Submission on the ToR of the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
by Fiona Hayward                                                    __________
Introduction: I am from a small town in regional Qld. In April 2020was severly
injured in a single-vehicle accident and we found ourselves catapulted into the middle of
Brisbane for six months while he underwent treatment & rehab at a Metro South Health
facility. During this time (Apr - Oct 2020) we experienced firsthand the early and frightening
impacts of Covid-19 (lockdowns, screening, quarantine etc).
I can only offer praise for the amazing frontline staff of the Metro South Facility who cared
                  until we were able to return home in late 2020.
Having experienced firsthand both metropolitan and regional aspects of the Covid response
I respectfully submit on the following ToR:

Governance:
- National Cabinet (est. March 2020)
"Adding in a policy of blanket secrecy about National Cabinet further constrains our ability
to hold governments accountable and undermines public trust."
Jacob Deem, CQUniversity Australia,
Jennifer Menzies, Griffith University

At the National Cabinet, the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers appear as
individuals in their role as leaders of their own executives, untethered from their other
positions as local members, parliamentarians and leaders of their respective political
parties.
A concern with National Cabinet is that
it shifts power further away from Parliament (the people's chosen representatives) and
towards individual leaders, who have not necessarily been elected by the people for their
suitability as Cabinet members.

This effective removal of a democratic selection process and the potential for individuals to
abuse Cabinet power and confidentiality (documents and deliberations are confidential and
exempt from freedom of information (FOI) requests) raises concerns and public suspicions
as to whose best interests Cabinet decisions might be representing.
Additionally, as an intergovernmental, not inter-parliamentary, body, members of the
National Cabinet are not collectively responsible to one Parliament, but individually
responsible to nine separate Parliaments. It cannot therefore be held to account
by collective cabinet responsibilitylo the Federal Parliament.*

Suggestion: Now Covid has abated, disband the Cabinet.
Should it be necessary to reconvene, assign representatives from State opposition
Members, along with State Premiers, OR include Senators from each State to provide more
balanced representation. Move away from Cabinet Confidentiality to allow transparency and
trust.
* https://www.auspublaw.org/blog/2020/10/the-national-cabinet-presidentialised-politics-
 power-sharing-and-a-deficit-in-transparency
Key Health Response Measures:

- More disclosure of accurate stastistics/information would have enabled properly informed
choices with regards to treatments/vaccines. Informed Consent is a fundamental
cornerstone of good medicine and particularly important when new or experimental
treatments are being considered (see link) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/
NBK430827/
Considering the Covid-19 vaccines were provisionally approved for emergency use only, a
large number of people (myself included) felt that information available was inadequate for
them to give informed consent. Information on vaccines made available through state and
federal public health websites and systems was very limited and also often confusing or
hard to access.

- Having the broadest range of COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments available would have
assisted with both prevention and treatment of the virus.

Examples: Encouraging adoption of proactive early intervention protocols for people
presenting Covid-positive in the early stages of infection. Well before vaccines were
available, early-intervention measures such as Frontline Covid Critical Care Alliance
protocols adopted in the USA (see attached link) were being utilised by some practitioners
with excellent results.

https://covid19criticalcare.com/protocol/i-care-early-covid-treatment/

Adopting a proactive early-intervention response not only has the potential to reduce length
and severity of symptoms in an individual thus reducing chances of infecting others, it also
has been shown to reduce hospital and ICU admissions, relieving pressures on the hospital
system.
A broad range of treatments (both preventative and for active infection) also provides
effective choices for those who for various reasons did not undergo Covid-19 emergency­
use-approved vaccinations.
Having the option to access varied safe and effective avenues of prevention and treatment
is simple common sense, and much excellent information & research (see links below) is
now available on the use and effectiveness of various Covid-19 treatments that can be used
to inform preparedness for the future.

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8884665/
https://www.mdpi.eom/2072-6643/15/11 /2639
https.7/c19ivm.org/meta.html
Broader Health Supports:

- Border closures impacted people in many negative ways but regarding health the impacts
were disasterous forthose who lived just across a State border but usually attended
medical facilities in the adjacent State.

Example - two noted instances of families in far northern NSW who were unable to seek
urgent medical care from the closest facilities (in QLD) due to border restrictions.
Confusion and onerous restrictions delayed and complicated the situation. In the best
interests of public health and democracy, interstate borders need to be open to (at the very
least) those who need medical assistance where the closest appropriate facility is across a
stWBordO: ?
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2020/aug/28/unborn-twin--baby-dies-after-
delay-approving-mothers-queensland-nsw-border-exemption

                                                    he was concerned border complications
were placing infants' and children's lives at risk.
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-08-20/tough-qld-border-restrictions-nsw-baby-refused-
vital-brain-scan/100393322



Transparency (Pfizer contracts,)                                   .            .      .

The secrecy and lack of transparency around the contract for Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines in
Australia has been a source of controversy and public suspicion. Australian citizens have a
right to know what contracts our Government has entered into, particularly when public
health, accountability, (and potentially a lot of taxpayers' money) is at stake. Pfizer's "secret
contracts" have raised much international criticism and our authorities in Australia must be
more transparent on future deals with such companies.

Pfizer formalized 73 deals for its coronavirus vaccine. According to Transparency
International, a London-based advocacy group, only five contracts have been formally
published by governments, and these with "significant redactions."

"Hiding contracts from public view or publishing documents filled with redacted text means
we don't know...what happens if things go wrong and the level of financial risk buyers are
absorbing,” said

https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2021 /10/19/secret-vaccine-contracts-with-
governments-pfizer-took-hard-line-push-profit-report-says/

https://www.citizen.org/article/pfizers-power/
