                          SUBMISSION COVER SHEET




                         Independent Education Union of Australia




   Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry

                             14 December 2023


Organisation:        Independent Education Union of Australia

Principal contact:   Brad Hayes

 osition:            Federal Secretary

Phone:

Email address:

Street address:      Unit11 &12
                     3-5 Phipps Close
                     Deakin ACT 2600

 ostal address:       0 Box 177
                     Deakin West ACT 2600

Submitted to:        COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce




                                                                    28 November 2023 | Page 1
The Independent Education Union (IEU) welcomes the opportunity to contribute to the Inquiry
into the Commonwealth Government's response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

The IEU represents employees in non-government education in all states and territories. Our
union's coverage spans early childhood education, faith-based schools, community colleges,
non-government institutions and post-secondary services. At the time of preparing this
submission, the IEU has 74,801 members. We are the only union with coverage of principals,
educational leaders, teachers, school support staff and early childhood professionals.

Our submission is informed by our members' experiences as they continued to work, teach,
and care for students throughout the pandemic in their essential worker roles.

The IEU has had the opportunity to read the submission prepared by the ACTU, and we
support the content of the ACTU submission.



                              Introductory Comments to the Inquiry


The Covid-19 pandemic imposed unprecedented challenges in all workplaces and across all
industries. Our nation's educational institutions, early childhood education centres and school
systems endured some of the most widespread and severe disruptions.

The pandemic posed unique threats within the education system to not only the health and
the safety of students and school staff, it also brought into focus the broader implications of
how school operations could impact community health and transmission of the virus.

Along with the health and prison sectors, schools constituted a particularly difficult and high-
risk setting. School communities involve interactions between hundreds, and sometimes
thousands, of staff and students for prolonged periods of time, and mainly located indoors.

While the pandemic was an international crisis, domestic governments had a critical
responsibility to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic by developing and deploying a
comprehensive public policy response. Unfortunately, the Commonwealth Government failed
in several critical areas within the education and schools sector.

Weaknesses in the regulation of non-government schools, enforceability of safety precautions
and inadequate workplace rights were exposed during the pandemic. Despite, for example,
the National Principles for School Education 2020, there were major disparities in arrangements
within the non-government sector and compared to state schools. The Principles sought "to
support the ongoing delivery of high quality education for all students during COVID-19".1 The
second Principle notes "..alternative flexible, remote delivery of education services may be
needed." In reality, arrangements varied greatly with some employers initially refusing remote
work or insisting remote learning was still delivered by school staff on-site.

Essential workers experienced some of the worst impacts of the pandemic, yet their safety
was at times compromised by employer inaction. All workers in all workplaces need access to
social protections including secure income, financial support and modernised leave
entitlements, which also aids in reducing inequities and public health risks during a pandemic.



1 https://www.education.gov.au/covid-19-national-principles. Our italics.
                                                                            28 November 2023 | Page 2
                          1.     Key Health Response Measures


Health and safety challenges in schools and early childhood services were complex; however,
an earlier and more decisive intervention by the Federal Government would have helped
alleviate risks and address serious safety hazards in the early months of the pandemic.

   1.1    Education employees were regarded as essential workers, and yet access to Covid
          vaccinations was limited and extremely difficult to access throughout a majority of
          the pandemic. Priority access to vaccinations should have been confirmed for
          education workers at the earliest possible stage. The IEU had also proposed that
          schools be considered for use as central vaccination hubs for staff and students.

   1.2    Despite the risk of Covid transmission in schools - a setting characterised by
          extensive personal contact between students, staff and parents - the supply of
          personal protective equipment (PPE) was manifestly inadequate. Adequate supplies
          of PN95 masks approved by the Therapeutic Goods Administration must be freely
          available in all schools. The Federal Government failed to provide any allocation of
          safety equipment to a sector that educates 35% of our nation's students.

   1.3    Similar to the failure to protect front-line education workers with basic TGA approved
          PPE, the Government was unable to source Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) for use in
          non-government schools or provide priority access for school staff. This failure
          contributed to delays in schools resuming normal operations and placed the onus on
          schools and individual staff members to try and source their own testing equipment
          at a time when tests were almost impossible to locate.



                         2.     Financial Support for Individuals


    2.1   The Federal Government's pandemic leave income support measures applied to
          very few IEU members given eligibility requirements. Instead, school and ECEC staff
          were required to use their limited personal leave in cases where they contracted
          Covid, where they were required to quarantine or where they needed to care for a
          family member. In many jurisdictions, our union was able to negotiate additional
          paid pandemic leave with individual employers; however, the vast majority of such
          leave has since been discontinued by employers.

          For IEU members in workplaces without pandemic leave, or where employees
          exhausted all of their other accrued leave, the pressure to return to work in order to
          continue to be paid became an understandable dilemma. The situation also had the
          potential to undermine public health directives around home isolation and 'close
          contact' requirements designed to limit the spread of the virus.

          The pandemic highlighted the need for consistent and enforceable minimum
          standards and a modernised safety net for all employees. The limitations of modest
          personal leave entitlements were obvious. The quantum of personal leave was not
          developed within the context of an international pandemic that was now requiring
          employees to be absent from work for extended periods.

                                                                      28 November 2023 | Page 3
         The National Employment Standards (NES) should be updated to include access to
         paid pandemic leave (in addition to personal leave) for all workers including casuals.



                 3.    Governance Responsibilities and Accountability


The pandemic exposed a number of deficiencies in the regulation of non-government schools,
the enforceability of safety precautions and the protection of workplace rights.

   3.1   A wide variety of employer responses were witnessed during the pandemic. While
         some employers worked constructively with staff and our union to develop
         comprehensive safety and operational plans, others failed to adhere to best-practice
         health protocols. Employers were often slow to implement new systems or amend
         school practices to minimise risks. Several employers failed to confirm necessary
         changes until forced by union action or formal dispute.

         Non-government education providers should be required to follow clear medical
         guidance designed to limit the spread of disease. This could include prohibitions on
         large staff/student gatherings, mandated remote work and teaching, modified school
         activities, compulsory risk assessment procedures and the installation of clean air
         equipment. While we appreciate the interaction between state and federal
         responsibilities as they pertain to health and education, we also note that the
         Federal Government funds the non-government school sector to the value of $16.7
                   )U   per year. It is reasonable for the Federal Government to be afforded
         greater oversight and compliance powers within the sector.

   3.2   One of the most common industrial disputes in schools during the pandemic related
         to the inability of employers to provide a safe workplace for medically vulnerable
         employees. Reasonable requests for remote work or flexible work arrangements
         designed to limit exposure for medically vulnerable staff were routinely and
         unilaterally dismissed by employers. We propose that the right to access flexible
         work arrangements under the Fair Work Act should explicitly include medically
         vulnerable employees working at the time of a pandemic.

   3.3   The significant workplace challenges caused by the pandemic reinforced the need
         for genuine consultation. Open communication with staff and their union leads to
         better decisions, greater transparency and a shared commitment to outcomes.

         While the pandemic imposed unforeseen difficulties on many occupations,
         employers who engaged in genuine consultative processes with employees were
         best placed to meet these challenges, while at the same time minimising adverse
         impacts on the working rights and conditions of employees.

         3.3.1   Consultation requirements should be expanded in the Fair WorkActto
                 specifically apply where employers seek to impose unpaid stand downs of
                 employees. Tougher threshold tests should also apply in such circumstances
                 to ensure all alternative options are exhausted and demonstrated to the
                 satisfaction of employees and their union. Penalties should apply to
                 employers who fail to comply with such requirements.

                                                                     28 November 2023 | Page 4
         3.3.2   Clearer interaction between government health directives, such as
                 vaccination requirements or mask wearing, and the industrial obligation of
                 employers should be confirmed in workplace consultation requirements.
                 There should be an unequivocal and explicit requirement for employers to
                 consult with employees and their union around how such government
                 directives are managed and implemented at the workplace level.



                 4.     Community Supports - Disrupted Student Learning


  4.1    Negative impacts on student learning were sadly inevitable during the pandemic.
         However, support for the development of digital learning programs and adequate
         access for students in regional or remote areas was frequently insufficient to
         maintain schooling connections. Of equal importance in mitigating the effects of
         disrupted education were measures implemented following a return to classrooms.
         Small-group tuition programs were established by New South Wales, South Australia
         and Victoria from 2020 on, but not implemented equitably across the nation.

         Federal co-ordination of the funding and implementation of these supports may
         reduce negative impacts and improve learning outcomes during a future public
         health or other emergency. New programs such as the Commonwealth's
                 Broc >a Jr :iat e should continue and be considered for expansion.



                 5.     IEU Recommendations for Government Action


As stated within the various elements of this submission, the IEU proposes:

    •    Education workers, along with other essential workers, be provided with immediate
         priority access to vaccination programs during declared health emergencies. (S.1.1)

    •    The Federal Government must assume responsibility for the provision of TGA
         approved personal protective equipment (PPE) and personal testing equipment to
         education workers during health emergencies. (S.1.2 & S.1.3)

    •    Paid pandemic leave be included as a standalone NES entitlement for employees
         (including casuals) during declared public health emergencies. (S.2.1)

    •    The Federal Government be afforded greater authority and enforcement capacity to
         oversee health and safety and school operational arrangements during a public
         health emergency in order to ensure compliance with health protocols. (S.3.1)

    •        The Commonwealth Government's National Principles for School Education should be
         revised to ensure that, at the level of policy and implementation, the work health
         and safety conditions for non-government education staff are on par with those in
         the government education sector during pandemics including in relation to remote
         work options and other safety precautions. (S.3.1)


                                                                    28 November 2023 | Page 5
Flexible work arrangements be available under the Fair Work Act for medically
vulnerable employees working at the time of a public health emergency. (S.3.2)

A tougher threshold test should also be required of employers prior to the
imposition of any unpaid standdown on their workforce. (S.3.3.1).

Consultation requirements should be strengthened to ensure genuine prior
discussions with employees and their union in relation to compliance with
government health directives, identification of workplace safety measures or
amended school operations resulting from events such as a pandemic (S3.3.2).

Greater federal co-ordination of funding and implementation of special education
supports and programs designed to reduce negative learning impacts should be
considered (S4.1).




                                                          28 November 2023 | Page 6
