Tuesday, 12 December 2023


submissions and evidence to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry

To whom it may concern,

I'm writing to express my deep concern regarding policies and measures, taken by Australian
government and health authorities during the COVID pandemic period.

Just this morning, it was brought to my attention that the Government, through the Department of
the Prime Minister and Cabinet, had issued a 'Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry'. Curiously, the deadline expires in three days - December 15th, 2023.

Tellingly, I haven't heard about it from the mass media; I cannot understand the urgency to terminate
consultation in the midst of the Christmas preparation season.

It is imperative that the Australin public get full disclosure and objective data analysis about the
efficacy of government (both local & national) policies, measures, and mandates during the
pandemic.

I have Deep concerns about the following issues:

- The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel is not an Independent Royal Commission, l.e, the same
policy makers are inquiring their own decisions. The Australian government should nominate, give
full access to data and legal powers to an Independent Royal Commission.

- Inquire the Efficacy of the vaccine, first presented as a safe measure, essential to avoid contraction,
later claimed to prevent transmission of the virus. Both misleading claims were proven untrue!

- Inquire the Efficacy of lockdowns, that deprived Australians of their constitutional right of freedom
of movement (locally, interstate and internationally) for lengthy periods

- Inquire the Vaccine mandate policies forced workers to get jabbed to keep their jobs, while
unvaccinated citizens lost employment and livelihood. All at a time when the claimed benefits of the
vaccine were proven to be futile!

- Inquire the Silencing/out casting of doctors and experts with dissenting professional opinions

- Inquire into the growing body of evidence regarding an unexplained jump in fatality rates in
Australia, NZ and worldwide, post the deadly phase of the pandemic. Full data should be released to
the public and pass independent professional scrutiny.

- Inquire the growing evidence of vaccine related injuries

- Assess the decision to offer the vaccine to children and pregnant women

- Inquire the effectiveness of financial, budgetary, and social policies implemented during the
pandemic
- Inquire the role of the mass media in disinforming the public, withfirst and foremost:
While blindly re-iterating government policies to the public, the media remained suspiciously silent
about the alarming signals, mentioned above.



In addition to the above, recently, it was brought to my attention that a Joint Standing Committee on
Treaties (JSCOT) is about to decide to speed up the review and adoption of the WHO International
Health Regulations (IHR) in May of 2024.

During the past three years and the emergence of the Covid pandemic, the Australian government
had taken a series of grave and misleading measures, guided by the WHO. These measures resulted
in serious harm to public health, wellbeing, and liberties.

The information provided to the public, that was based on the WHO guidelines, was proven incorrect
(l.e. that the 'vaccine' prevents contraction and spread of the virus, the vaccine being safe, etc.).

Giving an external, unelected, non-accountable, privately funded organization a mandate over
Australian public policy Is an extremely dangerous mistake that should not be approved!

If Australian public policy becomes bound by WHO decisions, this will undoubtedly result in the
following:

- Loss of independence and democratic liberties

- Loss of human rights

- Individual freedom and ability to make decisions over their own body and health

- Endangerment of livelihood, rising cost of living, loss of freedom of movement and occupation etc.

In conclusion:

Nominating an impartial independent professional commission is essential to provide the Australian
people full disclosure and assessment of the policies and decision-making processes during the
pandemic.

If the culprits are found responsible - they should be brought to justice and bare personal
consequences.

Kind regards,

Daniel Biro
