Government Inquiry Response

Friday 15th December 2023



To Whom it May concern

I have some questions I would like answered with this inquiry please.

How can a government body like AHPRA, who is responsible for ensuring safe effective science is
practised in health care, dictate what information passes between Dr and Patient?

They do not appear to be behaving in accordance with their code of conduct.

Why was a medical experimental procedure inflicted on us under threat of our employment?

Why did lockdowns occur when they have been examined tested and found to be unsuccessful?

Why did we get forced to wear masks when masks have been shown to be unsafe ineffective and
deleterious to health?

Why did our government ignore the lack of evidence for MRnA Vaccines being safe or effective
and push on with them.

Why does the government continue to publicise that MRnA Vaccines are required when they are
clearly unsafe, ineffective and causing many deadly side effects?

Why has our government given Pharmaceutical Companies Indemnity for many of their products?

Why was there a coverup of the gain of function research and the Wuhan Laboratory leaking the
virus?

Why were politicians given the right to refuse the covid injection and not the public?

Why can't we have open debate about the risks and benefits of the injection?

Why is questioning science deemed as misinformation if you are not aligned with the government
agenda?

Why are there so many more unexplained deaths in the last two years?

When will we have a proper inquiry and transparent discussion into the management of this so
called pandemic?

Why is moderna building a factory in Victoria when the vaccine has been shown to be safe and
effective?

Has moderna been given indemnity for drugs as yet untested?

What is going on with our government?

Do they have our health and best interests at heart? Are they listening to the evidence? And
Science?

Who has done a risk benefit assessment on these covid injections?

Where was our informed consent to the medical experiment?
What will happen to the multitude of vaccine injured people?
