I would like to submit a response requesting a proper Royal Commission and investigation
into the COVID response taken by this country, the processes taken by the government in the
procurement of the vaccines, the approval process by the TGA for granting emergency use
authorisation of the vaccines when other safer and effective options were available,
ineffective use of mask mandates, lockdowns, vaccine mandates, censoring of people who
didn't support the governments narrative, misinformation by the government and media
outlets, vaccine adverse event reporting, and the discrimination of those that are
unvaccinated.

This mandate has affected me in many ways both mentally, physically and financially.

I worked for Queensland Health at the Bundaberg Hospital for 14.5 years and have worked
my way to be one of the senior Physiotherapists at the Hospital. I have acted as the Director
of Physiotherapy many times in the past. This has now effectively stopped my career
progression and has ended my Physiotherapy career now with Queensland Health as I am
unable to work in the public setting.
The mandates meant that I was not able to work in my profession for 18 months or make any
income from my profession. I have struggled mentally to come to terms with being banned
from working in the profession that I love for making an educated and informed decision
about my own healthcare needs. Not being able to provide an income for my family was also
very mentally draining and stressful.

Prior to being told I cannot work at the hospital anymore, I applied for the only position above
my clinical position and was told that I had made merit for the interview process. The process
was halted once the mandate came into effect, and this may have caused me loss of future
income if I had been the successful candidate for the position.

I not only lost my ability to work, but also many of my friends due to the segregation and
discrimination for making an informed decision based on the available data and research. The
Queensland Government didn't provide any of the evidence, research, or data by which they
based their recommendations and mandates on when I asked.

There is no wonder that many clinicians are hesitant as the research is simply not being
provided for us to make those decisions.

I have also seen many of the adverse reactions happen to friends and work colleagues which
make me even more hesitant and stressed at the thought that the Government is trying to
force us to get the injection.

The hospital has now lost and experienced staff member that used to work in any area of
the hospital, used to train staff across the district and provide excellent care to the patients
that presented to the hospital. All of this is leading to poorer patient outcomes and service
delivery by the hospital.
