Covid-19 Response Inquiry Dec 2023 - How deliberate as to put a call out to Covid-19 responses for
only 2 weeks before Christmas 2023. Does the Government have any respect for the public and the
public's opinion? If the Government truly wanted a good look at the past to prepare for the future
you would give more time to listen to the public.

    1.   The overreach of Government has been a failure. You need to trust the people of this
         country. We are not children, we are not under guidance from a high priest.

    2. The lack of transparency from the government has been a failure. Government needs to
       understand that most people are educated. Most people fall for propaganda in the media.
       The Government needs to find a way on how to give people transparent information, even if
       the information is not great. The Government needs to stop hiding behind closed doors,
       away from the people they are meant to serve.

    3. The public needs to know about the secret contracts, where every dollar was spent and
       where it ended up. And be held accountable for the outcome of that money spent. So the
       same mistakes don't happen again.

   4. We need to learn how fear, media, isolation, can cause the human being to focus on only on
      one thing. This can break all pervious human bonds and connections like family. Then the
      Government thinks of a single solution, when there should be many solutions discussed in
      public and to not hype or make people panic for something that they cannot see or touch.
      Now you have created a population that is so focused that you have created a witch hunt.

    5. The idea to listen to other views on the topic at the Government level or National Cabinet
       level has been a complete failure. Anyone who had qualifications in the area, but had a
       different idea was silenced. They Government needs to tackle this better. Ideas are good
       things, discussion is a good thing. We have to ability to solve complex problems. Leaving it to
       one Government body is not a good idea. People also need to know that ideas can change
       over time as more is learned over time. Not to be afraid to discuss again.

    6. The Government has been corrupted by invested interest. 96% of the funding that supports
       the TGA comes from the drug companies, which the TGA regulator is meant to regulate.
       How can anyone trust anything coming from a drug company that has a track record of
       being untruthful to make a profit? To read the drug companies own papers and expect them
       to be honest? This needs to be fixed. The TGA needs to go and an independent body needs
       to be the regulator. Independent of other countries or the WHO or the CDC or the FDA etc.

    7. Next time, the response should be more targeted to the at risk populations. Very early on it
       was known that the younger population could handle covid-19 and it should have been left
       to circulate through the younger population. Creating a very quick immunity for the older
       population. This would have made the delay of the pandemic and lock downs shorter and
       the disruption to society a lot less. This would have saved lives.

    8. Business should have been allowed to do Business as usual. Business have ways to create
       practical and quick solutions to problems that would have benefited the public. If the public
       was not satisfied, then the business would more than likely have no customers. The public
       would have driven each business to do what was practical.
9. Vaccine mandates were the most horrible thing I have experienced in my life time. The
   Government divided the community. People have the right to have a choice as to what is put
   into their own bodies. I will never forget this and I will be teaching my children about this
   and spending my life wanting to create change. This wound that the Government has
   created will never go away, not matter what war or shit that is on the TV. The Government
   have awoken something great. And we will keen nudging.

10. Review of the role of AHPRA and ATAGI. This organisations are not independent. They do
    not serve the public's interest. They need to be held accountable for all the money spent on
    them and the outcomes they achieve. Every dollar spent.

11. Lock downs and mask mandates were all fear bases. Delaying the pandemic and dragging it
    out. If people want to wear a mask, then they will chose themselves to wear a mask. If
    people want to not travel, then they will chose to not travel. If the virus was that dangerous
    we the public would have done this. You need to trust the public to look after themselves.

12. The fear and Lies in the Media were all propaganda. Some from the drug companies
    themselves to try to sell their product. The Government needs to do better than this. You
    cannot bow to the Media and think that everyone who watches something believes what
    they have seen. We know how advertising works. We know how the media want a headline
    to be dramatic so people read the news. The Government needs to find a way to have some
    back bone and not bend over every time a story is uncomfortable or makes the Government
    look bad. If you always tell the Truth then the population will Trust the Government and not
    the media spin. You also need to be Transparent and not tell the half Truth.

13. The emergency use powers to put things in place like lock downs, mandates, new vaccines.
    The emergency use powers was only meant to be used for 2 weeks. Any longer and this is
    not an emergency any more. The laws need to be updated so the Government can't keep
    rolling the emergency power and sign it every month and keep it rolling over and over again.
    This was a mistake.

14. New Vaccines, new technology, not tested properly. Not given the time (which would have
    been years) to see outcomes. Not independently tested. The risk outweighed the benefits
    for the majority of the population. By this time everyone was filled with so much fear and
    isolation, that people took this risk willingly, thinking it was the only way out. The drug
    companies saw an opportunity to make a profit.

15. There was no option for a protein based vaccine. Why was as this dragged out? Why was
    this only coming from an America company? Why was Nikolai Petrovsky protein based
    Vaccine never approved? What bias does the Government have against the company
    Vaxine? Why has funding for many years been withheld from this company but given to
    other universities? Universities which have no outcomes from any of the public money. Lack
    of transparency, invested interest, in the boys club?

16. Silencing of doctors by AHPRA. The interference in the doctor patient relationship. Again The
    Government needs to trust the public to make their own decisions. Patient need to be able
    to see all risks and side effects and listen to the opinion of their doctor, without out the
    doctor living in fear of losing their job.
