Date: 15 December 2022


To:   Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, PO Box 6500, Canberra ACT 2600


Re:   Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Terms of Reference


Dear Officer,


Introduction: The Department of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet (the Department) have invited
submissions for the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
This is a submission by                former employee                                         a
business. Australia holds obligations and is a signatory to various international human rights treaties and
covenants.


Executive Summary Australia as a nation is founded on the rule of law and has a strong common law
and jurisprudential tradition of protecting the rights and freedoms of individuals. Fundamental elements
of our Governance structure and laws serve to protect these rights and freedoms, including the
separation of powers between the judiciary and the executive and the Principle of Legality, which
ensures that legislation should not infringe fundamental rights and freedoms unless the legislation
expresses a clear intention to do so, and the infringement is reasonable.


Domestically, Australia has comprehensive statutory frameworks in place intended to protect the right
of Australian citizens to privacy, as well as the right to equal treatment and freedom from
discrimination. The High Court has found that the Constitution contains an implied freedom of political
communication, and there remains some open questions as to whether other rights, such as freedom of
movement, are protected as well (via prohibitions on restrictions of trade between States, for example).


On the international stage, Australia has asserted itself as among the leaders in becoming a party to and
advocating for the core international treaties and covenants. Australia was one of only eight nations
involved in drafting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In addition, Australia as a nation is a
party to the seven-core international human rights treaties.



My employment was terminated on the^^^^^^|2022, a direct result of myself rejecting an order by
my employer^^^^^ to agree and submit to having the Covid 19 vaccinations. (C-19 V) which I believe
to be in breach of my human right.1


Several rights protections have been enshrined into Australian domestic law, and the Australian Human
Rights Commission, itself enacted by statute, is tasked with defending the rights obligations of


                                                                                        Page 1 of 3
Australian citizens whether those rights are enshrined in domestic statute. It is worth noting that the
AHRC Act itself includes several of the international human rights conventions which Australia is party
to, and which the Act's definition of 'human rights' refers to, within it.


During the 'lockdowns' when the public emergencies were in place, I was directed to continue in my
current role with full endorsement of my employer with a skeleton staff of H I maintained daily
operations at the location                       Manager and worked exceedingly hard, undertook
multiple roles and worked long hours whilst 30 other employees were stood down on job keeper
payments. There was no request, order or stipulation at this time to have a C-19 V. I commenced
employment at this company in^^Hwhich equates to Hyears of dedicated loyal service." To be
terminated from my work, left without employment and income at^Byears of age, removed from
opportunities and future plans, having to sell my house to avert financial disaster, being subjected to
total humiliation and discrimination, this action violated my human rights.


I believe in my situation The Australian Human Rights Commission, a statutory body established by
the Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986 (the AHRC Act) did nothing to protect my human
rights or fulfill its function for myself being an Australian citizen. I was left undefended, unrepresented
and bewildered. The Commission was unresponsive.1" I felt that I was living in a country that simply
didn't care. I was shocked and in disbelief at what was happening. I had strong belief and respect for our
systems fairness, equity and integrity.


When finally, my employer mandated C-19 V, which I vehemently disagreed with. Various domestic
statutes, such as the Guardianship Act 1987 (NSW), the Mental Health Act 2007 No 8 (NSW) and
the Victorian Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 (VIC) contain definitions of the
concept that are generally analogous. The latter, for example, has the following definition: "A person
must not be...subjected to medical or scientific experimentation without his or her full, free or informed
consent".


This is, again, an example of a human right which Australia has covenanted into via an international
treaty which has been enshrined into our domestic law. The principle is also reflected in the many
regulations that inform both the medical and legal professions in this country. For example, the Code of
Conduct for doctors' states unequivocally that "informed consent is a person's voluntary decision about
medical care that is made with knowledge and understanding of the benefits and risks involved".


I requested a risk assessment on adverse effects of the C-19 V from^^^^^^v and was provided with a
4-page document on transmission risks? I attended a GP tele health appointment requesting
information on C-19 V adverse effects and an exemption to this treatment which was firmly denied.
            declared that a workplace survey had been undertaken by all employees in which

                                                                                         Page 2 of 3
vaccination status was required. Finally, I was instructed to comply with this directive to have the C-19 V
or be terminated?1 Subsequently I was stood down without pay on^^^^^^^|2021 and terminated
on^^^^H2022.vn


Law Reform Commission states that "Informed consent refers to consent to medical treatment and the
requirement to warn of material risk prior to treatment. As part of their duty of care, health
professionals must provide such information as is necessary for the patient to give consent to
treatment, including information on all material risks of the proposed treatment. Failure to do so may
lead to civil liability for an adverse outcome, even if the treatment itself was not negligent". There are
many other examples.


With respect to Privacy and C-19 I saw my employer a nd                                                  intrude into
the private medical histories and information of myself and of other employees, with no regard for the
Australian Privacy Principles, enshrined in the Privacy Act 1988 which provide stringent restrictions and
conditions on the collection and storage of this information.^^!instructed each business operating
within its precinct to comply and provide names of each staff member and their C-19 V status. As
^^^^^^^^^|Manager I was directed to do this on their                       internal portal, in which I refused. I
discussed this with my State Manager, I believed a violation of privacy was being committed and further,
I felt bullied and pressured to adhere from the ongoing ^Hemails and phone calls. Late                          a Iso
used their HR portal called^^^^^|where all employees have access. They were directed to enter
their C-19 V status on their private log-in, which was monitored by HR as I was contacted re those
individuals who had not complied to this directive.


Sincerely,




' Termination of Employment: (Evidential Documentation Exists)
" Certificate of Service: (Evidential Documentation Exists)
"'^^^^^HHuman Rights Discrimination Form:(Evidential Documentation Exists)
iv Response from^Hre Risk Assessment: (Evidential Documentation Exists)
v Risk Assessment Ranking: (Evidential Documentation Exists)
vi Show Cause Letter:(Evidential Documentation Exists)
vii Termination of Employment and Show Cause Outcome:(Evidential Documentation Exists)




                                                                                               Page 3 of 3
