             Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
I am a citizen of Australia who has investigated and followed closely many aspects of the COVID-19
pandemic and have become very concerned about the way it has been handled by our government,
regulatory, and health agencies.

Any investigation into COVID-19 MUST thoroughly examine the claim that the COVID-19 vaccines that
were mandated for many people in Australia were "safe and effective" as claimed. The only way to
rebuild trust in government and public health institutions is to publish anonymised record-level data
that will prove this claim conclusively.

    1.   COVID-19 "vaccines" using a novel technology that has never been used in a wide-scale
         rollout were released to the public without long-term (> 6 months) safety data and analysis.
    2.   A determined campaign was mounted to inject ALL eligible people with these new
         "vaccines". This included mandated occupations (loss of job and career if people chose not to
         get vaccinated), and periods of time where services were declined to people without proof
         of vaccination.
    3.   There appears to be significant reluctance for health authorities, having collected a
         significant amount of data from the vaccination program, to release or publish this data in a
         way that demonstrates that the vaccines have been safe and effective as claimed. This is
         HIGHLY suspicious.

Anonymised record-level data was leaked into the public domain by a whistleblower in NZ recently
who was responsible for collection and analysis of this data. On seeing very disturbing trends, he
attempted to alert management and political leaders but was ignored. The way it has been handled
by authorities in NZ reinforces the perception that there IS something significant they are trying to
hide from public view.

Anonymised record-level data quickly demonstrates and proves the longer-term safety of
vaccination. Please refer to this article by Norman Fenton (from the UK) who is a highly trained
professor emeritus from the UK who has outlined what is required and how the data can be
analysed.

https://open.substack.eom/pub/wherearethenumbers/p/the-data-we-need-from-the-ons-to
