                                                                                    Head Office, Building 1
                                                                                    11 Sir Donald Bradman Drive
                                                                                    Keswick Terminal
                                                                                    Adelaide, South Australia 5000

15 December 2023



Submission in response to the Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 Response
Inquiry


Introduction
The Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) welcomes the opportunity to provide feedback to the
Commonwealth Government on the COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
For more than 20 years, ARTC’s focus has been on facilitating the movement of people and freight across
Australia, playing a critical role within the national supply chain. This was particularly critical and widely
recognised during the COVID-19 pandemic.
From the outset of the pandemic, the freight and transport industry was deemed an essential service by
Australian governments. With demand for predictable and reliable deliveries of freight more important than
ever, ARTC’s people worked around the clock to help move critical supplies across the country to keep
shelves stocked, maintain confidence in the delivery of our exports, and ensure Australia’s supply chain
remains intact.
The importance of an effective, resilient, unencumbered national supply chain in day-to-day life, as well as in
times of national disruption, has never been as universally recognised as it is now. Noting the unprecedented
circumstances in which the pandemic served, the actions taken by governments at both a Federal and State
level, as well as by industry, must be acknowledged and viewed as valuable lessons that will enable greater
preparedness in future crises or national disruption.
Furthermore, with the rapidly changing environment impacting permit systems, different border closures,
sporadic lockdowns, and unclear definitions of what roles and industries were deemed ‘essential’, added
significantly to the existing burdens that facilitates interoperability for rail operators and infrastructure
managers.


Background
ARTC is proud of the vital role we play in Australia’s transport supply chain and in the economic
development of the nation. As one of the country’s largest Rail Infrastructure Managers, ARTC maintains
and operates 8,500km of the national rail network across five states, managing the transit of around 450
trains per day across New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia.
We employ more than 2,000 people and continue to invest in Australia’s future prosperity and growth
through the delivery of transport infrastructure projects which enhance the safety, reliability and efficiency of
our rail network.
Each day our network transports intermodal containers, agricultural products, general freight and passenger
services, as well as hundreds of thousands of tonnes of coal and minerals. We efficiently get freight off roads
and reduce congestion, which improves our environment and increases the safety of motorists and local
communities.
We continue to meet the changing needs of our customers and are committed to the health and safety of our
people, the environment and the local communities in which we operate.


Australian Rail Track Corporation                                                                       Page 1 of 5
ARTC

Initiatives undertaken during the pandemic:
ARTC actively worked with the Federal Government and health authorities throughout the duration of the
pandemic to develop, implement and adhere to strict measures to protect the health and safety of our people
and the local communities in which we operate, while ensuring the safe and effective operation of our rail
network.
Some of the key initiatives undertaken as part of our response to the pandemic, included:

     •    Formation of a Pandemic Response Group and Crisis Management Team, including cross-business
          representation
     •    Participated in regular State and Federal Government briefings, specific to transport and supply
          chains (eg. Freight branch at TfNSW, WA all Government briefings etc)
     •    Engaged extensively with customers / rail operators to discuss the rapidly changing environment and
          the implementation of initiatives within ARTC
     •    Creation of an information hub for staff, as well as regular updates and support of our people
          throughout
     •    Activated business continuity plans and controls, including immediate measures to isolate critical
          areas such as our Network Control Centres and Asset teams to ensure continuity of critical services
          throughout the pandemic
     •    Adhered to all government and health advice regarding travel restrictions, border closures, social
          distancing, personal hygiene practices and working from home where it was practical to do so
     •    Developed and implemented a Workforce Recovery Strategy to anticipate issues and scenarios and
          help guide return-to-workforce decision making as government restrictions were lifted
     •    Employee survey was also undertaken to garner feedback about workplace changes in response to
          COVID-19.


Impact to ARTC:
ARTC saw increased challenges within our economic environment with the additional unique circumstances
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Within the non-coal segment, COVID-19 resulted in increased demand
for a range of consumer staples leading to increased interstate freight volumes and revenue.
The rapid onset of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a substantial amount of work to be reprioritised and
operationalised to ensure the safe and reliable movement of freight across Australia. Continuous
adjustments were made to enable critical maintenance (such as rail track tamping, rail replacement, ballast
renewal, compliance checks and other general track maintenance repairs required to keep the network
operational) in a safe manner while also effectively supporting customers in the delivery of freight was an
overarching priority.
As an essential service ARTC successfully mobilised and continued to deliver high volumes of freight across
the country with no significant outages or shutdowns due to COVID-19.


Importance of a resilient and interoperable supply chain:
Ensuring effective and resilient rail infrastructure is one of ARTC’s core responsibilities and essential to
ensuring a robust and reliable supply chain network. Throughout the pandemic, it was imperative that
Australia’s rail network remained open for business to ensure customers and communities around the
country were able to access food, medicine and other essential items in a timely manner.



Australian Rail Track Corporation                                                                       Page 2 of 5
ARTC

ARTC advocates for greater freight being moved on rail, and in order to maximise modal shift opportunities,
it is critical that freight supply chains provide reliable and resilient service capabilities. The resilience of
supply chain networks, including those of ARTC, which has been significantly impacted by adverse weather
events, will enable secure operations that will build on our international competitiveness in meeting the
demand of domestic and global economies.
Additionally, the challenges faced by rail operators and rail infrastructure managers throughout the pandemic
significantly exacerbated the existing issues associated with the lack of rail interoperability (i.e. consistency
between rail systems, networks and jurisdictions, as well as aligned training and accreditation for rail
workers). Following the decision by Australian governments to focus on rail interoperability as a National
Cabinet priority, ARTC has prioritised supporting the resolution of this constraint by working closely with the
National Transport Commission and state jurisdictions on developing a truly efficient national rail network
that effectively facilitates each operator, regulator and rail infrastructure manager interacting with the other
optimally.


Challenges faced by ARTC & pandemic preparedness considerations:
Essential workers
During the pandemic, States and Territories released varying lists of roles that were considered ‘essential’,
which allowed individuals to leave their homes during lockdown periods to undertake urgent / key work
essential for safety, repairs and to maintain essential services and supplies to the community.
Most states divided the essential services and workers into eight general categories, including emergency
service workers, food service workers, utility workers, public workers, education and social care workers,
broadcasting (media and telecommunications) workers and transport and logistics workers.
It was clear from the early stages of the pandemic that Network Controllers were considered essential
workers, however it was not as clear for many of ARTC’s other staff that were key to running and maintaining
the rail network. The category of ‘Transport and Logistic Workers’ enabled the many Network Controllers
employed by ARTC to run our Interstate and Hunter Valley networks to leave home and attend the control
centres to undertake their work. However, there was a level of ambiguity to this category that varied between
the different State Governments that did not immediately or intuitively apply to other key roles such as
provisioning centre staff, specialist rail engineers and other track maintainers.
Considering this, it is recommended that the Commonwealth Government lead the development of a pre­
populated list of all essential roles with a level of detail that leaves little room for misinterpretation. This list
should be shared with industry for consultation before finalisation and applied in future crisis / national
disruption scenarios.
Essential industries
As stated by the Law Council of Australia’s COVID-19: Essential Services and Workers fact sheet ( ik), the
Commonwealth Government does not maintain a public, agreed definition of ‘essential services’ or ‘essential
workplaces’. Both of these terms were described rather than defined, derived from the measures
implemented by the National Cabinet, being the Prime Minister, the Premiers of the States and the Chief
Ministers of the Territories.
During the early stages of the pandemic, the construction industry was unable to operate due to many States
and Territories considering it not essential. This posed several challenges for ARTC as we were constructing
several sections of new rail track.
The broad categorisation of ‘construction’ led to confusion on the continuity of infrastructure projects
essential to stimulating and growing the economy, especially during events (e.g. pandemic) that stifle

Australian Rail Track Corporation                                                                             Page 3 of 5
ARTC

economic activity. In particular, significant challenges were faced when initial works were being undertaken
in the construction on the brownfield sections of our network, including the Botany Rail Duplication (BRD)
near Sydney Airport and the Cabramatta Loop Project (CLP) in Western Sydney. Additionally, we also
experienced challenges commissioning a major rail project (the $235 million North East Rail Line Project in
Victoria), when we required skilled interstate workers to go to Victoria to undertake critical signalling and
commissioning works.
As a result, ARTC recommends the Commonwealth Government develop a national definition of what is
considered ‘essential services’ and ‘essential workplaces’, including with regards to ‘construction’ activities,
to allow industry to fully understand their responsibilities and effectively plan in times of future crises or
pandemics.
Inter-state permit systems
Widespread closures of State borders resulted in extremely challenging situations for all Australians during
the pandemic. Each State and Territory Government issued their own requirements and permit systems /
application processes which were often confusing and ambiguous.
ARTC had multiple dedicated corporate support staff members allocated to navigating the various
application / permit systems that differed between each state, to apply for permits for essential rail track
maintenance staff and contractors who were required to cross borders as part of their work.
It became a challenge for ARTC as the permit system was not always understood by State Police who were
reviewing the permits at the border crossings, which meant that if a Policy member did not think the person
who held the permit was ‘essential’, they could refuse entry or send them to hotel quarantine. There was a
lack of understanding, coordination, governance and consistency in this process between various State
Governments and their Police forces and resulted in some staff being forced into hotel quarantine incorrectly
and key rail work not being completed in time.
It is recommended that the Commonwealth Government consider a national permit solution for any future
border closures that is agreed to by all States and Territories. This would ensure a consistent approach and
greater understanding for those applying for them, as well as those who are responsible for granting or
assessing them.
Vaccination requirements
Vaccination requirements throughout the pandemic were sporadic and inconsistent between States and
Territories. Noting this was largely due to the initial limited supply and prioritisation requirements, ARTC
recommends the Commonwealth Government develop a best practice framework or guideline that provides
appropriate steps and governance to distributing vaccinations in future potential pandemics.
Additionally, ARTC faced significant challenges in gaining access for staff members based in regional
locations gaining access to vaccinations in the early stages of the vaccination rollout due to geographical
constraints. Consideration should be given to how future vaccinations or required medicine is distributed
more evenly between regional and metropolitan locations.
Access to testing
Similar to the access issues associated with vaccinations in the early stages of the pandemic, access to
adequate testing was a challenge for ARTC. It is recommended that where possible and when appropriate,
the Commonwealth Government make early purchases of testing apparatuses and prioritise access of these
tests to essential workers and industries.




Australian Rail Track Corporation                                                                       Page 4 of 5
ARTC

 Recommendations Summary:
      1.   ARTC recommends that the Commonwealth Government develop a pre-populated list of all
           essential roles with a level of detail that leaves little room for misinterpretation. This list should
           be shared with industry for consultation before finalisation and applied in future crisis / national
           disruption scenarios.
      2.   As a result, ARTC recommends the Commonwealth Government develop a national definition of
           what is considered ‘essential services’ and ‘essential workplaces’, including with regards to
           ‘construction’ activities, to allow industry to fully understand their responsibilities and effectively
           plan in times of future crises or pandemics.
      3.   ARTC recommends that the Commonwealth Government consider a national permit solution for
           any future border closures that is agreed to by all States and Territories. This would ensure a
           consistent approach and greater understanding for those applying for them, as well as those
           who are responsible for granting or assessing them.
      4.   ARTC recommends the Commonwealth Government develop a best practice framework or
           guideline that provides appropriate steps and governance to distributing vaccinations in future
           potential pandemics.
      5.   ARTC recommends that where possible and appropriate, the Commonwealth Government make
           early purchases of testing apparatuses and prioritise access of these tests to essential workers
           and industries.




Australian Rail Track Corporation                                                                          Page 5 of 5
