COVID Response inquiry/consultation

As an individual who was subjected to being coerced into
having COVID vaccines due to corporate mandates and
receiving vaccine adverse reactions. I feel that the country is
owed a Royal Commission into the handling of this ongoing
pandemic.

The Government needs to address all the following points in the
inquiry.

1. Not accepting the laboratory origin of SARS-CoV-2 despite
overwhelming evidence and failure to take steps to prevent this
catastrophe from repeating itself i.e Gain of function research
that is still happening.

2. Unable to properly evaluate the quality, safety and efficacy
of the COVID-19 “vaccines” prior to release to the public.
Especially now that under FOI the final       documents are
available to the public.

3. Did not ensure that an efficient, transparent, user-friendly
and conflicted adverse event reporting system was in place for
the public to access.

4. Still no acknowledgement for the need to investigate the rise
in unexpected, non-Covid Excess Deaths which commenced
only after the rollout of the Covid “vaccines”. Investigations of
unexplained deaths possibly related to the vaccines need to
have an autopsy.

5. Government policies need to be investigated regarding
masks, lockdowns, school closures, travel restrictions and
vaccine mandates have been shown to be useless and
counterproductive - Australia suffered more than most other
countries.
6. Doctors and experts censored by AHPRA and ATAGI were
unable to formulate proper medical advice - ie early treatment
was banned, ill-advised ventilation/over use of opioids and
remdesivir, ignorance of the importance of natural immunity,
demonisation of therapeutics shown to be effective (ivermectin,
hydroxychloroquin, inhaled steroids, vitamin D etc.)

7. An inquiry is needed in regards to the Official misinformation
and false claims made for the “vaccines”: prevents infection,
prevents transmission of infection, “pandemic of the
unvaccinated”, children need to be vaccinated and are at
significant risk and the vaccines keep you out of hospital.

8. The State leaders did not critically assess and investigate:
No cost-benefit analysis, no discrimination for age or individual
health status for vaccination, blind acceptance of modelling
advice from highly conflicted institutions and individuals.

9. International human rights were not observed, use of
coercion to force vaccination, the lack of informed consent and
interference in the essential principle of the doctor-patient
relationship was ignored.

10. Proper and critical assessment of the PGR test which was
set to a sensitivity so high as to produce meaningless results
and not be diagnostic for COVID-19.

In conclusion a royal commission into the pandemic should also
question whether unelected health officials be able to wield
power as they did during the pandemic, with little weight given
to the economic and mental health of citizens.

Could it be that a need for a constitutional change is required to
ensure the states and territories better coordinate their
responses, rather than going off in eight different directions, like
what happened with border closures and people being
apprehended and unable to see dying family members
