I write this submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry to voice
my criticisms of the lack of common sense, and failure of following existing law designed to protect
Australians in everyday and emergency situations.

From the start of the “pandemic”, Australia was swept up in the fear propaganda hyped up by the
media. Instead of following our existing flu protocols, Australia was shut down, without much
concern for the ability of affected individuals to feed their families or pay bills. Our production was
stopped. What government intentionally stops production? It is economic stupidity, even suicide.

Children, who were at very low risk of contracting or spreading the covid-19 flu, were prevented
from going to school. This has had a massive impact on the learning, socialisation, development and
mental health of all young people.

I have | children,                                 2020. Our eldest struggled to complete her senior
years through lockdowns, internalised the trauma and still suffers from mental health issues and
social isolation. We are still struggling to find her appropriate help. Our youngest was denied a
normal year          missed out on many practical subjects, has fallen behind academically and isn’t
motivated to leam. Lockdowns broke the routine of school-based learning, community, engagement
and drive. It told kids that adults didn’t think they were important.

Government responses from March 2020, were unconstitutional and illegal.
1. People were prevented from free unhindered travel within their own country. This is a
constitutional right that we all have.
2. People were prevented from earning a living in their chosen profession. This is a war crime under
the Nuremberg Code!
3. The National Cabinet operated as an illegal and undemocratic body making decisions affecting
all Australians. This body has never been agreed to by the Australian people via a referendum, and
is quasi-govemment. It effectively by-passed democratic process and inquiry throughout 2020­
2022, both at State and Federal levels.
It also allowed the Scott Morrison & the Federal Government to claim that they “would not be
mandating vaccinations,” while getting the States to do their dirty work and do so.
4. The States dictated Public Health Orders, which required employees to get COVID-19
vaccinations, or else be terminated. These vaccine “mandates” were not even legislated! The
vaccination mandates were in breach of Section 51.23a of our Constitution: the right to refuse a
medical procedure. Yet the Federal Health Department has since claimed that “no-one was forced to
get vaccinated!” I beg to differ!
Section 109 of the Constitution also states, that “When a law of a State is inconsistent
with a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail, and the former shall, to the extent
of the inconsistency, be invalid.”

I lost my career                                 for asking for the Material Safety Data Sheet and
Risk assessment of the COVID-19 vaccinations, as was my right as
                       under Victoria’s OH&S Act. These document were never provided to me, or
any other employee in Australia, yet thousands of us were terminated for acting lawfully.
Where is the justice in this? None of us have been re-instated. Australia effectively performed a
demotion of the intellectuals. Many of us have had to get by since doing menial jobs like cleaning,
labouring or gardening, earning way less than our previous wages. Anyone who dared to ask
questions was bullied by management, then fired. There was no legal opportunities for due process,
as the legal profession sided with the Government and upheld the firings at all Fair Work and Work
Safe hearings.
The key health response measures were the opposite of the common sense response to a cold &
flu epidemic, and a total failure. Instead of promoting health raising measures including fresh air
and exercise, sunshine, healthy eating, natural preventative measures and socialisation (which
boosts happy hormones and thereby our immunity), the Government did the opposite & locked us
inside our houses for 2 years, preventing us from seeing friends and family. We were punished and
our freedoms taken away, until the “solution” was presented, which we were all supposed to accept
to regain our freedoms.
The COVID-19 “vaccinations” were a rushed trial-phase medical experiment performed live on the
whole population. Any ethical trial would never do this. Particularly not when the early-phase trials
demonstrated that the “vaccinations” were neither safe nor effective. Early data coming from Israel,
the US & the UK before their introduction in Australia showed that the hospitalisation and death
rates were higher in the vaccinated than the unvaccinated. Yet our Governments and leaders lied to
us on a daily basis, claiming it was a “pandemic of the unvaccinated”, shaming anyone who
questioned these poison shots, and turning public opinion against anyone deemed hesitant, despite
our legitimate concerns. Since the early roll-out from July to December 2021, we witnessed the start
of the real pandemic, of vaccine injuries ranging from heart failure, strokes, neurological problems,
                                         the list goes on and on, and a massive 15% increase in all­
cause mortality in 2022. Where is the inquiry into this? Where are the real medical answers and
support for anyone afflicted by these vaccine injuries? Where is the compensation for the families
of those who lost loved ones, many dying well before their time in their teens, twenties, thirties or
forties?

I also wish to request that a Full Royal Commission into the Commonwealth Response to COVID
be undertaken, with expanded terms of reference, to include the full effects, and potential criminal
liability for those responsible. Our leaders must be held accountable.

The lessons from the past 4 years are that government should stop interfering in people’s lives and
just provide the conditions for people to get on with being productive, supportive, caring
communities. Provide us with infrastructure, decent roads, good quality health care & hospitals that
aren’t obsessed with testing for the cold & flu virus before they’ll treat you, well resourced and
staffed schools that teach a range of skills & academics and not ideology, quality aged care that’s
not for profit, lower taxes and less regulation. Affordable housing, not the rediculous system we
have now that’s propped up by negative gearing and investment and only allows the rich to own
homes.

You want to know why your public opinion rating is so low? Because the ruling class of Australia
has failed its citizens for decades. This is no longer the country of the fair go. Life is getting harder,
not better, for most of us. We’re sick of it.
So I dare you to all do something about it.

Thank you
