I am dismayed that the Australian Government has been responsible for causing severe harm to
many of its citizens, and even worse, the death of enormous numbers of innocent people who were
duped and coerced into believing that they were taking the injection to protect themselves and their
communities.

Australians need ANSWERS to the following points. A whitewash investigation will not do. A
Royal Commission must investigate the whole situation properly to give the Australian people the
answers they need

   •   There was no evidence supplied to the public to prove the safety or efficacy of these
       injections because there was insufficient time for either to be thoroughly investigated. The
       normal cycle of bringing a new product to market is a minimum of 10 years, according to
       many respected industry commentators in the pharmaceutical research and development
       field.
   •   The MRNA technology was a brand new technology in human medicine that during earlier
       experimental trials using animals, had resulted in many deaths of the animal subjects,
       particularly when exposed to wild viruses. Despite this, it was given Emergency Use
       Authorisation by the US Federal Drug Administration, which is not equivalent to passing the
       new drug through their normal system with the all the normal checks and balances to ensure
       safety and efficacy.
   •   Given that Australia was one of the founding signatories to the Nuremberg Convention, the
       fact that vaccine mandates were issued is in breach of Point 1 of the Nuremberg code.
   •   Practitioners, who facilitated these injections, were unable to get informed consent because
       they had no information to supply to their patients, again breaching the Nuremberg code.
   •   The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the MRNA
       injections and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession. I know a
       practitioner who was coerced into taking the injection himself, despite not wanting to do so.
   •   Imposing mask mandates despite credible proof that masks do not work. There are many
       publicly available research papers that prove this and show the harm caused by restricting
       breathing in the general population and the psychological and educational harm that wearing
       masks, and no longer able to see faces properly, inflicted on children.
   •   Harm to people’s livelihoods, harm to the economy, mental health issues with many leading
       to suicide, disruption of the education system, and supply chain issues caused by lockdowns
       have damaged the finances of Australia.
   •   The duty of care that a government has to its electorate, is to ensure that any
       recommendations coming from the government are thoroughly investigated and are always
       in the best interests of the country and its people. Anything other than that is in breach of
       office. Denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured and ignoring the massive
       excess mortality rates being witnessed around the world and in Australia, are also in breach
       of office. The data release by the New Zealand whistleblower, shows conclusively, the
       excess mortalities resulting from this medical experiment, in breach of many of the codes
       contained within the Nuremberg Convention

Anything less than a Royal Commission into the above would been seen as an insult to the
population as well as be acting in Breach of Office.

The recommendations arising from the Royal Commission may go some way to restore confidence
in the government and in the Medical/Pharmaceutical system.
