I believe the COVID-19 global trial experimental vaccine was an insult to the people of
Australia. We were treated like we had no intelligence and we expected to be coerced
to comply with medication that was publicly documented as having failed in its trials.

I don’t know how it passed the authorities??

I firmly believe that a Royal Commission is needed to investigate how this covid virus
was handled in Australia

Never before has a whole nation been ordered to take a particular vaccine against their
personal wishes or in order to keep their employees happy. Since when did a builder,
plumber, electrician, roof tiler need a vaccine to keep his job.

Besides it destroyed the patient- doctor relationship where the doctor cared and wanted
the best outcome for his patient. It became more an issue how many can I persuade
today and earn myself some money on the side. Or the case of                  who
wanted Best Practice for his patients but was raided by the Health Department and
treated like a criminal.

If vaccines were effective one could be coerced into complying but when they didn’t
prevent a person contracting the virus why should one be vaccinated?

Besides the complications that have been documented post vaccines has been horrific,
both in numbers and severity. Why wasn’t this reported more widely?

Currently 139,579 adverse reactions cases listed on TGA DAEN following COVID -19
jabs from 21/12/2020 to 25/11/23, including 5,863 cases reported of Australian children
aged under 18. Refer DAEN website as evidence.

1,005 reported jab deaths on DAEN consisting of apprw^S^^^^^^^H), 452
                                             3                 TNS ( Type
not specified ). TGA DAEN

https://daen.tga.gov.au/medicines-search/

Of these 1,005 COVID-19 jab reported deaths, 9 child reported deaths, aged from 5-17

Therefore, I recommend that the federal government: -

   1.     Stops advertising the jabs as 'safe and effective'.

   2.     Halts the jab recomendations which are clearly doing more harm than good.

3. Stops all conflict of interests involving funds being given from big Pharma to TGA and
governments, and Doctors.
4. Stops giving legal indemnity to pharmaceutical companies, and roll it back to before
the trials started.

   3. Ensures proper and easier compensation channels for the jab-injured and their
      families.

   4. Cuts their ties to globalist agendas and one-world government processes to
      retain our independence as the sovereign nation of Australia.

7. And, as the^^Htrial ends in December 2023, 1 recommend that the federal
government immediately publishes the findings publicly on all media platforms to inform
the people of the trial outcomes.


I look forward to seeing these recommendations being implemented regarding covid 19
and any future viruses.
