A Royal Enquiry into the COVID 19 Pandemic and its response measures is an absolute MUST.

What we need to consider and the questions we need to have answered:




    1)   The clinical trials of all suppliers of the Covid-19 shots need to be reviewed and scrutinized
         to unequivocally prove their validity.
    2)   The basis of the claims of "Safe" & "Effective" needs to be reviewed now knowing that the
         Covid-19 shots neither prevent infection nor transmission, as well as the number of deaths
         amongst vaccinated people to date.
    3)   The censorship of scientists, doctors, medical professionals and other experts during the
         pandemic is due for review. A reason as to WHY a proper scientific debate was NOT
         facilitated or encouraged. Instead people of merit and creditability in their field of expertise
         were silenced, banned, deregistered and even taken into custody - why did this happen?
    4)       Are there ANY conflicts of interest between TGI, APRHA, Government agencies and Media?
    5)   An even deeper dive into the lock-step approach taken across the world to ensure the same
         message of fear and control was being spread, is worth looking into too, and how this has
         infiltrated our political systems and the ties that exist between Australian and International
         Policy/ relationships.
    6)   The increase in "Sudden Deaths" MUST be investigated - Australians are DYING in large
         numbers, and this does not seem to be a cause of concern for anyone in Government. Help
         us understand your reasoning for dismissing this.
    7)       The increase in heart-related conditions also needs to be investigated thoroughly.
    8)   The measures taken during the height of covid: lockdowns, masks, segregation of society
         (Vaccinated vs. Unvaccinated), injection mandates and harmful impacts to the spirit, mental,
         physical, relational and economic health of the Australian people. And the basis for these
         decisions, WHERE IS THE EVIDENCE THAT THIS WAS GOING TO BE EFFECTIVE METHOD OF
         PREVENTATIVE HEALTH?
    9)   We need COMPLETE and UTTER transparency as it related to the relationships, dealings,
         associations, links between ALL public servants and Private & Public Corporations/
         Enterprises, the Media, Pharmaceutical Companies, Regulatory Agencies and Big Tech.
    10) A full review into the number of 5G towers that were erected during the lockdowns / heigh
         of Pandemic and the implications to community health as it relates to the excessive
         radiation & EMF exposure.

These I believe to be a good springboard into a far more exhaustive list of topics that need to be
investigated. The people have the right to transparency and the truth. The time to step onto the
right side of history is NOW.
