Dear Inquiry Panel,
Thankyou for the opportunity to respond into the handling of COVID 19 in Australia. An inquiry without
accountability such as a full Royal commission would provide, is like washing a dog without soap. It
appears to convince the uninitiated that the dog is clean gives the same aroma to convince but lacks the
real cleaning agent to do the job ...that will restore trust in health delivery and government ability to do so
proportionately. At the moment it could be likened to a dog's breakfast with no one taking responsibility to
clean it up or fix the mess it has caused. This I find as an Australian citizen appauling shocking and grievous.
Trust not only in govt health providers BUT in govt itself has been shattered for the hundreds of
thousands who have 'vaccine' injury but also for the families who have lost family members due to a failed
speculative medical intervention that frankly has gone terribly wrong.


The only way to restore this trust is to bring those responsible to account and eventually to justice to the
full extent of the law.


Frankly there is enough evidence to indicate malfeasance, negligence and failure to fulfill duty of care
listed in any govt employees code of conduct to dismiss most departments and officials who were
complicit because they had opportunity and knowledge about the failures, in all levels of the health during
COVID, to fire everyone and start again. This is huge and recompense, regret and confession needs to start
now and the only way to get that on the public record is to have a Royal Commission on the public record
for all to see....for the public to have at least justice seen to be done if not real justice delivered. So a Royal
Commission must be done!


Responses are only as good as defining and diagnosing the root cause of the problem. In this instance
COVID 19, not a real pandemic not even an epidemic.
Failures: 1 There was no definitive isolation of a real virus.
2. Reliance of faulty modelling based on case numbers NOT SEVERITY.
3. Following definitions by the W.H.O - the WHO redefined a pandemic around contagion not severity ie
mortality.
4. Why? Because of conflict of interest by those who conveniently provided a solution. Such solutions were
never novel but were patented before the COVID outbreak. The is evidence that the U.S President signed
off on mRNA vaccines months before the official outbreak.
5. Our health officials were compromised from the word go. It is now apparent that the TGA was limited by
the govts signed contracts with 'vaccine' suppliers NOT to test any product for purity and efficacy.
6. Those contracts also limited the naming and listing of all ingredients in 'vaccines' - making the first duty
of care impossible, that is failure to provide up front information to fulfil the 'Immunisation handbooks'
requirement for full informed consent to be delivered , was made impossible - thus compromising every
health care provider. This was totally wrong and put everyone in an untenable position.
7. Forcing people to comply to deliver a truly unknown product was immoral particularly as participation
was mandatory to keep their job. This was evidenced in the AHPRA letters that went out to doctors to
comply or face registration disciplinary action.
The experimental nature of the 'vaccine' was acknowledged in public by the Chief medical Officer^^^J


8. Lockdowns for short periods only, were understandable to make up some lag time in discovering the
severity and solutions for COVID 19. Evidence from non govt supplied sources was available but not
consulted. This was a huge mistake in gaining world best expert advice from non conflicted sources.
Evidence was available but not regarded as credible the likes of Prof            and Prof                a
^^^insider should have been considered. It indicated the real nature of the 'severity' across 16 countries
as early as May 2020. To be a threat of less than 0.5 % for the over 75 yr olds and as low as 0.15% for the
rest. This played out in the real numbers of severity ie deaths in Australians of less than 1000 deaths from
'Alpha' in 2020. No children and no one under 50.
9. Such numbers DID NOT warrant lockdowns beyond a couple of weeks and in any case no lockdowns in
countries like Sweden and Denmark showed no appreciable difference in spread. Once again 'spread'
should never have been used as a benchmark.
10 Failure to consider personal immune systems and therefore whole populations ability to cope with
corona viridae was a huge false assumption. Australia deals with the four main strands that show itself as
flu capably every year.
11 Failure of the ABS and Health Depts to count separately flu numbers during 2020 and 21 added to
convenient re-catastrophising those into COVID numbers was a disgrace in mis informing the public. This
should never have been allowed!
12. Failure to find and use a real testing device for an isolated virus. The inventor of the PCR test himself is
on record as saying the device was never invented to test for a disease or virus.
13 Failure to use less than 40 cycles in hospital testing of PCR tests was also a disgrace. Dr^^^s on
record as saying anything above 25 cycles was inaccurate.
14. Government handling whether state or Federal failed to exercise a duty of care for its citizens. They
failed to do their due diligence in testing the product. They failed to ascertain accurately the threat and
used a shot gun, one solution fits all approached which failed to recognize demographic abilities to resist
COVID 19. They also failed the early signs that it truly only affected those with co-morbidities even in the
endangered 75 yr old demographic.
15. They waived safety standards due to 'emergency use' authorization for products which were in fact
untested sufficiently and used niche mRNA technology for general and all populations. The product was
mis informed to the public as a 'vaccine' when in fact it was gene based medical intervention never tried at
scale.(an experiment). Such misinformation should never happen again!
16. This one size fits all tech should have not been used over existing safe medication that was shown to be
successful in U.S hospitals with a 95% recovery rate early in the outbreak. Such meds were banned by the
TGA as early as March 2020. This was grossly negligent bordering on criminal considering thes could have
been used safely to save Australian lives. On what basis were these meds banned? We were never told and
the TGA had a duty of care to do so!
17. Mandating employers to enforce such a medical response was gutless and sought to step around
government responsibility and liability if the 'vaccines' went wrong which they have. Mandates for a
disease with a risk profile of less than .5% should never happen again.
18. Excluding people from work unless they complied is a violation of human rights to be self determining
and contravenes our agreement with our ICCPR requirements.
19. Excluding people from association and being with family members because of prolonged lockdowns
and mandates is disproportional and contravenes the Siracussa Principles of the ICCPR.
20. To sustain a misinformation campaign based on faulty diagnosis of COVID 19 'case numbers' did and
does fail in a governments duty of care to provide citizens with correct information in order to protect the
health of themselves and their families. (Law of Nations Bk 1, 202)
21. Further any attempt to shut down, gag, censor any group from seeking, obtaining and communicating
that information is also in breach of the Law of Nations. This includes public slighting and labelling of such
genuine seeking, sovereign persons as defaming them and any govt seeking to do so should beware.
22. Health Ministers escaped scrutiny by being given powers to declare and emergency. This should be
corrected so that they are made accountable to a select independent committee WITHOUT ANY ASSOC
with benefitting parties(conflict of Interest) who should report to parliament and it be given a vote.
Australia has suffered horrendous familial, social, psychological and financial costs and the nation plunged
into an unnecessary generational debt because the government behind closed doors, signed us into such
debt levels when it signed the contracts. Particularly into an experimental product, which the makers state
was never tested to do ie to 'halt transmission', the very reason govt reported to the public, was its goal in
doing so.
23. Similarly declarations of 'Emergency' also should be the onus of parliament to declare not single health
Ministers open to abuse and conflict of interest.
24. Bodies to oversee any 'real pandemic' ...(COVID 19 was not) should comprise government appointed
ministers and only specialist 'qualified' health officials decided by the parliament (with no conflict of
interest or association with Big Pharma) to form a cabinet to advise the PM. Such bodies as National
Cabinet are unconstitutional and undemocratic. State involvement in such coordination should be done in
an accountable democratic way and not at the whim of a PM. These bodies need to be accountable in their
formation to and under parliament scrutiny.


Further Any such decisions for lockdowns mandating, state compliance should go the parliament to debate
and have input from. Eg It is and was not appropriate for^^^^^^H a past chair of ^^Hto be on such a
cabinet. It should never happen again.
25. Medical intervention providers ie 'vaccine makers' should always be responsible fortheir product
safety and efficacy and liable for any and all injury sustained by their products like any product under
consumer law. Suppliers should NEVER be given indemnity for such injury claim again. As its stands we
have the appauling situation where up to 150,000 who have legitimate vaccine injury claims ae not even
recognized let alone fairly compensated. Based on TGA's official 139,654 (as at 11/23) - multiplied by
CDC's estimation of VAERS reports to be less than 1% of the real numbers. Similarly TGA vaccine injury
death reports are 1004 ( Real numbers 100 times this) That's 100,400 dead Australians as a result!


Only a Royal Commission will get to the bottom of the 20-30,000 Australians shown to have died in the
excess deaths via ABS statistics, concurrent to getting the mRNA vaccine.(during 2021-23). This is the
bare minimum Australians deserve to explain, name and bring to justice those responsible in Australia's
biggest loss of life event since WW2.


Im calling on the 'Inquiry panel' in the light of such failures to call for a Royal Commission, so those who
oversaw such a medical debacle, costing millions of dollars and incalculable grief and loss on top of
millions in productivity loss and debt level accumulation, are made accountable to the Australian people
to the fullest extent of the law. SO THIS DEPLORABLE RESPONSE NEVER, EVER HAPPENS AGAIN!


LEST WE FORGET!
ANTHONY - Australian citizen, Father of         one of whom is now permanently vaccine injured
