                                                                                          Glen Hodgkiss




                                                                                     Ph

                                                                        E.



13th December, 2023



To whom it may concern,



I write to you in relation to the proposed COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

I am an 'average, every day' Australian that has been greatly affected by Federal and State
Government responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. I was impacted by anti democratic policies and
ended up moving states to escape absurd over-reach and over-regulation. But admittedly, nowhere
in Australia was immune to significant over-reach.

Firstly, I believe in the strongest terms that a Royal Commission is warranted and required for this
purpose. Not simply an inquiry.

The proposed inquiry will omit issues at the very heart of Australia's response to COVID-19. The
main one being that it will not investigate the individual state government responses which (from
the average Australian's viewpoint) were the most relevant and impactful to every-day life during
the last 3 years.

An election promise of the current Federal Government was to provide a Royal Commission and not
simply a toothless and inept inquiry.

Fast forward 18 months and this very government is now voting in the senate to block its own
election promise. This is a disgraceful and obvious attempt to protect its own party, both at state
and federal levels.

It would be inconvenient to ALP governments around the country. However, this is an insufficient
and unacceptable reason to be reneging on their previous promise for a Royal Commission into the
COVID-19 response.

The main issues I believe that need to be addressed in a Royal Commission are:



    •   How the Federal Governments allowed State governments / Premiers to run riot over their
        respective citizens, via massive over-reach of policies that had a profound and direct impact
        on us.
•   At a federal level, the COVID-19 vaccines were not mandatory. At a state level, this was very
    different, and forced citizens to be excluded from society and employment if they expressed
    and retained their freedom to choose. This, in Australia?

•   The TGA are quite clearly compromised by conflicts of interest (being 90% funded by
    pharmaceutical companies) and have acted disgracefully via the lack of independent testing
    performed on the vaccines. Basing approval on a novel vaccine based on a pharmaceutical
    company's fraudulent testing data, or on that of a foreign health agency, is nothing short of
    negligence and criminal.

•   As the pandemic evolved and it has become clearer what so many Australians suspected
    from the outset - there has been no change of message from the government, or lessons
    learned. Admissions on the failure of the vaccines to sterilise, ineffectiveness of lockdowns
    and curfews lead me to believe Federal and State governments are hiding from the truth
    and unlikely to learn anything from a simple inquiry.

•   The State governments were allowed to mandate a provisionally approved products on to its
    citizens. Manufacturer trial data showed significant cause for concern based on mortality
    and adverse event statistics. Despite attempts to have this data buried for 55 years, the
    average Joe could see that these products had risks. To allow them to be mandated on to
    the populace? No inquiry is sufficient to get to the bottom of this, a Royal Commission is
    clearly needed.

•   Why did Australia order 255 million vaccine doses, for a population of 26 million? Was the
    plan to vaccinate every Australian 10 times for the one variant, or was this perhaps a waste
    of (circa $18b) taxpayer money?

•   Are the terms of the vaccine purchases from the pharmaceutical companies ever going to be
    made public? Or is this still considered not in our best interests? One might suspect that the
    terms in in these contracts gave complete indemnity to the pharmaceutical companies,
    which would be unpopular to the public.

•   The Federal government allowed the State's government responses to continue, despite
    being anti-democratic and technically illegal. Turning a blind eye to mandates, lockdowns
    and curfews which were all enforced without public health advice ever being presented.

•   The above-mentioned health advice has still never been produced, and without a Royal
    Commission, will likely remain hidden. An ineffective inquiry will not have the power to
    uncover this information so we can better understand why these policies were enforced.

•   Censoring of prominent scientists and every day citizens has been harmful and undemocratic
    for a 'free' country. It must be quite embarrassing when what was considered
    'misinformation' 3 years ago turned out to be accurate. Embarrassment aside, proper
    investigation into the censorship during the pandemic is clearly required. The proposed
    misinformation/disinformation bill is not in effect yet (nor will it stop people from their right
    to freedom of speech)
Finally, allowing just over 2 weeks for submissions to the COVID-19 response has not been
overlooked by this citizen - and many others. Nor has the time of year it has been provided when
people are at their busiest.

This short timeframe and distraction of the Australian people are obvious attempts to limit the
feedback to this inquiry. I sincerely hope this is both called out, and that it backfires! It is,
unfortunately, yet another attempt by the current government to 'run and hide' from its
responsibility to be open and truthful to the people it serves.

There are attempts to 'pass the buck' and go silent on the many failures during the COVID-19
response. Governments, health bodies and agencies have all had ZERO accountability during the
whole debacle.

By allowing this COVID-19 inquiry to continue without a Royal Commission is further criminal
negligence by this administration.

In summary, we deserve and demand a COVID-19 Royal Commission and will not stop lobbying our
local MP's and Senator's until this is achieved.



Sincerely,




Glen Hodgkiss
