Submission to Covid-19 Response Inquiry

I am a J year-old female, with post-graduate level education, living in rural Australia. I live with a
disability.

I believe the Australian Government's response to Covid-19 was disproportionate to the actual threat
posed by the disease. The Government's response did, and continues to do, far more harm than good.

I began to doubt the Australian Government's response when it became clear that the government was
fuelling fear in the population rather than doing their best to ease people's anxieties surrounding the
allegedly novel disease. Fear is tactic of tyrannical governments and should never be a tactic employed by
the government of any free democratic nation.

Early in 2020 I searched Australian government health websites for information about mental health
techniques to help with anxiety surrounding covid-19. I found none. In hindsight, I realise that much of
that initial anxiety was fuelled by the fear-mongering and alarmist content of mainstream-media news
bulletins and government press conferences at the time. A government who cares for the well being of its
citizens would have done everything possible to ease anxieties, not frighten people.

The government's response was one of tunnel-vision, singularly focused on limiting the number of "cases"
regardless of whether the said "cases" were nothing more than a mild cold. No attention was paid to
helping the population understand and improve their chances of preventing severe illness through age-
old remedies such as a good diet, vitamin intake, vitamin d (sunlight) exposure and good mental and
spiritual health.

I would like to comment on the scope of this Inquiry. The fact that some of the people chairing this Inquiry
expressed support for the measures that many citizens found oppressive, raises the question of whether
this Inquiry can objectively evaluate the government's response. Australia's Human Rights Commissioner
has noted the Inquiry's scope did not cover the actions of state and territory governments (iockdowns,
curfews, mask mandates, vaccine mandates, state-border closures, school closures etc.) and that the
terms of reference for the Inquiry have no specific focus on human rights impacts. The Australian Human
Rights Commissioner has stated: "Australia is a federation and needs an inquiry that reflects this"
(https://humanrights.gov.au/about/news/media-releases/human-rights-commissioner-critical-covid-
inquiry-scope) I concur with this opinion. The actions of state and territory governments ought to have
been included in the scope of the Inquiry and their omission is a glaring oversight.

Many state and territory government actions were severely disruptive to the daily lives, freedoms and
human rights of Australian citizens. Under state and territory governments, Australian citizens were
subjected to the excessive removal of freedoms. They were locked in their homes or quarantined, they
were denied the right to freedom of movement across state borders (this was particularly disruptive for
people living near state borders who need to travel across borders on a daily basis). They were denied the
right to freedom of movement within their own state (5 km zones, check-in's required to gain access to
public facilities and private businesses etc.). They were denied the right to worship God, to run their
businesses, to work their jobs, to go to school, to show their face without a mask, they were separated
from their loved ones (including dying loved ones, whom they would never see again) and denied the
right to properly mourn their loved ones (with number limits imposed on attendees at funerals). No-one
should have been locked-down ever, especially not the healthy, or those who may have been exposed.
People who were sick, could have been advised (not forced) to stay at home, and those who were not sick
should have been free to live their lives unhindered.

All minutes of National Cabinet meetings regarding the covid-19 response should be made publicly
available, unredacted. What happened in the National Cabinet meetings? Did Daniel Andrews reveal, for
instance, that he would mandate the 'vaccine' for every, single industry in Victoria; effectively forcing all
Victorians through undue pressure and coercion (prohibited in the Australian Government's Immunization
handbook) to be vaccinated whether they gave consent or not? Scott Morrison promised Australians that
the 'vaccine' would not be mandated, yet the Federal Government sat back and did nothing to protect
citizens from the pressure and coercion inflicted upon them by the States. If the decisions had been
discussed in parliament, as they had always been before, Australians would have had access to this
information and representative MPs would have been able to have a say and raise their concerns. The
amount of secrecy surrounding these meetings was unprecedented and completely inappropriate for a
democratic nation.

I believe the Federal Government ought to have intervened when state and territory governments were
clearly overreaching their authority. The state vaccine mandates were a breach of the human rights of
Australian citizens. Many people were a sacked from their employment or excluded from their education
because of vaccine mandates. The Federal Government was also responsible as they failed to introduce
anti-discrimination legislation
(https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentarv Business/Committees/Senate/Education and Employment/
VaccineDiscrimination )

The Australian government needs to be completely transparent with regards to all contracts regarding
covid-19 'vaccines' made between the government and pharmaceutical companies. These contracts ought
to be made public. Any and all conflicts of interest with regards to those who advised the Australian
Government on their response to covid-19 should be made public. The Australian Government needs to
also be transparent about the wasteful spending of Australian taxpayers money ($18 billion) on ineffective
covid-19 'vaccines' and treatments, including buying hundreds of millions of doses of 'vaccines,' over half
of which were binned.

With regards to the covid-19 'vaccines', the regulations of the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator
should have been applied to the covid-19 mRNA 'vaccines' as they are actually gene therapies.

Provisionally registered therapeutics, such as the covid-19 mRNA 'vaccines', rely on adverse event
reporting to build their safety profile. Censoring people who speak about injuries or warn about adverse
reactions to a therapeutic is the exact opposite of what a responsible government should do, yet this kind
of censorship did take place. In 2021, the federal Department of Health and Aged Care requested that
Facebook remove a support group for vaccine injured Australians. Facebook removed the group.
(https://www.health.gov.au/resources/foi-disclosure-log/foi-3953-documents-related-to-covid-19-social-
media-spend-and-correspondence ) There was entirely too much unwarranted and unjust censorship on
the part of the Australian government as part of their response to covid-19.

Doctors and nurses and other medical professionals should have been free to critically assess the
'vaccines' without fearing that their license to practice would be taken away from them. Different views
were belittled, repressed, censored, and attacked, even when they came from experts.

The Therapeutic Goods Adminsitration (TGA) has failed in its duty to protect Australians. A Freedom of
Information request (FOI 4032 https://www.tga.gov.au/resources/publication/publications/documents-
released-under-section-llc-freedom-information-act-1982-jul-2022-jun-2023 ) shows that in 2021 the
TGA were already aware of significant safety signals with regards to the covid-19 mRNA gene therapy
'vaccines', yet they were and still are being promoted as 'safe and effective'. Why? The TGA needs to take
every safety signal seriously and be 100% transparent about these safety signals with the Australian public
(Freedom of Information requests should not be needed when the health of Australian citizens is at
stake).

Their should be encouragement and incentives to help doctors and hospitals to report all suspected
adverse reactions to therapeutics to the TGA. The current system is voluntary and reports of suspected
adverse events must be made in the doctors own time. How can accurate safety profiles for therapeutics
be established if many suspected adverse reactions are never reported?

To ensure independence and non-bias, the TGA should be 100% tax payer funded instead of relying so
heavily (96% of funding) on fees paid by companies seeking to have their therapeutics approved. In
addition, TGA employees should have absolutely no conflicts of interest that could compromise their
professional work - for example, they should own no shares in pharmaceutical companies, have no
previous employment with a pharmaceutical company and have no close friends or relatives employed by
a pharmaceutical company.

Many of those people injured by the covid-19 'vaccines' have been shamefully treated - even censored
for sharing their stories. It is unacceptable that most can't get even basic compensation because of the
extremely narrow federal compensation scheme. I believe their should be a national apology to the
'vaccine' injured. There should also be a national apology to the unvaccinated and to all those who have
suffered economically, socially and psychologically because of lockdowns, curfews, 'vaccine' mandates,
and other excessive measures imposed on them by their government in the name of supposed safety.

No-one should ever have been denied entry to any event or place that they would have been legally
allowed to enter pre-2020. No-one should have been forced to "check-in" and have their private
movements tracked. Australians were forced, like eastern Europeans under communist rule, to "show
their papers" to travel to another part of their own, (free) country. This must never ever happen again.

Masks could have been recommended to those who were sick, when they needed to be out in public, but
should never have been recommended (and never ever mandated) to those who were not sick. Masks
restrict oxygen intake, encourage the build-up of bacteria and lead to the inhalation of micro-particles.
The government, as in past times, should have recommended against healthy people wearing masks.

Why did the Australian government decide to ignore the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for
Pandemic Influenza? Why did they instead do the opposite? All-in-all, the Australian government's
response to covid-19 mimicked that of other overreaching countries, such as China, and included the kind
of secrecy, narrative-control and propaganda that you would have expected from said communist nation,
rather than a democracy. There was none of the home-grown inventiveness and ingenuity and open
scientific debate that would have occurred in crises of the past. Why did Australia censor many of its own
scientific experts? Why did Australia allow the brutality of the Andrews' Victorian government to treat its
southern citizens like slaves, without say even over their own bodies, rather than free and dignified
human beings?

The power, control, censorship, propaganda, and secrecy displayed in the Australian government's
covid response, has given rise to its belief that Australians are seemingly ok with the government
taking control of their lives, bodies and privacy, and has led to a whole slew of other power-hungry,
freedom-stripping legislation being put forward by the government, such as misinformation and
digital ID bills. Australians do not want these things. Australians did not want the covid response they
were given. The errors and gross violations of human rights must be called-out now, so as to never be
repeated in the future.

I request that their be a Royal Commission held into Australia's response to Covid-19: a thorough,
unbiased inquiry. Australia must learn from the mistakes made during the covid-19 response. Freedom
and human rights must never again be cast aside.
