                   Commonwealth Government COVID-1                            quiry
                        Submission - Nicholas Marlow,
                                       12/12/2023

I am an Australian                                            first became aware of the United
Nations Agenda 21 agreement back in 2008 and have watched with concern over the years since as
our governments went about implementing the Agenda 21/Agenda 2030 and the “Sustainable
Development Goals” in a way that appeared to be hugely detrimental to our country and its people,
and appeared to be based largely on political and scientific fraud. The global roll-out of the COVID-
19 attack massively accelerated the progress of this, and suddenly explained many of the questions I
had, specifically relating to the Sustainable Population targets being proposed by these foreign
organisations including the UN and the World Economic Forum.

By March 2020, the evidence was clear: Doctors, nurses, statisticians, scientists etc throughout the
world were speaking out and being censored, sacked and even killed. The virus was known to be of
a similar level of threat to a typical flu, and there was several safe, cheap, off-patent drugs, with a
long history of safe use in humans, which were remarkably effective at preventing and treating
COVID-19. These included, in particular, Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin/Zinc. Various world
leading experts were censored and faced character assassination for promoting these drugs.
Ivermectin was fraudulently dismissed as “just a horse dewormer” despite 50+ years of extensive
global use as a human anti-parasitic with an impeccable safety record. Nobel Prize winnei^^J
         the inventor of PCR, stated in 2019 that PCR was not suitable for use as a diagnostic test,
and that it could be used to find just about anything in anyone. Yet PCR was used as the diagnostic
test for COVID-19, with excessively high amplification cycles, and the resulting massive amount of
false positives allowed for the deliberate creation of a fake global pandemic.

We then saw the introduction of^^^^J into our hospitals, with the official COVID protocol
requiring people to go home and wait until they were gravely ill, before coming back to hospital to
receive the drug Remdesivir, a US Department of Defence/National Institutes of Health
S which causes kidney failure. Then the patients were put onto ventilators, which finished
    j    f       them. These deaths were put down as caused by COVID-19, adding to the
numbers to support the fake pandemic. Many doctors and nurses throughout the world spoke out
about this, and were censored and suspended, including here in Australia.

Meanwhile, the governments and mqdia worldwide were pushing the logic-defying narrative that
the only way out of the situation was a “vaccine” which allegedly hadn’t been invented yet.^^^H

                                                                                 Within about a
year, this was happening, and immediately the deaths started, and were covered up.

                                                                                                 From


per week, many just from our local rural community. People were scared to talk, for fear of being
called a conspiracy theorist, or other such rubbish. They only told people like me because they
knew we would listen.


In July 2022, after a meeting at Echuca, myself and a few others formed an organisation called
Billboard Battalion, with the aim of using alternative techniques to beat the censorship and deliver
the true and accurate information to a public which desperately needed to hear it. We have had
remarkable success to date, and are continuing our efforts.
As such, the cabinets of our Federal and State Governments, many members of the opposition,
many bureaucrats, as well as many scientists, doctors, nurses and members of the media, must be
arrested, and must stand trial under military court martials, charged with capital crimes, including
crimes against humanity,


The evidence of this global ^^^^^program has been well documented by the Corona
Investigative Committee as a result of their Grand Jury. World renowned trial lawyer
           led this Grand Jury, and their findings can be read at https://stopworldcontrol.com/jury/ -
Sadly                has since been arrested and detained by the German Government in an effort to
silence him.

The Australian government must immediately withdraw from The United Nations, The World
Economic Forum, The World Health Organisation, and all treaties, agreements and other
arrangements made under them. All domestic laws created as a result of any such treaties or
agreements must be nullified and repealed. This will include anything to do with health or pandemic
response, and also other seemingly unrelated Acts, such as the Commonwealth Water Act (2007)
which forms a part of this global attack by facilitating the removal of critical irrigation water from
food production.

The Australian government must publicly acknowledge, using all possible media and facilities, that
the entire COVID-19 operation is part of a £                 program, and that many people within
the Australian Government, medical system                 ave willingly engaged in
                                                                      The media must face loss of
their broadcasting licences etc it they do not tully an reefy promote this information, including
acknowledging their significant part in the attack.

The Australian government must also publicly demand the trial and               of the leadership of
the foreign entities that have conducted this attack.

Once we have our government back under domestic control by the We The People, the
Commonwealth Government must immediately, throw every possible resource towards scientific
efforts to find a way of saving the lives of the remaining people who have taken these poison
COVID injections as a matter of absolute urgency.
