Attention: The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel


Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission.

Here below is a short summary of what has become clear to me. While I have not referenced my statements, the evidence is
overwhelming and easily available to those who care to look for it. I have however attached a legal notice that has been used in
the USA and that contains a myriad of relevant facts and references.

    •        There was no pandemic, excess deaths only started after the ‘vaccine’ was rolled out.
    •        Covid 19 was akin to a severe flu. My chance of contracting covid and dying as a ^rear-old was 0.0035%.

    •         Masks are not only ineffective at stopping the transmission of viruses, they are also damaging to people’s physical and
         mental health and contributed to many deaths, particularly from bacterial pneumonia, as well as driving up anxiety,
         particularly in children.

    •    The PCR test is fraudulent and has been used to manufacture fear about meaningless ‘cases’ rather than actual
         infections. Furthermore, at the amplification rate used by the Australian government (35 cycles) yields about 95% false
         positives.
    •    The PCR test was used to harvest the DNA of millions of people and was sent to ^^^^^^^^chaired by
                                            the start of the debacle) and possibly other Chinese firms for analysis and data
         storage.

    •        The PCR test was used to insert biological and technological weaponry into people’s bodies and brains.

    •    Lockdowns caused sever harm to the Australian community and were know before hand to lack any benefits and were
         never a part of any country’s pandemic preparedness plans. They were however pushed by Operation Lockstep, the
         media and global NGO’s.

    •    The role of the mainstream media in relentless fearmongering and propagandising needs to be investigated, along with
         the sources of funding for such.

    •        Police brutality was evident in all states, but particularly Victoria.

    •        The covid injections are biological and technological weapons.

    •    The covid injections were less than 1 % effective at stopping people from contracting covid and were never even tested
         for their ability to stop transmission and failed to do so.

    •    It was impossible to have gained prior informed consent from anyone that took the injections as the product insert was
         and still remains blank and the contents of the injections have never been fully disclosed.

    •    The Nuremburg Convention has been contravened on numerous points and people are being experimented on to this
         day. This is evidenced by the differing   of the different batches.

    •    The covid injections are killing people and the Australian Government knows this and is hiding this information (as are
         most governments around the world). Globally it is estimated that at least 20 million people have been killed by the
         injections already, with hundreds of millions injured and maimed and likely to live far shorter lives. All people who
         received the injections have had heart damage.

    •    Other pharmaceutical products, especially injectables, contain nanotechnology. People are being borged (homo
         borgenesis) and eugenics and transhumanism are underway. It is not clear what the legal standing of these people
         now is.

    •    People’s God given rights and freedoms are being purposefully usurped. It is clear the agenda is to impose a neo-
         feudal system on the planet - sustainable slavery, as well as depopulating the planet in line with the Cairo Accord that
         the governments of the world have signed.




                                                                                                                                   1
    •   The proposed amendments to the International Health Regulations and the WHO’s proposed ‘pandemic treaty’ provide
        further evidence of future intended crimes against humanity under the guide of the ‘One Health’ approach. The Digital
         ID Bill plays a part in this agenda, together with the intended imposition of‘vaccine passports’ that will become
        mandatory for people to participate in society.

    •   The role of 5G and harmful EMR in causing covid and other illnesses needs to be investigated. The biosensing
        nanotechnology that people are now infested with is being misused.




In conclusion, this inquiry is completely inadequate, and I demand that a fully independent Royal Commission be convened to
investigate the matter. Corruption, fraud, misfeasance, malfeasance, treason, and democide are evident crimes that have been
committed.




Kind regards,




15 December 2023




                                                                                                                                2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
