                                                                 Australian Council
                                                             ZA\ of Social Service


Submission to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry
January 2024


About ACOSS
The Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS) is a national voice in support of
people affected by poverty, disadvantage and inequality and the peak body for
the community services and civil society sector.
ACOSS consists of a network of approximately 4000 organisations and
individuals across Australia in metropolitan, regional and remote areas.
Our vision is an end to poverty in all its forms; economies that are fair,
sustainable and resilient; and communities that are just, peaceful and inclusive.

Summary
ACOSS welcomes this Government inquiry into the COVID-19 Response and
appreciates the opportunity to respond.
While the vaccination rollout was poorly managed, the broader COVID social and
economic policy response was a remarkable policy experiment with profound,
but sadly not durable, social and economic impacts. The Federal Government
took decisive action to provide necessary financial support to people and
organisations adversely affected by the pandemic and to preserve employment
relationships via the boost to Jobseeker and the introduction of Jobkeeper
payments. These two payment systems were largely responsible for the fact
that, in stark contrast to previous economic recessions, poverty and income
inequality were both sharply reduced during COVID lockdowns. The major
weakness in the policy response was the exclusion of around 1 million people
(temporary visa holders) from any form of government assistance.
The Treasury estimates that JobKeeper Payments alone preserved between
300,000 and 800,000 jobs, that would otherwise have been lost during
lockdowns.1 In this way, it helped sustain growth in the economy and incomes
and avert a prolonged economic downturn. The doubling of Jobseeker
transformed lives, especially for people reliant on meagre government allowance
payments prior to the pandemic, whose incomes effectively doubled.




 Australian Government (2023), Independent evaluation of JobKeeper Payment. Canberra.

                    © ACOSS 2023, Locked Bag 4777 Strawberry Hills NSW 2012
                           Ph (02) 9310 6200 E: info@acoss.orq.au
                                     www.acoss.orq.au
Major housing policy initiatives effectively eliminated rough sleeping and the
moratorium on evictions provided protection from homelessness to many
vulnerable tenants.
However, these reforms were largely impermanent, ending before the COVID
lockdowns at a time when vaccinations were still largely unavailable. Crisis
governance mechanisms should have included active collaboration and regular
advice from community leaders and services themselves, to ensure that
responses were tailored to the needs of disadvantaged communities and that no
one missed out on assistance.
This submission outlines priority recommendations for reforms to improve
community preparedness and responsiveness to future health and economic
crises. It contains two attachments: (1) a summary of evidence in support of the
recommendations and (2) a full list of the large body of work ACOSS produced
during the COVID crisis, including research reports produced with UNSW and
other external research partners.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Recommendation 11
Future crisis governance arrangements should involve active collaboration at the
national level with community leaders and services and leverage existing local
community structures and leadership.

Recommendation 2
Governments should regularly and transparently publish disaggregated data on
crisis impacts and access to assistance to inform crisis responses as they evolve,
including by reference to household income level (where possible) and other
appropriate indicators of socioeconomic status.

Recommendation 3
The Federal Government should strengthen the capacity of community health
organisations to deliver effective health services, including health promotion and
education programs to people and communities experiencing disadvantage. This
includes funding the full cost of service delivery and improved contractual
arrangements.

Recommendation 4
Given the transformative impacts of lifting the payment during the pandemic,
increase JobSeeker, Youth Allowance, Parenting Payment and related income
support to parity with pensions (currently $78 a day) and index these payments
in line with wages as well as prices at least twice per year.

Recommendation 5
Ensure temporary migrants with no other means of assistance have access to
crisis support and financial assistance.


                                           2
                                                                                       acoss



Recommendation 6

A national wage subsidy scheme should be quickly implemented in pandemics,
natural disasters or other national crises or major economic disruptions and
sustained for as long as necessary, with the following features:

   •       A two-tier payment structure for full and part time workers respectively;
   •       Payment through the employer to sustain the employment relationship;
   •       A turnover test to assess need for the subsidy;
   •   Capacity for refund of subsidies by businesses to government where no
       reduction in turnover occurs;
   •   A public register of recipient businesses, amounts received, and the profile
       of workers assisted;
   •       Provisions that take account of the special circumstances of charities;
   •   Eligibility that extends to employees with temporary and bridging visas
       and a wider range of workers employed on a casual basis.

Recommendation 7
Sustained and comprehensive policy responses should be introduced to address
longstanding housing issues, including:
   •   A major boost to homelessness service funding and ongoing effort to
       eliminate rough sleeping through provision of adequate crisis
       accommodation with pathways to secure tenancies.
   •   Further reforms to rental regulation to impose rent caps and strengthen
       protections from forced evictions.
   •   A 10-year plan to boost social housing stock benchmarked to housing
       need.
   •   A substantial boost to Rent Assistance for private tenants with low
       incomes to ease housing stress. The supplement should be benchmarked
       and indexed to actual rents paid.
   •   A national First Nations housing strategy to boost the stock of community
       housing, along with a new remote housing agreement, to address housing
       stress, homelessness and overcrowding in remote communities.




                                            3
ATTACHMENT 1: Discussion
1. Crisis governance
As part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the In March 2020, the
National COVID-19 Coordination Commission (NCC) was established within the
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet to advise the Prime Minister on all
non-health aspects of Australia's pandemic response.2 The Commission was
ostensibly to mobilise a whole-of-society and whole-of-economy effort "to
anticipate and mitigate the economic and social effects of the global coronavirus
pandemic."3 However, Commission membership was too narrow to facilitate such
an effort, with several members directly linked to gas and manufacturing
industries at the expense of a truly nationally represented group. The expertise,
perspectives and advice of essential and other community services were
marginalised from the beginning. Australia's initial non-health policy responses
thus skewed to the background and interests of NCC members. Appointees
lacked the expertise that could have been gained through the addition of a
representative from the community services sector.
In May 2020, the Commission set up a not-for-profit working group to consider
government and sector responses to issues affecting the people most vulnerable
during the pandemic.4 In July 2020, the Commission was repurposed as the
National COVID-19 Commission Advisory Board (NCC). The not-for-profit
working group remained. However, it was unclear at the time, and remains so
now, how the advice of this working group influenced government decision­
making, priorities and responses.5
As the pandemic progressed over several years, critical voices remained on the
outskirts of Federal Government engagement and discussions. Through national
challenges such as the impact of public health orders and various lockdowns on
communities, vaccination rollout problems and shortages of medical equipment,
many voices that could have provided important advice were not heard by
National Cabinet. ACOSS wrote to Prime Minister Scott Morrison in January 2022



2 Research Branch, Parliamentary Library (2020), COVID-19 Australian Government roles and responsibilities:
an overview. Parliamentary Library, Canberra. Available:
https://www.aph.qov.au/About Parliament/Parliamentary Departments/Parliamentary Librarv/pubs/rp/rpl920
/COVID 19AustralianGovernmentRoles
3 Australian Local Government Association (2020), National Covid-19 Coordination Commission. ALGA,
Canberra. Available: https://alqa.com.au/national-covid-19-coordination-commission/
4 Michael, L (2020), NFP working group survives COVID-19 commission shake up Pro Bono Australia. Available:
https://probonoaustralia.com.au/news/2020/08/nfp-workinq-qroup-survives-covid-19-commission-shake-up/
5 Hicks, E (2020), Private Actors & Crisis: Scrutinising the National Covid-19 Commission Advisory Board.
Governing During Crises Policy Brief No. 4. Melbourne School of Government, University of Melbourne.
Av a 11 a b I e: https://qovernment.unimelb.edu.au/ data/assets/pdf file/0006/3457725/GDC-Policy-Brief-
4 Private-Actors-and-Crisis final.pdf
                                                                                                                  acoss



seeking to remedy the failings in governance structures that genuinely tapped
into national expertise by suggesting the formation of "a civil society COVID
Rapid Response Group consisting of ACOSS, unions, business peaks and public
health experts to work closely with you over the next period in devising and
implementing policy responses."6 This proposal sought to address gaps in
expertise that National Cabinet failed to draw upon.
The HIV crisis that Australia navigated in the 1980s and 90s showed us that a
cohesive leadership plan where all levels of government trusted and listened to
the leaders of affected communities is vital,7 and this was lacking in much of the
COVID governance. It should be noted that, where local community leaders were
a part of the COVID response, as in remote Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
communities, there was generally a successful outcome, as in the prevention of
the spread of COVID through these communities in 2020.


Recommendation 1
Future crisis governance arrangements should involve active collaboration at the
national level with community leaders and services and leverage existing local
community structures and leadership.




  2.         Health measures
The focus of ACOSS' pandemic health policy work was on the health and
mortality of people experiencing poverty, disadvantage and hardship, including
cohorts such as people with disability, people in aged care facilities, people from
culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander people - all of whom were adversely affected.
Pandemic deaths in Australia have followed a social gradient. In 2021, the
number of people who died due to COVID-19 was 6 times higher for those in the
most disadvantaged quintile than those in the least disadvantaged, according to
the ABS index of socio-economic status (SEIFA). This ratio has declined over
time to 2.5 times higher in 2023.8




6 ACOSS (2022b), Response to address the ongoing COVID-19 crisis in 2022. Letter to the Prime Minister, all
State Premiers and territory Chief Ministers, 12 January 2022. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2022/01/ACOSS-Letter-to-National-Cabinet-Wed-Janl2-2022.pdf
7 ACOSS & AFAO (2020), Learning from one pandemic to live with another. Available:
https://healthequitymatters.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2020/11/2887 afao jointAFAO ACOSS report webart.pdf
8 Australian Bureau of Statistics (2023), COVID-19 Mortality in Australia: Deaths registered until 30 September
2023. ABS, Canberra. Available: https://www.abs.qov.au/articles/covid-19-mortalitv-australia-deaths-
reqistered-until-30-september-2023



                                                          5
People born overseas who died of COVID-19 had an age-standardised death rate
1.4 times higher than that of people who were born in Australia (16.0 deaths per
100,000 people compared with 11.7 deaths per 100,000 people). This mortality
rate varied considerably during the pandemic, peaking in 2021 when it was 3.9
times higher. It is now lower (at 13.0) than that of those born in Australia
(13.7).9

Vaccination
Australia's vaccination rollout has already been the subject of critique and
scrutiny. The various issues plaguing the rollout were summarised in Fault Unes:
An independent review into Australia's response to COVID-19:10
"The rollout of Australia's vaccination program was afflicted by bad tuck, bad
communication and bad decisions... The AstraZeneca vaccine was struck down
by bad communication from officials and politicians who through their
statements unnecessarily magnified concerns over the low risks associated with
a vaccine generally regarded as safe and effective. Bad decision-making meant
that Australia was too reliant on too few vaccine options. Regulatory approvals
were too slow when vaccines had already been approved by the world's most
trusted regulators. H/e reinvented the wheel on vaccine distribution instead of
using the existing, proven state-based networks normally relied upon."
Throughout the rollout period, ACOSS was primarily concerned with inequities in
ease of access to the vaccination. The social gradient outlined in the previous
section can in part be explained by these inequities in the rollout of COVID-19
vaccines, including how and where people could seek a vaccination. The rollout
lacked enough investment in community-led health initiatives. The effective
rollout in low areas of vaccination was hampered by a lack of enough data on
vaccination rates by group or local area. ACOSS emphasised to the Vaccination
Taskforce the need for urgent action to address gaps in vaccination coverage,
expressing our concerns that certain high-risk groups were not adequately
covered by the vaccination efforts.11
ACOSS proposed that priority be given to those at risk, through population­
specific and local-level vaccination targets based on public health advice, rather
than the national targets for vaccination that were in place. We also urged that
data on vaccine availability and rollout be made public in a timely fashion, and



9 Australian Bureau of Statistics (2023), ibid.
10 Shergold, P; Broadbent, J; Marshall I; Varghese, P (2022), Fault lines: An independent review into
Australia's response to COVID-19 Available: https://assets-qlobal.website-
files.com/62b998c0c9af9f65bba26051/6350438b7df8c77439846e97 FAULT-LINES-l.pdf p 26
11 ACOSS (2022c), Further urgent recommendations to address the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, letter to the
Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers, 27 January 2022. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2022/01/270122-Second-Letter-to-National-Cabinet-re-actions-for-Omicron-FOR-MEDIA.pdf
that vaccination rate data be made available to help formulate the best
response, as a targeted vaccination plan would depend on speedy data about
vaccination rates.12
In July 2021, ACOSS published a set of vaccination principles to inform the next
stages for Operation COVID Shield, drawing on the expertise and experiences of
community health and other social service organisations in working with at-risk
and vulnerable cohorts. This framework is available in the reference list for the
Inquiry's consideration.
ACOSS also suggested that home vaccination visits be increased for people
unable to travel to receive vaccinations for health, safety and wellbeing reasons.
This would serve the dual purpose of helping to alleviate concerns about
vaccination through direct interpersonal communication and increasing the
vaccination rates. Again, our January 2022 letter to National Cabinet detailed
further recommendations to achieve this end.13

Recommendation 2
Governments should regularly and transparently publish disaggregated data on
crisis impacts and access to assistance to inform crisis responses as they evolve,
including by reference to household income level (where possible) and other
appropriate indicators of socioeconomic status.

Community-led health initiatives
Where community-led health initiatives were used prudently, rapid feedback was
provided to government and other health policymakers about how they could
improve the rollout in specific communities, as well as identifying ongoing health
risks. Particularly successful initiatives were seen in Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander communities, communities of people with diverse cultural backgrounds,
disability communities and the LGBTQI community.
However, for most of the pandemic, there was insufficient investment in
community health services actively working with the at-risk and vulnerable
cohorts . Community service organisations were frontline, essential responders,
undertaking a litany of tasks, often without adequate resourcing from
government. The community sector was too often sourcing medical and vaccine-
related supplies themselves or redirecting limited funds out of other essential
programs due to lack of government resourcing.
In January 2022, ACOSS wrote to the National Cabinet urging immediate action
to better protect people from the ongoing health risks posed by both the


12 ACOSS (2021), Vaccination targets & data transparency leave no-one behind. ACOSS briefing 19 August
2021. Available: https://www.acoss.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/210819 ACOSS-
Briefinq Vaccinations-Tarqets-and-Data-Transparency Final-for-Release.pdf
 13 ACOSS (2022b), op.cit.
Omicron and Delta variants. We drew on the extensive, first-hand experience of
community service organisations working to ensure people's health, safety and
wellbeing, and detailed a suite of health policies, amongst other proposals. This
letter and its recommendations are available in the reference list for the
Inquiry's consideration.
A key element within our proposals was to ensure that community organisations
could act as distribution outlets for essential medical supplies and equipment
including Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE),
while offering similar support to people unable to leave their home for health
reasons. Specific additional investment should have been made in Aboriginal
Community Controlled Health Organisations across the country to support the
needs of their local populations.
The lack of resources made it incredibly challenging for service providers during
the pandemic. They regularly had to cross-subsidise their COVID-19 response
programs from other funding sources given the lack of resourcing by
government. The chronic under-funding of community health organisations
continues and should be actively addressed at the Federal level to strengthen
the capacity of community health organisations to deliver vital health services
currently and to be prepared for future emergency responses. We refer the
Committee to our submission, A Stronger, More Diverse and Independent
Community Sector, for further information and policy recommendations on these
issues (see reference list).

Recommendation 3
The Federal Government must strengthen the capacity of community health
organisations to deliver effective health services, including health promotion and
education programs to people and communities experiencing disadvantage. This
includes funding the full cost of service delivery and improved contractual
arrangements.

Sustained effort to combat the social determinants of poor
health.
Governments can protect people on low incomes ahead of a future crisis such as
COVID-19 by tackling the social determinants of poor health. This will ensure, as
much as possible, that people can face such challenges from a more equal
foundation. This can be done through systemic measures such as improving
income support payments and the provision of adequate housing.
3. Financial support for individuals
Coronavirus Supplement
Introduction of the Supplement
In March 2020, when COVID restrictions were first applied and the border was
closed, the total number of paid work hours nationally decreased by 10% and
the effective unemployment rate rose from 5% to 17%.14 2.7 million people lost
their paid work or capacity to undertake paid work almost overnight.15 It was
clear that any economic response must support employers, employees and
people without paid work. The Federal Government acted quickly to introduce
additional support payments for people without paid work as well as a wage
subsidy to keep people tied to their employment. It also removed several
barriers to social security including waiting periods and relaxed income tests to
expand support for people affected by the lockdowns. By August 2020, the
number of people receiving JobSeeker and related payments had increased to
2.2 million.

Despite the relaxation of JobSeeker eligibility criteria, 28% of people who lost
their job were ineligible to receive income support payments.16 People on
temporary visas including international students and people seeking asylum,
were excluded from income support, despite being locked down in Australia. This
remained a significant gap in the Government's policy response which must be
addressed.

In addition to the Coronavirus Supplement, the Federal Government provided
two separate lump sum payments of $750 to people receiving income support.
The first of these payments went to people receiving pensions, allowances as
well as concession card holders in March-April 2020. The second was received by
pensioners and concession card holders, who did not benefit from the
Coronavirus Supplement. Two additional Economic Support Payments of $250
were provided to people in the income support system not receiving the
Coronavirus Supplement in 2020 and February 2021.17


14 Davidson, P. & Bradbury, B. (2022), The wealth inequality pandemic: COVID and wealth inequality
ACOSS/UNSW Sydney Poverty and Inequality Partnership, Build Back Fairer Series Report No. 4, Sydney.
Av a i I a b I e: https://povertvandinequalitv.acoss.orq.au/covid-inequalitv-and-povertv-in-2020-and-2021-
2/#new tab
15 Australian Bureau of Statistics (2020), People who lost a job or were stood down: flows analysis, April 2020.
Av a i I a b I e: https://www.abs.qov.au/articles/people-who-lost-iob-or-were-stood-down-flows-analvsis-april-2020
16 ACOSS (2020b), Taking the Temperature: COVID-19 Update from ACOSS and its members. Briefing paper 1,
5 June 2020. ACOSS, Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/ACQSS-
COVID19-Briefinq-Paper-Takinq-the-Temperature-5-June-202Q.pdf
17 Australian Government (2020), Payments to support households: COVID-19 Economic response. Australian
Government, Canberra. Available: https://treasurv.qov.au/sites/default/files/2020-10/Fact sheet-
Payments to support households O.pdf
The major reform, however, was the doubling of income support payments like
JobSeeker with the introduction of the Coronavirus Supplement. The swift
introduction of the Supplement was transformative in its impact; without the
Supplement, it is estimated that poverty would have doubled.18 It changed the
lives of people who were receiving income support prior to the pandemic, who
were living well below the poverty line. People receiving JobSeeker told us:

        Getting the extra $550 [a fortnight] has helped me in a lot of ways. Not
        worrying about when I'm going to eat the next time or falling behind bills
        and getting kicked out, as after being homeless for 10 years and getting
        my own flat I never want to go there again.

        SAFE, we are safe. H/e are safe now. Please don't ever force us back to
        Newstart [JobSeeker]. H/e won't survive.19

The Supplement reduced financial hardship and stress, enabled people to eat
fresh fruit and vegetables, and pay their bills on time. Women told ACOSS the
Supplement enabled them to escape domestic violence. ACOSS also heard from
people who could take up education and training that had previously been out of
reach because their income was insufficient.

Removal of the Supplement
The Coronavirus Supplement was reduced to $125 a week on 25 September
2020, then to $75 a week by February 2021, and finally withdrawn in April 2021.
Once the Coronavirus Supplement was withdrawn, the Federal Government
permanently increased base rates of JobSeeker, Youth Allowance and related
payments by $25 a week.

While the Coronavirus Supplement had a profound effect on people receiving
income support payments by alleviating financial pressure and providing
breathing space, this gradual decrease of the Supplement had a damaging
effect:
        The [removal of the] supplement in many respects was like death of a
        thousand cuts.20




18 Phillips, B; Gray, M. & Biddle, N. (2020), COVID-19 JobKeeper and JobSeeker impacts on poverty and
housing stress under current and alternative economic and policy scenarios ANU Centre for Social Research
and Methods, Australian National University, Canberra. Available:
https://csrm.cass.anu.edu.aU/sites/default/files/docs/2020/8/Impact of Covidl9 JobKeeper and Jobeeker m
easures on Poverty and Financial Stress FINAL.pdf
19 ACOSS (2020a), The impact of financial distress on mental health during COVID-19. Briefing note, ACOSS,
Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/2020 08 28 ACOSS-Briefinq-
Paper Impact-of-financial-distress-on-mental-health-re-COVID-19-2.pdf
20 Naidoo, Y; valentine, k; and Adamson, E (2022) Australian experiences of poverty: risk precarity and
uncertainty during COVID-19 Australian Council of Social Service (ACOSS) and UNSW Sydney. Available:
https://bit.ly/3AFmXRk#new tab
At the time, ACOSS recommended that the payment continue until a 'social
security system is put in place that keeps everyone out of poverty.'21 The
prospect of removal of the Coronavirus Supplement was terrifying for many:

        I have lost sleep, my mental health has deteriorated dramatically, and I
        have considered suicide. I don't know if I will be able to survive the
        lowered rate of JobSeeker. I have been trying to find someone to adopt
        my cat so that she can be taken care of should I completely lose hope and
        end my life.

        I'm worried about not being able to afford my medication again. I will
        miss fresh food, and I am not looking forward to being in debt again.22

The pandemic reinforced the need for a permanent and substantial increase to
income support payments such as JobSeeker because the government's swift
doubling of the payment in April 2020 all but confirmed people could not live on
$40 a day (the rate of payment at the time). Despite the $25 a week permanent
increase (and subsequent $20 a week increase delivered in the May 2023
Budget), people receiving these payments continue to be unable to cover basic
costs. ACOSS continues to call for JobSeeker, Youth Allowance and related
payments to be increased to at least $78 a day.

Recommendation 4
Increase JobSeeker, Youth Allowance, Parenting Payment and related income
support to at least $78 a day (in line with pensions) and index these payments
in line with wages as well as prices at least twice per year.

Recommendation 5
Ensure temporary migrants with no other means of assistance have access to
crisis support and financial assistance.


Other financial support measures
Coronavirus support payments
Coronavirus support payments were one-off payments paid to people receiving
income support payments. The first one-off payments of $750 were made in
March 2020 and went to all people receiving income support. Three subsequent
one-off payments were paid to pensioners, Commonwealth Seniors Health Card
holders and others ineligible for the Coronavirus Supplement.



21 ACOSS (2020c), Media release: Extend JobKeeper & JobSeeker to ensure nobody is left behind. 25 May
2020. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/media-releases/7media release=extend-jobkeeper-jobseeker-to-
ensure-nobody-is-left-behind
22 ACOSS (2020a), op. cit.
CO VID disaster payments
COVID-19 disaster payments were introduced in June 2021 following further
state-based lockdowns and the end of JobKeeper and the Coronavirus
Supplement. Initially, the payments were $600 a week for people who had lost
at least 20 hours a week of paid work, and $325 a week for those who had lost
under 20 hours a week of paid work. The payment was only available to people
living in locked-down areas, and people receiving income support were initially
ineligible. Changes were made in July 2021 to increase the payment to $750 a
week for people who had lost over 20 hours a week of paid work, and $200 a
week for people who lost at least one day's pay and were receiving income
support payments (162,000 recipients). People who had not lost at least one
day's paid work still had to survive on the inadequate rate of JobSeeker or
related payments while being locked down, which exacerbated financial hardship
for many.

JobKeeper
JobKeeper Payment, announced in late March 2020 provided a temporary 'floor'
under people's wages while they were unable to participate in paid employment.
It was provided via employers who were eligible to claim if they were expecting
a significant decrease in turnover. It also importantly acted as a means of
keeping employees and employers connected.
JobKeeper was paid at the rate of $750 a week. This was equivalent to the
minimum full-time wage or around 70% of the national median wage. It was
paid to eligible employees who, in the four weekly pay periods before the
reference period, were employed for 20 hours or more a week23.
JobKeeper Payments insulated people from income losses, working in tandem
with JobSeeker Payments and Coronavirus Supplement to ensure that people
both in and out of paid work received some part of the Government's COVID
income supports. These two payment systems were largely responsible for the
fact that, in stark contrast to previous economic recessions, poverty and income
inequality were both sharply reduced during COVID lockdowns.24 The Treasury
estimates that JobKeeper Payments alone preserved between 300,000 and
800,000 jobs, that would otherwise have been lost during lockdowns.25 In this
way, it helped sustain growth in the economy and incomes and avert a
prolonged economic downturn. A proper assessment of its fiscal costs should
take full account of the counterfactual - the substantial deterioration in the
Commonwealth Budget which a prolonged downturn would bring.


23 Initially, JobKeeper was crudely targeted due to the need for a speedy implementation, and to make use of
the newly-introduced Single Touch Payroll system. Later refinements included making a lower payment per
fortnight available to employees who were working fewer than 20 hours a week.
24 Davidson, P. & Bradbury, B. (2022), op. cit.
25 Australian Government (2023), Independent evaluation of JobKeeper Payment. Canberra.
JobKeeper payments also supported workers maintaining an ongoing connection
with their employers, and in this way differed from similar policies in other
countries such as the UK and the US, where income support for workers
suspended from their employment during lockdowns (above and beyond
unemployment payments) was provided directly by the government as wage
subsidies (UK) or tax credits (US) regardless of their connection with their
employer. Consequently, there was much more 'churn' in jobs in these countries
when lockdowns ended and many more remained out of paid work. As a result,
Australia was less impacted by labour shortages in the first few years after
COVID lockdowns.
Jobkeeper's major flaw was the exclusion of temporary migrant workers and
those with bridging visas and casual workers employed for less than 12 months.
These exclusions meant that many thousands of people who could access neither
JobSeeker nor JobKeeper were thrown into poverty or destitution, putting
considerable pressure on emergency relief services. In future, consideration
should also be given to people employed on a casual basis for less than 12
months, since many do have an ongoing relationship with their employer despite
their casual status.
Another weakness of JobKeeper Payments was deadweight cost. Many
employers who estimated losses and who received the subsidy in the first round,
actually sustained their turnover. This ultimately affected public support for the
payment. Options to avoid this problem include adjusting payments to changes
in employer turnover in real time, or clawing back payments made to employers
who did not experience reductions in turnover.
Finally, in our view, the system of Jobkeeper Payments was dismantled too soon.
This meant the Government had to hurriedly assemble a new 'COVID Disaster
Payment' when the Delta strain of COVID spread later in 2021. The Disaster
Payment was paid through the income support system, so did not help sustain
people's connections with their employers. A better option would have been to
suspend the JobKeeper Payment system but leave the payment infrastructure
(and legislation) in place to meet future need.

Recommendation 6

A national wage subsidy scheme should be quickly implemented in pandemics,
natural disasters or other national crises or major economic disruptions and
sustained for as long as necessary, with the following features:

   •      A two-tier payment structure for full and part time workers respectively;
   •      Payment through the employer to sustain the employment relationship;
   •      A turnover test to assess need for the subsidy;
   •   Capacity for refund of subsidies by businesses to government where no
       reduction in turnover occurs;
   •   A public register of recipient businesses, amounts received, and the profile
       of workers assisted;
   •      Provisions that take account of the special circumstances of charities;
Eligibility that extends to employees with temporary and bridging visas
and a wider range of workers employed on a casual basis.
 4.      Housing and homelessness measures
The initial COVID emergency housing policy innovations prevented a surge in
homelessness, effectively eliminated rough sleeping and protected people
experiencing homelessness from infection. Eviction moratoriums and rent relief
frameworks also provided increased protection for tenants from homelessness
and rental stress. The main weaknesses of these responses was their short-term
nature and the failure to transition people experiencing homelessness from
temporary accommodation into long-term housing.
Emergency accommodation programs successfully housed over 40,000 people
and reduced street homelessness, but only temporarily. While the collaboration
between government and non-government organisations to house people
experiencing homelessness during COVID, the follow-on transition to longer-
term housing did not prove as successful in Australia as overseas, especially in
the UK. The number of people experiencing homelessness rose again after
emergency accommodation ended, exposing the challenges in maintaining
support for rehoused people previously experiencing homelessness when
government-funded assistance expires.
The income support measures outlined earlier, including JobSeeker and
JobKeeper, played a significant role in stabilising the rental sector. The
introduction of eviction moratoriums were generally well-received, but rent
variation frameworks were criticised due to the uncertainties associated with
them.
Mortgage payment deferrals were also introduced, which along with income
support, eviction moratoriums and emergency accommodation forthose
experiencing homelessness contributed to avoiding a housing market collapse.
The eviction moratoriums, rent variations and relief schemes implemented in
2021 were not as robust as those introduced in 2020. Only NSW and the ACT
reintroduced restrictions on evictions, whilst rental relief schemes were
undersubscribed, potentially due to reliance on federal income support.
The early hopes for significant policy resets to address housing inequalities
resulting from the pandemic have largely gone unfulfilled. Housing affordability
pressures are now even more acute, indicating a need for sustained and
comprehensive policy responses to address longstanding housing issues.

Recommendation 7
That sustained and comprehensive policy responses be introduced to address
longstanding housing issues, including:
A substantial boost to funding to homelessness services;
A 10-year plan to boost social housing stock benchmarked to housing
need.
A substantial increase in Rent Assistance for private tenants with low
incomes to ease housing stress, with the supplement benchmarked and
indexed to actual rents paid.
A national First Nations housing strategy to boost the stock of community
housing, along with a new remote housing agreement, to address housing
stress, homelessness and overcrowding in remote communities.
ATTACHMENT 2: Key COVID-19
documents
Income support & economy
ACOSS (2020), Who missed out on access to Australia's safety net under
COVID-19 Briefing, 21 April 2020. ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/Who-misses-out-
Briefinq-ACCESSIBLE-FINAL.pdf
ACOSS (2020/ Taking the Temperature: COVID-19 update from ACOSS and its
members. Briefing paper 1: 5 June 2020, ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/ACOSS-CQVID19-
Briefinq-Paper-Takinq-the-Temperature-5-June-2020.pdf
ACOSS (2020/ Taking the Temperature: COVID-19 update from ACOSS and its
members. Briefing paper 2, 22 June 2020, ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/ACOSS-CQVID19-
Briefinq-Paper-2-Takinq-the-Temperature-22-June-2020.pdf
ACOSS (2020/ Taking the Temperature: COVID-19 update from ACOSS and its
members. Briefing paper 3: 6 July 2020, ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/ACOSS-CQVID19-
Briefinq-Paper-3-Takinq-the-Temperature-6-July-2020.pdf
ACOSS (2020) JobKeeper Payment Transitions Briefing Paper, 8 July 2020.
ACOSS, Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/200717-JobKeeper-Payment-Transitions-Briefinq-
Paper-FINAL.pdf
Davidson, P., Bradbury, B., Dorsch, P. (2021) COVID income support: Analysis
of income support in the COVID lockdowns in 2020 and 2021. ACOSS/UNSW
Sydney Poverty and Inequality Partnership, Build Back Fairer Series, Report No.
1, Sydney. Available: https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2021/10/Covid-income-support build-back-fairer-report-l.pdf
Bradbury, B and Hill, T (2021) Australian income support since 2000: Those left
behind ACOSS/UNSW Sydney Poverty and Inequality Partnership, Build Back
Fairer Series, Report No. 2, Sydney. Available:
https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/income-support-since-
2000/#new tab
Davidson, P., (2022) A tale of two pandemics: COVID, inequality and poverty in
2020 and 2021 ACOSS/UNSW Sydney Poverty and Inequality Partnership, Build
Back Fairer Series, Report No. 3, Sydney. Available:
https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/covid-inequality-and-poverty-in-
2020-and-2021/#new tab
Davidson, P. & Bradbury, B., (2022) The wealth inequality pandemic: COVID and
wealth inequality ACOSS/UNSW Sydney Poverty and Inequality Partnership,
Build Back Fairer Series Report No. 4, Sydney. Available:
https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/covid-inequality-and-poverty-in-
2020-and-2021-2/#new tab
Deloitte Access Economics (2020) Estimating the economic impacts of lowering
current levels of income support payments Australian Council of Social Service,
Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/Final-ACOSS-Coronavirus-Supplement-to-ACQSS-
09.09.2020.pdf

Housing and homelessness
ACOSS (2020) COVID 19 Housing and Homelessness Briefing, 17 April 2020.
ACOSS, Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2020/05/Housinq-and-Homelessness-Briefinq-FINAL.pdf
ACOSS et al (2020) Joint proposal for economic stimulus. Healthy & affordable
homes: national low-energy productivity program. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/Economic-Stimulus-
Healthy-Affordable-Homes-NLEPP-June-2020-Final-18062020-002.pdf
CHIA, National Shelter, Homelessness Australia, Everybody's Home (2020)
Social housing acceleration and renovation program (SHARP). Available:
https://www.communityhousinq.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/SHARP-
Proqram.pdf
Pawson, H., Martin, C., Sisson, A., Thompson, S., Fitzpatrick, S. and Marsh, A.
(2021) COVID-19: Rental housing and homelessness impacts - an initial
analysis; ACOSS/UNSW Poverty and Inequality Partnership Report No. 7,
Sydney. Available: https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2021/02/CQVID19 Rental-housinq-and-homelessness-
impacts report-1.pdf#new tab
Pawson, H., Martin, C., Thompson, S., Aminpour, F. (2021) COVID-19: Rental
housing and homelessness policy impacts ACOSS/UNSW Poverty and Inequality
Partnership Report No. 12, Sydney. Available:
https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/covid-19-rental-housinq-and-
homelessness-impacts-2/#new tab
Pawson, H., Martin, C., Aminpour, F., Gibb, K., Foye, C. (2022) COVID-19:
Housing market impacts and housing policy responses - an international review
ACOSS/UNSW Sydney Poverty and Inequality Partnership Report No. 16,
Sydney. Avaliable: https://povertyandinequality.acoss.orq.au/covid-19-housinq-
market-impacts-2/#new tab
Community sector
ACOSS (2020) Impact on Community Sector of COVID 19 and the JobKeeper
Payment Briefing, 21 April 2020. ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/Job-Keeper-Briefinq.pdf
ACOSS (2020) ACOSS COVID-19 Response and Recovery - Community Sector
Issues Briefing, 23 April 2020. ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Community-Sector-
Briefinq-FINAL.pdf

Health and vaccination
ACOSS (2020) The impact of financial distress on mental health during COVID-
19. Briefing note, 28 August 2020. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2020/09/2020 08 28 ACOSS-Briefinq-Paper Impact-of-
financial-distress-on-mental-health-re-COVID-19-2.pdf
ACOSS & AFAO (2020) Learning from one pandemic to live with another
Ava i I a b I e: https://healthequitymatters.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2020/11/2887 afao jointAFAQ ACOSS report webart.pdf
ACOSS (2021) Community sector vaccination principles. ACOSS briefing,
originally published 21 July 2021, last updated 17 August 2021. ACOSS, Sydney.
Ava i I a b I e: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/ll/210817-
ACOSS-Briefinq Community-Sector-Vaccination-Principles-updated-l.pdf
ACOSS (2021) Vaccination targets and data transparency: Leave no-one behind.
ACOSS Briefing 19 August 2021. ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/210819 ACOSS-
Briefinq Vaccinations-Tarqets-and-Data-Transparency Final-for-Release.pdf
ACOSS (2021) Urgent measures to support vaccination rollout and people most
at risk and in distress Open letter to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief
Ministers, 19 August 2021. ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/ll/210819-Letter-to-
National-Cabinet Urgent-Actions Vaccinations-and-People-at-Risk-final-
public.pdf
ACOSS (2021) Urgent action regarding the National Plan, vaccination equity and
economic supports Open letter to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief
Ministers, 7 October 2021. ACOSS, Sydney. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/211007-Letter-to-
National-Cabinet-re-National-Plan-vaccination-equity-and-economic-supports-
final-public.pdf
ACOSS et al (2022) Joint statement on the need for free and accessible rapid
antigen tests to protect public health and the economic recovery. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/RAT-ioint-statement-
110222.pdf
Economic recovery
ACOSS (2020) Post COVID-19 Economic Recovery: Briefing. April 2020.
Ava i I a b I e: https ://www. aph.gov. au/DocumentStore.ashx?id = 25249b67-d452-
4b53-9f2b-3e5d934a970a&subId = 685056
ACOSS (2020) Recovering jobs: Policies to restore employment and reduce long­
term unemployment after the lockdowns. Briefing, 7 July 2020. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/200717-Recoverinq-
Jobs-Briefinq-Paper-FINAL.pdf

Other
ACOSS (2022) Response to address the ongoing COVID-19 crisis in 2022 Letter
to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers, 12 January 2022. ACOSS,
Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2022/01/ACOSS-Letter-to-National-Cabinet-Wed-Janl2-
2022.pdf
ACOSS (2022) Further urgent recommendations to address the ongoing COVID-
19 crisis Letter to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers, 27 January
2022. ACOSS, Sydney. Available: https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2022/01/270122-Second-Letter-to-National-Cabinet-re-actions-
for-Omicron-FOR-MEDIA.pdf
ACOSS (2022) Independent Inquiry into Australia's COVID-19 Response:
Submission from Australian Council of Social Service, 3 August 2022. Available:
https://www.acoss.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/ACQSS-Sub-to-Indep-
Inquiry-into-Australias-Covid-Response-3.8.22.pdf
