                 COVID-Inquiry-Submission - MAIN                                    15 December 2023


                                PART 1        INTRODUCTORY NOTES
    1.        Submission comprises;
              a. 'MAIN submission' document that includes a SUMMARY and supporting
                 STATEMENTS.
              b. 'Attachments' with supporting content that includes 'BOXES' with graphical
                 representations and links to sources of material.
                      i.   1 - The Virus, 2 - COVID Emergency, 3. COVID Debt
              c. QUESTIONS, FINDINGS and RECOMMENDATIONS for consideration by the COVID
                 Inquiry members are also included in the attachments.
    2.        To ensure validity supporting material sourced exclusively from;
              a. GOV, GOV owned and regulated media,
              b. GOV recognised organisations (monetary commitment - WHO etc) and resources
                 provided by the US, European and UK Governments.

                                         PART 2        SUMMARY
COVID Intervention in purported response to the circulation of the SARS-CoV-2 virus was a
catastrophic event in the history of Australia that must never be repeated.

    1.        What COVID Intervention should have been
              a. GOV formulate reasoned and cost-effective policy on the evidence available that
                 COVID-19 was essentially seasonal influenza with median age of death past life
                 expectancy,
              b. GOV widely distribute that evidentiary data and information to the public through
                 the media with guidance on reduction of transmission and treatments. That evidence
                 would have aligned with observations in the community and intelligent adult
                 Australians would have made rational decisions on protecting themselves and others
              c. Business, family life, schooling and socialisation would continue harmoniously and
                 the amount in public funds required to maintain Australia's world class health
                 systems would remain within the means of Australians without incurring unnecessary
                 debt.
    2.        What COVID Intervention comprised
              a. GOV commenced a sequence of dramatic actions commencing with a human
                 biosecurity emergency deciaration under the Biosecurity Act 2015 by the Governor
                 General 18 March 2020 that continued to 17 April 2022 during which time;
                      i. GOV commissioned the Doherty Institute to model hospitalisations in April
                           2020 that predicted 35,000 ICU admissions in a single day without restrictions
                           and 5,000 with restrictions within 43 weeks
                              1. Hospitalisations peaked at 52, or 100 X less, within the first 43 weeks of
                                 COVID-19.
                     ii. GOV did publish information COVID-19 symptoms were nothing more than
                           seasonal influenza with median age of death above life expectancy online but
Page 1 of 3
       ^^^■cOVID-Inquiry-Submission - MAIN                                          15 December 2023


                         did not reiterate that widely in public messaging instead implying COVID-19
                         was a pandemic worthy of hysterical panic in collaboration with GOV owned
                         and regulated corporate media.
                      iii. GOV made policy on the discredited Doherty hospitalisation modelling with
                         State premiers and territory chief ministers closing borders, stopping
                          important family ceremonies, locking people down (in a residential building in
                          Melbourne), shuttering businesses and closing schools.
                      iv. GOV spent $100 billions in compensatory and recovery payments as well as
                         the RBA transferring in excess of $400 billion to the banking and financial
                         system (TFF & QE programs to keep interest rates low until 2024 and make
                         funds available to lend respectively. Coincidently commencing 19 March 2020,
                         ONE FULL day after the declaration of the emergency. How did they know?)
                      v. In response to scepticism by Australians who had not observed any sign of a
                         dangerous virus in the community and who rejected COVID Vaccines, GOV
                          intimidated Australians into compliance by
                             1. deploying military personnel in public places of confrontations
                                 (borders, hotel quarantine etc),
                             2. instructing Police to violently assault protesting Australians and
                             3. threats of reduced earnings, job loss and social isolation to get jabbed.
    3. Findings - the apparent reason GOV around the country took an authoritarian approach
        forcibly adopting the role of guardian and treating adult Australians like helpless child like
        dependents was that COVID Intervention was premised on discredited modelling and NOT
        on actual evidence. It is noteworthy the majority of contested COVID fines and prosecutions
        have been rescinded - most likely as there was no evidence justifying issuance in the first
        place. Courts do not work on modelling, ONLY evidence.
   4. Conclusion -Should an actual Spanish Flu like virus arrive in Australia, GOV will adhere to
        Part 1 of this summary in providing evidence-based information for Australians to make
        decisions on isolation, mask wearing etc.

                                       PART 3        STATEMENTS
    1. The collective effect on the health of Australians of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that was reported
        by GOV to cause COVID-19 disease were;
              a. Symptoms
                       i. Immediate onset similar to cold and influenza
                      ii. Long term less duration than influenza
              b. Mortality
                       i. Case fatality rate in Australia of less than 0.1% when chronic illness omitted
                      ii. Median age of death over 80 years
              c.   Hospitalisations
                       i. Figures distorted by counting patients in hospital for actual illnesses and
                         conditions
Page 2 of 3
                   COVID-Inquiry-Submission - MAIN                                  15 December 2023


                       ii. Dramatically less than numbers predicted by modelling
              d. Case numbers
                        i. Obtained on unreliable testing method and that
                       ii. Increased exponentially way beyond typical virus transmission RO bands once
                          the hesitant majority of people had been coerced into COVID Vaccine uptake
                           under threat of lost earnings and employment in tactics developed by
                           implemented through Operation COVID Shield
    2.        COVID-19 differed markedly from SARS in that;
              a. SARS global case fatality rate = 9.6%
              b. Median age of death less than 45 years
    3.        COVID Intervention was;
              a. grossly disproportionate compared to the precedence set by GOV Health policy and
                   actions in relation to the similar but more severe influenza,
              b. not justified for it's duration by the data and information published by GOV on
                   websites and through legal compulsion,
              c. imposed by;
                        i. deceptively obtained consent through instilling unwarranted fear reporting on
                          since discredited highly theoretical modelling in the media by politicians,
                           medical professionals restrained by changes to the medical code of conduct
                          and high-profile media presenters and personalities,
                       ii. intimidation by deploying military personal to confront Australians in public
                           places and through broadcast images of various State and Territory police
                           brutally assaulting people who questioned COVID Intervention
              d. caused immediate and ongoing harm to the wealth and health of Australians on a
                   massive scale.
    4.        COVID Vaccines
              a. are TGA provisionally approved only and not tested to the standards of fully
                   approved vaccines
              b. distribute throughout the entire body into all major organs including but not limited
                   to the brain, ovaries and liver etc by way of being encased in nanoparticles that can
                   cross all of the natural barriers in the body
              c. changes the functioning of the machinery in millions of cells causing a foreign spike
                   protein to be exhibited on the surface (cells in vital organs of particular concern)
              d. the immune system presumably kills those cells (former GOV Chief Health Officer
                   could not answer whether cells were killed while testifying in a senate hearing)
              e. cost in excess of $17 billion purchased in secret contracts and
              f.   appeared to not have the confidence regarding safety of the AMA who campaigned
                   and received indemnity for the medical profession

                                                       End



Page 3 of 3
