To the attention of The Covid Response Enquiry:                                         12/12/2023



Thank you for receiving my Submission.

My name is Rob Shaw; the following is a briefing into my family’s situation.

                11 worked in positions as senior pharmacy technicians for a combined total of
25 years of service within the Healthcare industry. Our duties chiefly entailed making compound
medications for distribution to hospitals throughout Western Australia. We were highly motivated
and enjoyed our position at Baxter Healthcare. Our work was acknowledged with positive
feedback, pay rises and I won multiple employee of the year awards.

 It was completely devastating when we were forced to leave our long term careers due to the
Covid Vaccination mandated cut-off dates. Our employer was compelled to enforce the
Government's mandated position; and we lost our careers and our ability to provide for our
family financially and independently.

Our subsequent personal family circumstances became only dire and fast. We were both now
out of work but with no pause to our expenses.the financial
situation which was thrust upon us the strain on the family unit was immense. I had to negotiate
with the Bank to put our mortgage payments on hold, however all to no avail we had to sell our
home: Worse, also during this time ■


I was unable to find work and had applied for over 60 positions.We had to move to NSW where
              ■ could provide some support. Now, in NSW I have found employment in the car
industry and currently, I am now working in the Disability sector.

It has cost us; our mental health, our physical health, our careers and we have been financially
wiped out and our security and independence has been severely compromised. We now live in
a state of constant anxiety over job security and our future. Being charitable; we are highly
distrustful of the Government now and the way in which the whole Covid Pandemic matter was
executed.

We are aware that the damage by the mandates to some families have been worse. I strongly
believe our basic Human Rights have been trampled on by the State for a perceived
non-compliance. I also note: All the Premiers have now left the stage with their Parliamentary
pensions, real estate portfolios and further career opportunities all intact safe in their collective
recalcitrance. While my family is forgotten on the scrap heap and punished for asking questions
and yet, receiving no reliable answers: Why?
I thank the members for your time and consideration with this, my submission.



Yours Sincerely,



Rob Shaw & family
