                                                                                  13/12/23

Dear COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce,

RE: Submission and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I have been employed by the NSW Department of Education since 2009 and consider myself to be a highly dedicated
and passionate^J teacher. I was investigated by the Professional and Ethical Standards (PES), who I believe was
extremely unprofessional and unethical, making false accusations about me not completing the VACS attest. As a
result of the PES investigation, I was sacked from my fulltime position, in November 2021, for refusing the jab. The
year prior, I was considered a 'Hero', working tirelessly to provide students with Home Learning opportunities and
caring for students of other Essential workers. I was considered a threat to students and staff for being unvaccinated
and threatened to be removed by Police from the school grounds if I attended work. This news was immensely
heartbreaking and stressful for me and the other Teachers who refused the jab.

At the time of writing this response, I have still not had COVID-19. I have relied on my natural immunity, eaten
healthy foods, taken supplements including Zinc, spent time in the sunshine, maintained my fitness, socialised and
not worn a mask.

Below are some key points, as to why I believe the mandates were not necessary or justified, summarised from the

Journal of Clinical & Experimental Immunology ISSN'. 2475-6296

COVID-19 vaccines - An Australian Review



Submitted: 10 Sep 2022; Accepted: 12 Sep 2022; Published: 21 Sep 2022

(please refer to the full article for the References).

    •   The mRNA vaccines were supposed to remain at the injection site and be taken up by the lymphatic system.
        This assumption proved to be wrong. During an autopsy of a vaccinated person that had died after mRNA
        vaccination it was found that the vaccine disperses rapidly from the injection site and can be found in nearly
        all parts of the body [1]. The mRNA is enveloped in liquid nano particles (LNP) containing a mixture of
        hospholipids, cholesterol, PEGylated lipids and cationic or ionizable lipids [2]. Research has
        shown that such nanoparticles can cross the blood-brain barrier [3] and the blood-placenta barrier [4]. In
        summary, it is unknown where exactly the vaccine travels once it is injected, and how much spike protein is
        produced in which (and how many) cells.
    •   Normally, mRNA breaks down within a few minutes to hours, however, the mRNA in these vaccines is
        nucleoside-modified to reduce potential innate immune recognition [6, 7] and it has been shown that
        production of the spike protein in some vaccines is kept up for an extraordinarily long time. A study by
                        [8] found that the vaccine mRNA persists in the body up to 60 days, with 60 days being the end
        poin^Hneir study.
    •       The spike protein in itself can produce COVID- 19 symptoms as shown in animal experiments.
    •   mRNA vaccines seem to suppress interferon responses [25]. A literature review by Cardozo and Veazev [26]
        concluded that COVID-19 vaccines could potentially worsen COVID-19 disease through antibody-dependent
        enhancement when natural infection occurs after vaccination.
    •   There have been discussions about risk and value of vaccination in the previously infected part of the
        population. Study results have shown that the second dose in people already exposed to the virus leads to a
        reduction of cellular immunity, inferring those individuals previously infected with COVID-19 should not get a
        seconcHniection [30]. _________
    •       ■■iHHi(2021) and                    et al- (2021) both showed that the vaccinated have very high viral loads
        similar to the unvaccinated and are therefore as infectious [35, 36].
    •   Countries with higher vaccination rates have also higher caseloads. It was shown that the median of new
        COVID-19 cases per 100,000 people was largely similar to the percent of the fully vaccinated population [39].
    •   Multiple recent studies have indicated that the vaccinated are more likely to be infected with Omicron than
        the unvaccinated. A study by^^H(2021) from Denmark suggests that people who received the mRNA
        vaccines are up to eight times more likely to develop Omicron than those who did not [40].



                                                                                                                         1
•   A recent peer-reviewed review paper by one of the world's most cited and respected scientist, Professor
                  Stanford University notes, the chances of someone under 50 years old with symptoms dying from
    COVID-19 is 0.05%.
•   An abundance of studies has shown that the mRNA vaccines are neither safe nor effective, but outright
    dangerous. Never in vaccine history have we seen
    1011 case studies showing side effects of a vaccine (https://www.saveusnow.org.uk/covid-vaccine-scientific-
    proof-lethal).
•   The vaccine is in trial phase and has been linked to not only instant side effects but also short to medium­
    term side effects [44].^^|et al. (2022)
    highlighted just a few of these side effects, such as miscarriage,
    foetal death and malformation, chronic autoimmune disease,
    permanent immune deficiency syndrome, chronic permanent CNS
    diseases and chronic cognitive disorders, seizure disorders. Not enough time has passed since administration
    of the first injections to know what the long-term effects might be. (Unlike traditional vaccines e.g. Childhood
    Schedule)
•   From US life insurance reports we know that the all-cause death rates were up 40% in ages 18-64 years by
    the end of Q3 2021, and according to life insurance companies there are 100,000 excess deaths per month in
    the US in all age groups, which cannot be attributed to COVID-19 alone [46]. In 2022 in Australia, there were
    approximately 12% (20,000) more deaths than the projections estimated.
•   Emergency use authorization was granted by the FDA and the TGA (in Australia). Therefore, these treatments
    are still in trial phase and all patients treated with them are trial participants.
•   A request for full transparency of the Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial data has been made to the Pharmaceutical
    companies, which to this day are inaccessible.
•   Adults from 30 to 39 are 7 times more likely to die from vaccination. The authors concluded that the
    protection from COVID-19 death falls far short of the risk of dying from the vaccine for people below 50 years
    old [51],
•        In a letter to the editor         (2022) sums up the literature pointing to the fact that 8 months after
    being vaccinated twice the immune functions are less than those of an unvaccinated person according to a
    study by^^^^^J et al (2022) [61]. Booster shots can impair immunity due to a variety of factors leading
    to the recommendation to discontinue further booster shoots.
•        It is an amazing fact that natural immunity is completely disregarded
    by health authorities around the world. We know from SARSCoV-1 that natural immunity is durable and
    persists for at least 12-17 years [17]. Immunologists have suggested that immunity to SARS-Cov-2 is no
    different. The four human coronaviruses that cause common colds are also endemic, without there ever
    havin^eer^n/accine for any of them.
•        pointed out this troubling situation in an article published by the^^^^^^l
    ^^^^^■byciting three studies where we see this emerging situation of the vaccinated increasingly being
    infected and transmitting the virus. The study by^^Het al. reported a seminal nosocomial outbreak
    occurring in fully vaccinated Hospital Care workers (HCW) in Vietnam in 2021 [32].
•   Multiple recent studies have indicated that the vaccinated are more likely to be infected with Omicron than
    the unvaccinated. A study by ^^■(2021) from Denmark suggests that people who received the mRNA
    vaccines are up to eight times more likely to develop Omicron than those who did not [40].
•   A worldwide Bayesian causal Impact analysis suggests that COVID-19 gene therapy (mRNA vaccine) causes
    more COVID-19 cases per million and more non-Covid deaths per million than are associated with COVID-19
    [43]. An abundance of studies has shown that the mRNA vaccines are neither safe nor effective, but outright
    dangerous.
•   Adults from 30 to 39 are 7 times more likely to die from vaccination and those aged 40 to 49 are 5 times
    more likely to die after vaccination. (51)
•   It is truly disturbing that treatments recommended by doctors in America, some of them having successfully
    treated COVID-19 patients, including very sick patients, have not been investigated in Australia. These
    treatments are mainly based on vitamins, zinc and zinc ionophores, such as ivermectin or hydroxychloroquine.
    Thyecommendation is to treat as early as possible. Scientific papers support the use of ivermectin according
    to          et al. [62]. They found moderate to strong evidence that ivermectin can reduce COVID-19 deaths
    while being safe and inexpensive.
•   The Australian government strongly advises not to use the following treatment for COVID-19 off label:
    Ivermectin, doxycycline, zinc and hydroxychloroquine (https://www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-
    19/treatments).
•   Just to name a few short-term side effects: Death, Cardiac disorders
    such as Myocarditis, Blood and lymphatic system disorders, such as blood clots, thrombocytopenia, low
    platelet count, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, capillary leakage syndrome, Congenital and genetic
                                                                                                                   2
        disorders, Eye disorders, Immune disorders, Muscular, skeletal and connective tissue disorders, Cancerous
        tumours,
        Nervous system disorders, Pregnancy and perinatal conditions, Guillain-Barre syndrome and the list goes on.
    •   The Australian Bureau of statistics has just released the national death rate for March 20, 2021 up until 31
        March 2022 (registered by 31 May 2022) as 44,331, which according to their own statement lies 6,609
        (17.5%) above the historical average. These extra deaths cannot be explained by COVID alone (Fig 2) which
        is responsible for less than half of the excess deaths in the first 4 months of 2022 in Australia. Cancer,
        diabetes and neurodegenerative diseases are all above the baseline in this time frame
        (https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health/causes-death/provisional-mortality-statistics/latest-
        release?fbclid=IwAR3fpywSvxWCXTRUaZx99M6s_w_
        kBRdMa3b_13msQ3bNPRanFjGHi-wWTZQ).

    •        The overall death rate for the unvaccinated was 17% while for the vaccinated it was 83%.
    •        In January 2022 the "Save us now" organisation put together a list
        of 1011 case studies reporting side effects after vaccination (Table 1) (https://www.saveusnow.org.uk/covid-
        vaccine-scientific-prooflethal/).
        Most of these side effects have not been listed in any of the vaccine brochures or on the Australian
        Government websites.
    •   COVID-19 vaccines cause more side effects than any other vaccine, a fact that is attributed to its interactions
        with the immune system. Not only does spike protein produces unwanted side effects, but mRNA and
        nanoparticles do as well^^^Het al [15]
    •   Long-term risks of vaccination as predicted by scientists, many already validated by scientists and doctors:
        Vaccine-induced autoimmunity, pathogenic priming, multisystem inflammatory disease and autoimmunity,
        antibody dependent enhancement (ADE), activation of latent viral infections,
        neurodegeneration and prion disease, increased thrombosis, cardiomyopathy and other vascular events
        following vaccination, babies suffering enduring adverse consequences, mRNA reverse transcribing
        intracellularly into the DNA and death due to autoimmune disease long after vaccination [78-84].
    •        According to an interview in February 2022                   who is currently fighting in court against the
        vaccine mandates, an evaluation of the TGA repo^^eveale^mat Australia's average of adverse events after
        vaccination since 1971 up to 2020 is recorded as 2.4 death per year and up to 3,500 adverse events per
        annum. Since the rollout of the COVID vaccines there have been 755 deaths and 105,000 adverse events in a
        year with these figures likely to be underreported, https://rumble.com/vtv5pe-juliangillespie-
        update-on-avn-judicial-review-to-stop-vaccines-inaustrali. html?fbclid=IwAR34RTAAYX_nf9eTelLOJSxuZO-
        TbUFasXPQ37qhPEqrQI9wNe8Yig4ZwQ8


In addition, The Database of Adverse Event Notifications (DAEN) produced by the Australian Government's
Therapeutic Goods Administration has Reported Deaths: 1006 Reported Cases: 139,596. I was not prepared to be one
of these statistics. I also believe these statistics are severely underreported and misleading.

I was also sacked from my role as Secretary on the Board of|
                                   H I had volunteered my time for 17 years. Another disgraceful decision, that
impacts the youth of today.

I hope the abovementioned points support my Covid-19 Inquiry submission, in seeking compensation for losing my
permanent Teaching position of over a decade with the NSW Department of Education and brining justice to the
Politicians who made these poor decisions, that were not in the best interest of Australian's health. I look forward to
hearing your response.

Kind Regards, Jesse (Jessica) Jeanes




                                                                                                                           3
