                          Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                I the Members of the Independent Panel,

   I am writing this submission to voice my deep concerns over many facets of Australia's
  draconian response to the COVID-19 pandemic. While I understand the importance of the
    Inquiry's goal to improve pandemic preparedness, there are critical areas that require
              thorough scrutiny yet appear to fall outside the ambit of this inquiry.


                           Concerns Over Specific Pandemic Measures
Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had and
continue to exert a significant negative impact on individual freedoms and social dynamics
and employment opportunities for those who, for personal reasons, did not submit to the
vaccines. These measures, often invasive, warrant a detailed review to assess their necessity,
effectiveness, and proportionality.


    Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, personal and psychological impacts of
lockdowns and curfews have been profound. An evaluation of these measures is essential to
  understand their long-term effects on Australian society and whether they were the most
                                        appropriate response.


  Communication Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use offear in
 public health messaging. It's important to analyse whether such communication strategies
     were effective or whether they contributed to unnecessary panic and distress in the
  community. It is difficult for the public to remain clear-headed and calm when fear-based
 propaganda was being pumped out at every turn-from signage everywhere to television,
   social media, shopping and medical clinic PA systems, schools etc. Australian children's
mental health was very badly affected by the extended lockdowns (especially for those of us
    in Melbourne) and the sudden ceasing of so much that makes life enjoyable for them.


                    Concerns Over the Composition c               pe of the Inquiry
Panel Composition: The appointment of Inquiry panel members who have previously
expressed support for certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity and
impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel members who have expressed support for such measures
should recuse themselves.
Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One of the most significant
omissions in the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion of actions taken unilaterally by state and territory
governments. These decisions, including state-imposed lockdowns and border controls, were pivotal
to the nation's pandemic response and should be included in the Inquiry.
The Need for a Comprehensive Review

  While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above-mentioned
    areas are not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all aspects of the
                    government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope.


  This submission represents a call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation into Australia's
                                                 COVID-19 response.


                                             astrous failure in so many areas.


There was so much wrong in the official government handling of Covid19 in our nation, that it is hard
        to know where to begin. Here are some of the disgraceful policies and travesties ofjustice:


    •               The extreme censorship of medical professionals and anyone questioning official policies,
    •               The banning of effective alternative early treatments for the virus (such as the ivermectin
                protocol),
            •       the fear campaign and state propaganda made possible by a largely unquestioning and
                                                     sensationalist media
        •        the willingness to sacrifice our children's welfare and mental and social health in order to
                     "protect" very elderly people who could have been protected without destroying life
                                    opportunities and the economy for future generations,
    •            the appalling and overt discrimination against unvaccinated citizens who for endless months
                  were locked out of employment, council facilities, shops, cafes, cinemas, restaurants etc.


                                Irrational CovidIQ regulations and double standards.


I urge for freedoms and human rights to never again be trampled upon with draconian government-
imposed measures -many of which were not based on scientific facts but on political and financial
agendas and deals made with lobby groups, Billion dollar Pharmaceutical companies and minor
parties in exchange for political favours. The following examples give a sample of the ridiculous,
unjust and anti-family regulations in Victoria at certain points of the various lockdowns:


One could legally                                           prostitutes yet could not have a family meal with
 one's parents- even though they desperately yearned for that social interaction. You could not take
children to a playground but could shop at the liquor store. People could not have a haircut at a hair
salon but could take a dog to a pet-grooming place. One could have an abortion, but not hold a baby
  shower for a lonely pregnant friend. Expansive, airy Churches were closed yet supermarkets were
 crowded with bored people who had no other social outlet. Oddly, the state's euthanasia program
kept killing Victorians all the while telling us how tragic was the death of people in their 80s and 90s-
  as long as they died of covid19. It seemed that deaths from all other causes (including lockdown -
induced suicides) did not concern the Victorian government at all. Our young people could go to drug
 injecting rooms for a state sponsored heroin injection, but were banned from surfing, swimming in
 the ocean, playing golf, tennis or skiing with their friends. Yet these open-air sports are clearly such
 healthy past-times and so much better for young people than staying at home most likely spending
time on their screens. Our L-Plate driver missed out on accumulating his required 120 hours of driving
   practice due to nonsensical rules which forbade taking our L-platers for a driving lesson during
lockdowns when streets were quiet and no Covid 19 danger was posed to anyone, as there were only
 2 related people in the car. This put the whole 2020-2021 cohort at a disadvantage and held them
 back for 2 years from both learning to drive and all the opportunities that this affords. The lack of
logic in so many of the rules frustrated citizens and unnecessarily and disproportionately harmed our
  school-age and young people, including my own children in this age group. They have missed life
  milestones for no good reason as virtually everyone contracted covid regardless of whether they
   were vaccinated or not. Infections were not severe in the vast majority of healthy people so we
 should have let people determine what risks were acceptable to them. A targeted policy where we
   isolated those who were sick, vulnerable, obese or elderly or those who were concerned about
 contracting the virus or who were in nursing homes and therefore at higher risk of hospitalisation
  would have caused less damage to our younger generations and to the economy. If there ever is
 another similar pandemic, people should be free to determine the level of risk they are prepared to
   take. It is hypocritical to allow a sick person to legally kill themselves via Victoria's euthanasia
 program but for a healthy person to not be permitted to take a tiny risk in catching what for most
                      people (vaccinated or unvaccinated) is just a flu-like cold.


   The fact that the vaccines neither prevented those jabbed from being infected by Covid 19 nor
   stopped its transmission to others, should be investigated, given that these were the supposed
justifications for vaccine mandates - which are still being imposed on healthcare and aged care and
                disability workers in some states. These should be urgently repealed.


                                               Conclusion



      I urge the Inquiry to consider these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the
safeguarding of Australian values, human rights and freedoms and to take a critical look at the lack
of scientific reasoning in so many covidl9 policies and rules forced upon us during those awful years
   and to repeal all covid19 vaccine mandates to allow the thousands of unvaccinated nurses and
  health professionals to re-enter the workforce and reduce the shortage of such staff in Victoria .
