Ref: ANON-JU7T-6M9N-M
NB. Corrections to your code "ANON"-JU7T-6M9N-M and alphabetical listing of ONLINE responses       9/12/2023

Dear Pandemic Inquiry Panel: Ms Kruk AO, Professor Bennett and Dr. Angela Jackson

Please refer to this updated PDF Submission which I have also attempted to copy online at your request. I am visually
impaired and request that you refer to this attached PDF version of which I have a hard copy for my convenience.
Please also refer to the other attachments that may assist you in your Inquiry. The following is my public Submission:

Introduction

The Treasury analysis of the 89bn jobkeeper program as reported                              in THE NATION, Weekend
Australian, December 23-24, 2023, is confirmation that the Panel's Inquiry cannot ignore the impact of State and
Territory Vaccine Mandates and coercive Public Health Emergency Measures.
As the owner of the website: www.pesticideactiongroupwa.com I have a long association with citizens who are deeply
concerned about the adverse effects of toxic chemicals on our environment and well-being, particularly the
disproportionate effect of a cocktail of "lawful" and widely- used poisons on the developing child and teenagers.
During the WHO's declared Pandemic, as a parent and grandparent, I became drawn to question the Government's
narrative and rejected the increasingly irrational fear and coercive medical interventions that were implemented in
Australia and other affluent member nations of the WHO. I sought and received independent legal advice that
confirmed my fears that many of our families and friends had become the victims of fundamental human rights abuse,
medical coercion, loss of medical privacy and freedom from medical experimentation. Taking control of my health as
I had done for most of my adult life as a parent and grandparent suddenly became taboo and cast me into a separate
social class. Fortunately, I was able to meet and liaise with concerned citizens, scientists, doctors, nurses, farmers,
teachers, police, lawyers and a few outspoken Members of Parliament. Australians were experiencing a questionable
and extremely disturbing shift to totalitarian governance under the pretext of a public health emergency

Former Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, misleadingly publicly claimed to Australians that there were no vaccine
mandates in the full knowledge that mandates were implemented in the States and Territories, contrary to Australia's
obligations to International Human Rights covenants, the WHO's International Health Regulations (IHR) as well as
the Australian Immunization Register Act 2015 and the Australian Immunization Handbook Guidelines.

"We do not have a mandatory vaccination policy in this country. We are not proposing that. That is not changing," he told
reporters in Canberra on Friday following a national cabinet meeting.
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/scott-morrison-rules-out-mandatory-covid-19-vaccine-policy-says-employers-must-
make-their-own-decisions/65gqoqp7i

In the Prime Minister's commitment to spending billions of taxpayer dollars in the purchase of novel mRNA so-called
vaccines, and in former Health Minister Greg Hunt's commitment to contribute "important data" on the post
market/post vaccination monitoring of the "PROVISIONALLY APPROVED" novel mRNA so-called vaccines, the stage
was set for Australia's draconian role in the global Pandemic fear-mongering and the "vaccine" solution to preventing
serious ill health and death. Vaccination coercion was systemic in Government and mainstream media. Prime Minister
Morrison and Health Minister Hunt were complicit in medical coercion and vaccine mandates

Mr McGowan said the changes would allow West Australians visiting public venues to be confident they were
"only mixing with other vaccinated people less likely to be carrying or able to pass on" CO VID. He also flagged he expected
the Commonwealth Government would at some point redefine "fully vaccinated" to mean three doses rather than two — and
WA would follow suit when that occurred, effectively making boosters compulsory.
Under the new rules, anyone aged 16 and over will be required to produce proof of double-dose vaccination to visit all
hospitality venues — including restaurants, cafes, bars and pubs — as well as all indoor entertainment venues, such as Crown
Perth, cinemas, theatres and museums. Gyms and fitness studios will be off limits to the unvaccinated, as will visits to
hospitals and aged-care homes, music festivals, amusement parks, Perth Zoo and major stadiums.

https://thewest.com.au/news/coronavirus/covid-19-in-wa-mark-mcgowan-about-to-make-life-very-difficult-for-the-
unyaccinated2C;5297834

For your information I have attached other submissions on related issues. It is a sad fact that the events of recent years
have led many Australians to lose trust in our major political parties, our state and federal parliamentary procedures
and the claimed independence of Government Inquiries. The blatant systemic censorship across mainstream media
and all levels of Government has resulted in a dystopian world where lies, denial of free speech, injustice in the
treatment of peaceful protestors ludicrous redaction of FOI documents and elected Members of Parliament failing to
represent their constituents, have become standard practice in what was once a world class democratic country.

Question 1. How can international cooperation be improved to more effectively prevent, prepare for, and respond
to, future pandemics and other international health emergencies?

a.  Australia and Member Nations should never again blindly follow the recommendations of the
Pharmaceutical/biotech- captured World Health Organization and its major funders who benefit financially from the
WHO's recommendations on Pandemics/Epidemics. This is fundamental.

b.   Australia and Member Nations should NOT accept proposed amendments to Article I International Health
Regulations which delete the words "non-binding". The WHO Recommendations must remain NON- BINDING.

c.     Australia should NOT accept amendments to Article 3 of the International Health Regulations which states as
follows:
Article 3 Principles 1. The implementation of these Regulations shall be with full respect for the dignity, human rights and
fundamental freedoms of persons. These rights should always be protected under IHR.

d.    The International Health Regulations contained Human Rights protections for the individual which were blatantly
breached in Australia as well as in Member Nations such as Canada and New Zealand. Freedom of speech, medical
privacy, freedom from medical coercion, medical interventions and experimentation, must be protected by the IHR

e.   The Australian Federal and State Governments violated International Human Rights, the Australian Immunization
Handbook and the Australian Immunization Register Act, 2015 by implementing totalitarian Covid-19 State of
Emergency Management measures using Vaccine Commanders and police officers to enforce vaccine mandates,
population-wide vaccination programs and censorship of public debate under a misleading public health narrative..

f.   The fundamental human rights of Australians to freedom of speech, bodily autonomy and informed consent to
medical intervention should never again be violated.

g.   The false and misleading inclusion of the word "vaccines" in Article I of the International Health Regulations "Health
Products" definitions is unacceptable. It must be acknowledged that this is offensive to the many thousands of people
who were injured or whose loved ones died following vaccination. This word "vaccine" was applied to many Covid-19
experimental drugs that were inherently toxic, inadequately safety-tested, including vials found to contain
contaminants/DNA damaging Genetically Modified mRNA. One seriously injured young mother in Perth referred to
her batch FH3221 as the "Death Batch".

h.     Most sane Australians would object to any involvement in Gain-of- Function Research with PANDEMIC Potential.
The POLITICAL DECLARATION to be adopted on 20 September 2023, the FINAL TEXT FOR SILENCE PROCEDURE, Political
Declaration of the UNITED NATIONS General Assembly High-level Meeting on Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response
states: OP14. "Promote the fair, equitable and timely sharing of benefits arising from the use of PATHOGENS, sequences or any
other materials, with PANDEMIC potential through a multilateral system taking into account relevant national and
international laws, regulations, obligations and frameworks, in line with the work being undertaken in other relevant areas
and by other United Nations and multilateral organizations or agencies, particularly the ongoing discussions of the International
Negotiating Body and Working Group on Amendments to the International Health Regulations (2005} in Geneva"
This will perpetuate the cycle of dangerous viruses and HIGH-RISK novel vaccines.
https://sdg.iisd.org/news/un-bodies-formalize-silence-procedure-for-decision-making-during-pandemic/

i.    Public debate on health and environmental matters should not be censored. Independent medical professionals
have been ignored whilst influential individuals such as Bill Gates without medical expertise, are given undue attention.

j.   The WHO's One Health and Pandemic preparedness and response statements pretend to be about Public Health
and Well-being. Australia should exit the WHO and not sign the PANDEMIC Treaty under current circumstances.

k.   Member Nations should not fund the WHO's pharmaceutical novel drugs and "vaccine" response to future declared
epidemics/pandemics because the Organization cannot be trusted to provide sound and credible advice
I, International cooperation should fund better health outcomes by Preventative Medicine such as better sanitation
and living conditions, basic hygiene, healthy water and food, good nutritional and lifestyle advice to better protect
population health and mental well-being.

m. It should be unlawful for the Pharmaceutical Industry to have undue influence on the decision-making processes
of Industry Regulators such as the Therapeutic Goods Administration, TGA, the Australian Technical Advisory Group
on Immunization, ATAGI, the Australian Health Practitioners Registration Agency, AHPRA and the many entities that
have profited from the WHO's Covid-19 Pandemic Response Recommendations to Member Nations

o. Australian politicians, bureaucrats and the community should engage in open debate about the tragic failures of
the Covid-19 response and the WHO's plans to control the global population Health Response according to LEGALLY
BINDING recommendations that meet the needs of those with a vested interest: the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation, the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness
Innovations, and not the needs of public health and well-being.

Modern Medicine's Great Controversy | Dr. Peter McCullough - YouTube

Question 2.       What issues do you think need to be prioritised to guide the world's future preparation for, and
responses to, future pandemics and other international health emergencies?

a. Stop listening to the industry-captured WHO and its false claims about the need for a novel vaccine public health
response that we know serves to transfer precious national health budgets into the hands of those with a financial
interest:^^^^^^^^^^^Hand those who have profited from this global scam of a self- perpetuating toxic cycle.

b. Acknowledge the views of community stakeholders, independent scientists and Australian medical professionals

c.   Acknowledge the WHO's lack of accountability and insatiable global public health power grab.

d. Stop the totalitarian medical coercion and military-style "Vaccine Commanders"; restore our Human Rights.

e. Stop AHPRA's gag orders and the de-registration of good doctors who respect patients under their Hippocratic Oath

f.   Stop the whole of government Covid-19 Pandemic cover-up. What the Review Heard (from the WA Inquiry);

Vaccine mandates, their efficacy and concerns regarding adverse reactions, were significant themes raised throughout the Review,
with more than 70 per cent of public submissions focused on these topics. The vaccine mandate received substantial criticism in
some public submissions as an imposition on individual freedoms, while other submissions raised concerns about the safety of
COVID-19 vaccines and the incidence of adverse events following immunisation. The Review has noted the strength of the opinions
voiced against vaccine mandates, both within Australia and abroad..."
https://www.wa.gov.au/system/files/2023-08/reviewofwascovidl9managementandresponseaccessible.pdf

g. Acknowledge the WHO as the instigator of the Pandemic fear -mongering and high-risk emergency measures.

h. Health Ministers, Chief Medical/ Health Officers should always respect medical privacy and informed consent.

Question 3.   Is there any other information you would like t( provide that might help to guide Australia's
engagement on a new international pandemic instrument and changes to the IHR?

a. Australia should not be a signatory to a Pandemic treaty/ instrument / contract because details and amendments
have not been released by our DELEGATES on the WHO/IHR/UN committees for PUBLIC scrutiny and consideration.

b. The WHO and its International Health Regulations Committees have operated largely behind closed doors to discuss
questionable Amendments that will legally bind signatory nations and further remove fundamental Human Rights

c.   The Government and mainstream media should give a voice to the numerous outstanding individuals reaching
concerned audiences via Substack, the Australian Medical Professionals Society (AMPS), medical experts such as
Cardiologists^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^fand Naturopathic experts dedicated to our well-being and
support for the human immune system.
