I would like to share some of what I experienced and witnessed during the
Pandemic. I would like to be able to share much more, however, the terms of
reference are very limited. I trust that what I share will be helpful in making
meaningful change.
Health Response
Every Australian should have the freedom and responsibility to determine their
healthcare with their medical practitioner. Sadly, the sacred doctor-patient
relationship and our fundamental freedoms were severely damaged over the course
of the Pandemic. Our Constitutional rights were trampled on.
I was not given a meaningful treatment regime when I tested positive to the COVID-
19 virus nor was anyone I know. I was told to isolate and if I deteriorated to go to
hospital. I did not see our Federal Government provide COVID-19 treatment guides
on their relevant websites. I believe this is a significant failure on the part of
Governments and Health Professionals. I only ever heard one narrative and that
was to ensure you are vaccinated, but vaccination is not a treatment. I had to do lots
of personal research when I tested positive to the COVID-19 virus. Doctors should
have been providing treatment regimens to those effected by the virus. There are
effective ways of treating the COVID-19 virus as outlined by Dr Peter A McCullough,
who is a respected cardiologist and epidemiologist and who has published many
peer-reviewed papers on the subject. There are simple steps that can be followed
that would minimise the effects, and if implemented at the start of the illness, could
have prevented unnecessary deaths.
I live alone and found the lockdowns very difficult. The very long lockdowns were
incredibly damaging to many Australians, particularly those living alone and in small
dwellings. The Government could have saved a lot of money that was spent on
mental health issues had they not had the extended lockdowns, which I believe were
unwarranted. I could not travel more than 5km to visit family. No man is an island,
we need each other. We are designed to be socially interacting with others.
One of my ^^^^^^^^^^uffered an adverse reaction after having his first
injection. His GP told him he had Myocarditis and yet his GP said it was OK to have
the second dose. He was given very little support while he was not able to work.
This put him and his family under huge amounts of financial pressure.
Discrimination
In my opinion there was government overreach within the small businesses sector. I
witnessed discrimination against those who chose not to be vaccinated. I was out
buying a coffee at a cafe in my local neighbourhood when I witnessed another
customer being denied the right to sit in an outdoor cafe area because they chose
not to be vaccinated. It was very discriminatory. The cafe owner was fearful of being
closed down, so they were enforcing these discriminatory actions.
The unvaccinated could not visit the hairdresser, visit restaurants, attend Christmas
parties, attend Church (which should have been seen as an essential service). This
should not be the case in any future pandemics. The Federal government did not
introduce any anti-discrimination legislation.
I was personally not able to attend my father’s funeral because of border lockdowns.
This was very cruel. I believe exceptions could have been made.
These are a few of my experiences and that of others I know.
