                   Bereavement during COVID-9 Study - Summary

We are pleased to submit this report on an MRFF funded study through the University of Technology, Sydney
which assessed the mental outcomes and support needs of people bereaved during the COVID-19 pandemic from
January 2020 to February 2022. The study was undertaken by Nationally and Internationally respected
researchers including, psychologists, clinicians, social workers, bereavement counsellors as well as consumers.

The study has made over 100 recommendations which were co-designed at National workshops with
stakeholders. We have been working on preparing reports and publications related to this project.




  To cite this publication: Bereavement outcomes in          Project Manager
  Australia during the COVID-19 pandemic: Final report fit
  recommendations. Lobb, EA., Maccallum, F., Ivynian,
  S. Sydney 2023.

                                                             Research Assistants
  Funded by the Medical Research Future Fund
  - Coronavirus Research Response ■ 2020COVID-19 Mental
  Health Research Grant Opportunity - MRF2005576




      We thank the bereaved participants who gave so generously of their time in completing our
      surveys and participating in interviews. We thank the multicultural health workers who
      gave of their time in interviews, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander investigators and the
      members of the reference group and the Community Elders who were willing to be
      involved in Study 4.
                                            Main messages


Context
The COVID-19 pandemic changed how we live, die and grieve. During the
first two years of the pandemic 334,700 Australians died in these
circumstances, including 2,251 from COVID-19.111

Australians faced some of the strictest COVID-19 public health
measures globally. End-of-life care and bereavement practices were
significantly disrupted due to community fears of contracting the virus,
public health measures introduced to reduce infection rates and protect
healthcare workers, and the re-deployment of frontline workers to other
roles. The burden of such strict public health orders was experienced
differently by States, regions and cultural groups.

Many families and friends were left to grieve alone and in isolation, unable to
visit their dying person, and unable to either receive or give physical support
to each other. Many face-to-face support services closed or switched to
online delivery, and mental health support services were overwhelmed
by general demand within the community. The cumulative impacts of
these circumstances on end-of-life care and bereavement responses raise
the potential of significant negative mental health costs for the person
themselves, the health care systems, and society.
                                                                                  Over 2000 people
The Bereavement during COVID-19 Study documented the
experiences of Australians bereaved, from any cause, during the first
                                                                                  responded to
two years of the COVID-19 pandemic. The aim was to hear their stories,            an onl le survey
establish their mental health and support needs, and inform policy                and 100 of these
planning for future pandemics. In doing so the study also identified a            par ci pa ted
range of pre-existing cracks within the system.
                                                                                   n additional
Interviews were also held with multicultural health care workers.                  i terviews
Recommendations based on the findings were developed in collaboration
with consumers, key stakeholders and community organisations.

                                                                                  Mult cultural health
                                                                                  workers were
                                                                                  i iterv ?wed about
                                                                                  the experience of
                                                                                  their commun es


                                                                                  Recommendat ons
                                                                                  were developed
                                                                                  i i collaborai on
                                                                                  with consumers,
           Bereavement
        7^ During                                                                 key stakeholders
      3    COVID-19                                                               and commur ty
                                                                                  orgar sations.
Conclusions                                        Key findings

The COVID-19 pandemic introduced                            Many bereaved people experienced
extraordinary challenges for individuals,                   high levels of grief, depression and
society and for end-of-life and bereavement                 anxiety, indicating the pandemic
care, and simultaneously exposed significant                and related restrictions were
pre-existing gaps within healthcare,                        associated with adverse impacts on
administrative and support systems.                         bereavement.

The lessons learned from this pandemic can
help us better prepare and coordinate our                   Disruptions to the ability to care for
approach to death and dying to minimise
negative consequences of public health
measures and fragmented systems.
                                                    Q       the dying person and the experience of
                                                            social isolation and loneliness were
                                                            linked with worse mental
                                                            health outcomes
Specific patterns of intense and chronic grief
reactions are associated with negative
long-term health outcomes that can be                       Inconsistent and changing rules
reduced through specialist interventions.                   across States, Territories and health
                                                            settings were a source of confusion,
                                                            fear, frustration, anger, guilt,
                                                            stigma, and despair for the bereaved
            Bereavement care must be


  0         elevated within pandemic
            planning and health care
            processes to address the gaps

                                                      ♦♦
                                                            Services and supports were often not
                                                            available, not offered, or varied
                                                            in their quality. This was a source
                                                            of distress
            Basic bereavement outreach
            should be implemented to prepare
            families for the death of their                Although high quality resources have been
            loved ones and supporting                      developed, there was a lack of provision of
            them afterwards is essential                   information about grief and support
                                                           services
To achieve this, a National Pandemic
Bereavement Preparedness Plan, created in
collaboration with relevant stakeholders (i.e.,             Many reported unmet needs for
consumers, grief and loss professionals, health,            social, community and professional
                                                            supports
funeral, coronial services, government and
support services) is required.

This is essential to mitigate poor bereavement
outcomes and better support people who are                  There were long waitlists for
dying and the grief of their families.                      accessing support from mental health
                                                            professionals and mixed experiences
                                                            with the consultations. Experiences with
                                                            telehealth, support lines, and self-help
                                                            resources were also mixed



                                                            Interactions with many
                                                    K0      government services and
                                                      M     administrative processes were
                                                            experienced as lacking in
            Bereavement
                                                            compassion or an understanding
            During
                                                            of grief and bereavement
            COVID-19
