Glenn Seymon




Dear Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

Thank you for taking the time to read my submission. Given the three-page limit, I will attempt to summarise my key
points. However, please note there are many more issues that could and should be investigated.

General

Human rights were thrown out the window. This includes the right of peaceful assembly which is protected under
Article 21 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.

Decisions came from National Cabinet which has no line of authority in the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution.

The Governor General facilitated the swearing in of the then Prime Minister to multiple positions without the
knowledge or consent of the actual minister, or the public.

Masks

There were many peer-reviewed published studies showing that masks are ineffective in preventing the transmission
and contraction of influenza-like illnesses, yet they were mandated during this time. See Denis Rancourt's meta­
analysis paper published in April 2020:
https://web.archive.Org/web/20200531184631/https://www.researchgate.net/publication/340570735 Masks Don
%27t Work A review of science relevant to COVID-19 social policy

Our own Commonwealth Department of Health stated that "Most people will not benefit from wearing a surgical
mask" and on this page, dated 14/April/2020, which has now been removed:
https://web.archive.Org/web/20210401182155/https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2020/04/c
oronavirus-covid-19-information-on-the-use-of-surgical-masks O.pdf

The more recent Cochrane review on masks, published on 30/January/2023, titled Physical interventions to interrupt
or reduce the spread of respiratory viruses, concluded that "Wearing masks in the community probably makes little
or no difference to the outcome of influenza-like illness(ILI)/COVID-19 like illness compared to not wearing masks”.
https://www.cochranelibrarv.com/cdsr/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006207.pub6/full

Testing

The PCR and RATs are highly inaccurate with many false positives.

Kary Mullis, the inventor of the PCR test said "these PCR tests cannot detect free infectious viruses at all".

We used a PCR cycle threshold that was way above the recommended rate.

Vaccines

An experimental gene therapy was essentially mandated upon the population. One which had only received
provisional approval from the TGA and had no short, medium or long-term safety data. This treatment was not a
traditional vaccine, but a newly developed application of mRNA technology. We had absolutely no idea what effect
this would have on the population.

We were told the lipid nanoparticles stayed at the injection site. This was the first myth to be busted in May 2021 by
Professor Bryam Bridle. They spread throughout the body, delivering the toxic spike protein payload to many organs



                                                                                                    December 13, 2023    1
around the body, such as "the spleen, bone marrow, the liver, adrenal glands, and in 'quite high concentrations' in
the ovaries", https://www.lifesitenews.com/news/vaccine-researcher-admits-big-mistake-savs-spike-protein-is-
dangerous-toxin

Many were pointing to highly vaccinated Israel and the U.K., which were months ahead of us in their vaccine
programme, showing that these treatments did not work as advertised, yet our governments ignored this important
data and went full steam ahead pushing them onto our population.

Prior to rollout, Pfizer never tested to see if their product prevented transmission of the virus. At a hearing in the
European Parliament in October 2022, Pfizer's president of international developed markets, Janine Small, said that
her company did not test for this because they had to "move at the speed of science". This doesn't sound very
scientific to me! Who is looking out for the health of Australians? Where are the checks and balances?

Pregnant women were excluded from vaccine trials and participants were forbidden to fall pregnant during this time.
How are our authorities able to recommend these products to women during pregnancy?

Despite the well-established flaws and dangers of the vaccines, we still have to this day members in parliament
promoting them, such as Mark Butler, Minister for Health and Aged Care.
https://twitter.com/Mark Butler MP/status/1734083026328629373

Medical coercion

Many people were threatened and coerced into taking this medical intervention without informed consent.

The basic right to body autonomy must be upheld, without penalty and coercion as per section 51, xxiiiA of the
Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act and also specified in the Australian Immunisation Handbook.

Nick Coatsworth publicly stated: "Looking at specific things like not being able to go into restaurants, not being able
to travel internationally, not being able to catch public transport or more broadly having what in the olden days
would have been a yellow fever vaccination certificate, these are clearly policy decisions that need, will be
discussed."

Vaccine alternatives

There were many safe and effective treatments that could have been used to treat patients. Ivermectin, which has
been around for more than sixty years, has a very good safety profile and who's inventors won the Nobel Peace Prize
in 2015, was banned from being prescribed in this country. Hydroxychloroquine was also banned.

Simple, off the shelf, vitamins/supplements, such as vitamin C, vitamin D and zinc were shown to be effective, yet not
promoted. We should have been told that going outside in the fresh air and being exposed to direct sunlight would
have been good for us instead of limiting the amount of exercise and being locked down at home.

Budesonide was shown to be an effective inhaled corticosteroid which was also not promoted.
https://budesonideworks.com/

Media

It is now well known that governments around the world were colluding with social media companies, such as
Alphabet and Twitter to remove content and accounts of those who posed an alternate perspective even by medical
professionals who were highly regarded, qualified and produced evidence supporting what they said.

There was an all-out assault on the vaccine alternatives mentioned above in the media, as well as anyone who even
mentioned them.

This must never be allowed to happen in a democracy.




                                                                                                   December 13, 2023      2
Health Acts

In Victoria, we had an establish Public Health and Wellbeing Act 2008, to deal with situations like those presented,
however, this was not followed. People were ordered to stay at home, stay within 5km of their home, or within the
"ring of steel", not allowed to cross a state border (although there's no such thing since federation), wear masks,
conform to night curfews and placed under other restrictions, without being diagnosed as having an infectious
disease and being personally issued with a written public health order by the Chief Health Officer.
http://classic.austlii.edu.au/au/legis/vic/consol act/phawa2008222/sll7.html



Science

No science was ever produced to support the measures taken by state premiers, chief health officers or ministers of
health, despite the public requesting this information. We were told to just do it without question.

Economy

The economic damage done here in Victoria was in the order of $300-$400 million per day. Many small businesses
were forced to close, unable to sustain themselves during this time. Our state is bankrupt and in ruin with no penalty
for those responsible.

People have been forced out of their chosen profession. Some industries such as healthcare and the fire brigade are
facing staff shortages yet sacked workers are unable to return to duty due to vaccine mandates which are still
currently in place.

Conclusion

It is MY WILL that an independent Royal Commission be held into the response and actions taken, at both federal and
state level, during the handling of the so-called pandemic. We need to investigate and publish all findings to the
public, including, but not limited to:

    •         The mandated gene therapies (vaccines).
    •         The contracts signed with the manufacturers.
    •     The TGA, including the process of vaccine evaluation/recommendation and restrictions/banning of
          alternatives.
    •         The forced lockdowns, including physical and mental wellbeing.
    •         The role played by the media.
    •         The role of AHPRA in restricting/silencing doctors.
    •     The dismissal/banning of existing, cheap therapies, such as Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine, Budesonide,
          Zinc, Vitamin C, Vitamin D3, Quercetin amongst others.
    •         Vaccine injuries.



Thank you for taking the time to read my submission.



Sincerely,

Glenn Seymon




                                                                                                 December 13, 2023       3
