                                            f   /.   Good jobs




     Queensland Government submission to the
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




                                           Queensland
                                           Government
                                                                                        f   ft   Good jobs




1. Introduction
The Queensland Government welcomes the opportunity to contribute to the examination of the
Commonwealth Government’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, with the aim of improving
Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.

The Queensland Government’s top priority during the pandemic was keeping Queenslanders
safe. To do this, Queensland’s COVID-19 response broadly occurred in two phases: keeping the
virus out for as long as possible until high levels of vaccination coverage were achieved (2020­
2021) and focusing efforts on protecting those at highest risk (2022-2023).

Queensland’s effective COVID-19 response meant shorter and fewer lockdowns than other
jurisdictions, consequently resulting in a reduction in the broader social, health, and economic
effects of the pandemic. While Queensland had six outbreaks and 53 community cases recorded
before the borders reopened, those figures were relatively low in the context of COVID-19
outbreaks and cases nationally.

However, Queensland could not respond to the pandemic alone - collaboration and coordination
with the Commonwealth and other state and territory governments was critical.

This submission is based on Queensland’s experience of the COVID-19 pandemic and outlines:
• the successes of Queensland’s health response and economic recovery within the context of
   the overall national response
• key lessons for future pandemic planning, including governance, funding, collaboration, roles
   and responsibilities, consistency of approach, and resourcing.


2. Queensland’s health response
2.1 Rapid activation of existing emergency management systems
Queensland’s unique geography and population distribution provides a more complex risk profile
for natural disasters than any other state or territory. Queensland has consequently developed
systems that can be rapidly stood up to deal with disasters and emergencies. Queensland’s
health response was swift and coordinated, considering the seriousness and unprecedented
nature of COVID-19.

Queensland’s ability to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic effectively and with support from the
community was due largely to the ability to quickly apply existing systems to a broad scale health
emergency.

On 22 January 2020, the Queensland Chief Health Officer (CHO) declared a public health event
and stood up the Queensland Health Public Health Incident Management Team.

On 25 January 2020, the State Health Emergency Coordination Centre, which included Liaison
Officers from several Queensland Government agencies and the Australian Defence Force, was
stood up. The State Disaster Coordination Centre, led by the State Disaster Coordinator under
the direction of the Queensland Disaster Management Committee, chaired by the Premier, was
activated to coordinate the whole-of-government response.



                                                                                 Queensland
                                                                              BT Government
                                                                                             f    ft   Good jobs




2.2 Responsive legislation
On 29 January 2020, Queensland was the first Australian jurisdiction to declare a public health
emergency, activating powers and functions under the Public Health Act 2005 (Qld), Chapter 8.

On 18 March 2020, the temporary emergency powers of the CHO were further strengthened
through the passage of the Public Health and Other Legislation (Public Health Emergency)
Amendment Act 2020 (Qld). These powers enabled rapid implementation of public health
measures necessary to assist in containing or responding to the spread of COVID-19.

Providing the community with access to up-to-date, reliable, and evidence-based information was
vital to ensuring ongoing support for the unprecedented and far-reaching public health measures
implemented during the pandemic.

Specific protections were put in place for Queensland’s remote First Nations communities, which
were first given effect through a Commonwealth Government Biosecurity Determination and
subsequently Queensland public health directions. Specific consideration was given to the
situation, needs, and vulnerabilities of First Nations Queenslanders, which resulted in low
mortality of First Nations Queenslanders from COVID-19.

Queensland legislative and governance frameworks continued to be updated as required as the
pandemic evolved to ensure agencies were able to respond effectively.

2.3 Strong decisions
The Queensland Government followed the expert advice of the CHO throughout the pandemic,
including taking the tough decisions to close Queensland borders when the expert advice
indicated that was the best way to keep Queenslanders safe. Border restrictions were reviewed
regularly and removed as soon as it was safe to do so.

Similarly, Queensland instituted short, sharp lockdowns, on the expert advice of the CHO, when
needed to limit spread and to ensure hospital capacity was not exceeded.

2.4 Innovative health service de very
Responding to COVID-19 demanded responsiveness and adaptability throughout Queensland
Health to unprecedented and complex challenges. Innovative health service delivery models and
programs, such as the statewide COVID-19 vaccine rollout and expanded use of telehealth, were
rapidly implemented to respond to COVID-19, protect the capacity and capability of the health
system, and continue to deliver high quality care to patients. Queensland’s health system now
retains capacity and capability to respond to future pandemics.

  Case study: Expanded telehealth
  Supporting continuity of care closer to home, Queensland Health leveraged opportunities to
  increase uptake of virtual care and telehealth. Queensland Health’s telehealth capacity rapidly
  increased from approximately 90 concurrent calls to 1600, supporting over 20,000 telehealth
  outpatient appointments each month. Telehealth services delivered in April 2020 tripled from those
  delivered in the nine months prior to the COVID-19 response. This increase was reflected in many
  clinical areas. COVID-19 provided the impetus for widespread and sustainable change towards a
  more empowered, collaborative, transparent, and agile health system.




                                                                                   Queensland
                                                                                Rr Government
                                                                                                  f   ft    Good jobs




  Case study: COVID-19 vaccine rollout
  Queensland’s proactive and innovative COVID-19 vaccine rollout was the most significant
  vaccination program in the state’s history, facilitating over 12 million vaccinations. Over 80 per cent
  of eligible Queenslanders were fully vaccinated before borders reopened on 13 December 2021.
  Queenslanders could be vaccinated at their local school or shopping centre, when visiting
  Bunnings, at football games, and at other tourist attractions. A total of 66 community-based
  COVID-19 vaccination locations were established, in addition to 925 pop-up or outreach clinics and
  the September 2021 ‘walk in weekend’, which represented the peak of the vaccination roll-out
  program, with 31,287 vaccine doses delivered on 18 September 2021.




3. Queensland’s economic response
3.1 Immediate and broad support measures
With the emergence of COVID-19 in early 2020, the outlook for the Queensland, national, and
global economies was characterised by extreme uncertainty and volatility.

Queensland’s strong health response provided the foundations for our outstanding economic
recovery.

From as soon as mid-February 2020, the Queensland Government announced a range of
economic stimulus support measures. According to the Queensland Audit Office report, Managing
Queensland’s COVID-19 economic response and recovery, the Queensland Government
committed $17.2 billion for over 300 economic response and recovery initiatives in the form of
state tax relief, temporary fee relief, grants, and loans.

  Case study: The Small Business COVID-19 Adaptation Grants program
  The Small Business COVID-19 Adaption Grants program supported small businesses in
  Queensland who were forced into hibernation, experienced significant structural adjustment, or had
  to significantly change their business operations as a result of the pandemic. Under the program,
  eligible small businesses who fell under the payroll tax threshold were able to apply for a grant of
  up to $10,000 to adapt and sustain their operations and build resilience. A total of $182.24 million
  was paid to 20,498 Queensland small businesses through the program.


Following the impact of the initial health response, across 2020 the combination of the successful
containment of the virus in Queensland and the comprehensive support provided from all levels
of government saw the Queensland economy start to recover.



3.2 Manufacturing pivot to PPE and other essent ils
To boost local manufacturing of critical goods during the pandemic, the Queensland
Government released the Personal Protective Equipment and Other Essential Products -
Manufacturing Sector Directions Statement which set actions and targets to support local
manufacturing.




                                                                                          Queensland
                                                                                       BT Government
                                                                                          f    ft   Good jobs




The Queensland Government also provided a range of financial support to local business to
assist them to transition to manufacturing the goods Queenslanders most needed and ensure
Queensland had priority access to the products. For example, the Queensland Government
gave $1.2 million to Logan’s Evolve Group to support them to urgently commence making
disposable N95 medical masks in high volume.

  Case study: The Bearded Chap repurposes for hospitals
  Brisbane-based the Bearded Chap retooled during the pandemic to urgently produce 13,000
  bottles of hand sanitiser, to help Queensland hospitals. The Queensland Government, through the
  supply-matching program, linked Bundaberg Rum with the Bearded Chap. They secured 3000 litres
  of ethanol to get their hand sanitiser production up, running and into hospitals.


3.3 Longer term plan and outcomes
In August 2020, the Queensland Government released Unite and Recover: Queensland’s
Economic Recovery Plan (Plan), which outlined six key areas of focus over the next two to five
years: keeping Queensland pandemic ready; helping small business, growing manufacturing;
driving infrastructure investment; growing the regions; and investing in skills.

The Plan was formulated in partnership with industry stakeholders including Ai Group, Master
Builders, the CCIQ, AgForce, the Queensland Resources Council and the RACQ

The Plan was based on a solid partnership focus in recognition of the fundamental role that
collaboration between Commonwealth, state and local governments and with businesses,
industry, the workforce, and the community plays in a strong recovery and included:
    • a commitment to maintain infrastructure investment at more than $50 billion over the
       following four years, despite the financial challenge of supporting Queensland through the
       pandemic;
    • a $400 million Accelerated Works Program to deliver new road, bridge and pavement
       sealing works across the state;
    • a further $200 million in 2020-21 for a Works for Queensland program to support jobs and
       fund productive building projects;
    •       a $11.25 million expansion of the Household Resilience Program in cyclone affected areas;
    • $50 million for tourism infrastructure and more funding towards a domestic tourism
       campaign;
    • redirecting $50 million of industry attraction funding under the Making it for Queensland
       initiative to continue to expand manufacturing capacity for PPE, hand sanitiser and medical
       supplies to respond to COVID-19;
    • a $10 million support package to support international students and safeguard
       Queensland’s global education brand;
    • a further $14.8 million to support project development of the CopperString project to
       connect the North West Minerals Province with the national electricity market; and
    • $20 million towards construction of a Queensland Apprenticeships Centre in renewable
       hydrogen at Beenleigh.

From early 2021, the impact of sustained low case numbers and stimulus drove a faster than
expected recovery in domestic activity, underpinned by a surging housing/property sector, with
the Queensland economy growing 2.8% in 2020-21 and 5.5% in 2021-22.



                                                                                    Queensland
                                                                                 BT Government
                                                                                          f    ft   Good jobs




Queensland’s strong recovery was reflected in the exceptional performance of the state’s labour
market, with employment in Queensland growing by 2.4% in 2020-21, 5.1% in 2021-22, and
3.7% in 2022-23. In 2022-23, the Queensland unemployment rate fell to 3.7%, the state’s equal
lowest year-average unemployment rate since the ABS data series commenced in 1978.

Queensland’s ongoing strong economic recovery and performance following the pandemic
continues to highlight the success of the Queensland Government response to the pandemic and
the resilience of the state’s diversified economy.

Reflecting the success of Queensland’s health response and strong labour market conditions
following the initial health crisis, Queensland has attracted a substantial in inter-state migration.
Since the onset of the pandemic, Queensland has welcomed nearly 120,000 net inter-state
migrants, more than triple than the next closest state, Western Australia.


4. Key lessons for future pandemic planning
4.1 Importance of a First Ministers’ decis )n-mak ig body
The establishment of National Cabinet as a governance vehicle was effective for rapidly bringing
together First Ministers at the outset of the pandemic when key decisions were required around
the direction of the national and state and territory approach to COVID-19.

Virtual meetings allowed for increased engagement between First Ministers at a scale and pace
not previously seen during the Council of Australian Governments era. National Cabinet
convened 32 times in 2020, 29 times in 2021, and 13 times in 2022.

National Cabinet’s mechanisms provided for direct briefings from experts (such as the Australian
Health Protection Principal Committee, and key Ministerial Councils), which were central to
informing National Cabinet’s decision-making.

While one of the key successes of National Cabinet has been the flexibility for states and
territories to consider and act upon their local circumstances, more timely information from the
Commonwealth Government to state and territory governments would support a more
comprehensive briefing of First Ministers ahead of National Cabinet discussions.

4.2 Jc it Commonwealth-State funding measures
A number of joint Commonwealth-State funding measures were put in place to support the health
response and economic recovery, such as the National Partnership on COVID-19 Response,
National Partnership on Homebuilder, National Partnership Agreement on COVID-19 Domestic
and Family Violence Reponses, JobTrainer Fund, and Sole Trader Grant.

These measures were in recognition of the joint responsibility of governments to protect the health
of the community and stimulate the economy. Commonwealth funding provided through these
measures was a welcome complement to state funding measures.

4.3 Strong collaboraf on between levels of government



                                                                                 Queensland
                                                                              Rr Government
                                                                                             f   ft   Good jobs




Strong collaboration between the levels of government was critical to the management of several
pandemic related matters. Examples include: developing COVID-safe plans for workplaces;
coordinating protections for remote communities; developing the implementing the National Plan
to Transition Australia’s COVID-19 Response; determining the international air passenger cap;
and establishing stores of PPE and health consumables to protect against significant supply chain
disruption, rapid large-scale vaccination networks, scale up sovereign manufacturing capability,
and a staged approach to reopening international borders.

Queensland Government officials regularly participated in National Coordination Mechanism
(NCM) meetings, often multiple times per day, which supported the rapid dissemination of
information to officials and often private organisations. Queensland supports the continuation of
NCMs and recommends the Commonwealth consider avenues to improve the strategic nature of
meetings and maximise the flow of critical information with a view to reduce time and resource
demands of officials in attendance.

4.4 Clearer delinea on of roles and responsibilities
All jurisdictions would benefit from clearer delineation of roles and responsibilities.

Greater clarity on the expectations of states and territories in delivery of services that are typically
considered a Commonwealth responsibility would provide better outcomes for the community.
Clear, principles-based service delivery arrangements agreed to by the Commonwealth, state
and territory governments may assist in this regard.


5. Conclusion
Queensland’s strong, swift, coordinated, and effective health response was the foundation for
Queensland’s strong economic recovery.

Underpinning Queensland’s success was cooperation and understanding of the people of
Queensland to listen to and follow the health advice and public health measures asked of them
by the Government. Foundational to the cooperation was trust in the institutions of government
providing the advice and an obligation of those institutions to provide timely, accurate and
understandable communication to all Queenslanders. It is critical all governments, and their
institutions, maintain the trust and confidence of citizens to ensure future responses to disasters
and pandemics can minimise negative impacts and support recovery efforts.




                                                                                      Queensland
                                                                                   BT Government
