qnmu  I Queensland Nurses &
        Midwives' Union




                                      Submission to
   Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet




              Commonwealth Government COVID-19
                                Response Inquiry




                                             December 2023




El 106 Victoria St, West End Q 4101
fSl GPO Box 1289, Brisbane Q 4001
@ (07) 3840 1444
® (07) 3844 9387
m qnmu@qnmu.org.au
Q www.qnmu.org.au
Table of contents
Introduction..........................................................................................................................................4
Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal
Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19..........................................7
Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
health messaging)................................................................................................................................. 8
    Overview of the healthcare system............................................................................................. 9
    Public health and preparedness.................................................................................................. 10
    Public health messaging............................................................................................................... 10
    Centre for Disease Control (CDC)................................................................................................ 11
    Nurse-led models of care............................................................................................................. 11
    Midwifery services and models of care..................................................................................... 12
    Aged care........................................................................................................................................ 13
    Elective surgery and screenings.................................................................................................. 14
    Telehealth services........................................................................................................................ 14
    Vaccine rollout.............................................................................................................................. 15
    Rapid antigen tests (RATs)........................................................................................................... 16
    Contact tracing technology..........................................................................................................16
    Personal protection equipment (PPE) access and supply....................................................... 16
    Guidelines on PPE usage.............................................................................................................. 18
    PPE training and fit testing........................................................................................................... 19
    Quarantine..................................................................................................................................... 19
Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other
preventive health measures)............................................................................................................ 19
    Mental health and suicide prevention supports..................................................................... 20
    Long COVID..................................................................................................................................... 21
International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to
international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners
for domestic use in Australia)........................................................................................................... 22
Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport
issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries)................................. 22
    Role of unions................................................................................................................................ 22
    Pink collar industries.................................................................................................................... 24
    Supply chain issues........................................................................................................................ 24


                                                                          2
Financial support for individuals (including income support payments)................................... 25
Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing
and homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of
Commonwealth Government responsibility)................................................................................. 26
Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
(including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
linguistically diverse communities).................................................................................................. T1
    First Nations peoples needs during the pandemic.................................................................. T1
    Culturally and linguistically diverse communities needs during the pandemic.................. T1
    The needs of people with a disability during the pandemic.................................................. 28
    Gendered impacts......................................................................................................................... 28
References.......................................................................................................................................... 29




                                                                          3
Introduction
The Queensland Nurses and Midwives' Union (QNMU) thanks the Department of the Prime
Minister and Cabinet (the Department) for the opportunity to provide feedback on the
Commonwealth Government's COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry).


Nursing and midwifery is the largest occupational group in Queensland Health and one of the
largest across the Queensland government. The QNMU is the principal health union in
Queensland covering all classifications of workers that make up the nursing and midwifery
workforce including registered nurses (RN), registered midwives, enrolled nurses (EN) and
assistants in nursing (AIN) and students who are employed in the public, private and not-for-
profit health sectors including aged care.


Our more than 71,000 members work across a variety of settings from single person
operations to large health and non-health institutions, and in a full range of classifications
from entry level trainees to senior management. The vast majority of nurses and midwives
in Queensland are members of the QNMU. As the Queensland state branch of the Australian
Nursing and Midwifery Federation (ANMF), the QNMU is the peak professional body for
nurses and midwives in Queensland.


Through our submissions and other initiatives, the QNMU expresses our commitment to
working in partnership with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples to achieve health
equity and ensure the voices of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander nurses and midwives are
heard. The QNMU supports the Uluru Statement from the Heart and the call for a First
Nations Voice enshrined in our Constitution. The QNMU acknowledges the lands on which
we work and meet always was, and always will be, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander land.


The QNMU supports the Inquiry's lessons learned approach in examining Australia's response
to the pandemic, and the pervasive impact of COVID-19. We recognise that some issues
identified through the Inquiry, such as the functioning of the healthcare system and aged
care sector, are not new and must not be identified as though they are new problems rather
than recurrent and predictable ones (Smith & Upshur, 2020). It is important to note that the
COVID-19 outbreak highlighted fragilities of existing systems, made visible issues that were
already established and has provided the impetus for change that may otherwise not have
occurred.


This Inquiry provides the opportunity to consider the lessons learned from the pandemic and
then take the next big step - how to effectively implement the lessons, for the present and
the future.


The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the nursing and midwifery workforce has been
unprecedented and will be felt for many years to come. The QNMU takes the opportunity to


                                              4
acknowledge our colleagues working in other countries around the world - nurses and
midwives who have experienced greater infection and death rates due to COVID-19.


The QNMU will respond to each of the terms of reference and have taken the perspective of
our membership which are the nurses, midwives, and assistants in nursing or personal carers
(however titled) of Queensland.


We acknowledge that in looking for opportunities to be more effective and increase the
nations' preparedness in the event of future pandemics, the health sector is but one
component, although an extremely important part, which is a significant focus for this
submission.


Recommendations


 The QNMU recommends the Commonwealth government make recommendations to
 improve response measures in the event of future pandemics in these areas:
 Governance
    •         A review of the impact on human rights.

 Healthcare system and workforce capacity
    •   Consider alternative funding models to activity-based funding that focus on greater
        access, responsiveness to individual needs, and ensure best-practice service
        provision.
    •   Ensure adequate funding of the health system and health infrastructures to meet
        growing demands.
    •   Reduce the burden on hospital-based services, including emergency departments,
        by increasing infrastructure and resources.
    •   Support nurses and midwives to lead and incorporate the use of digital health
        technologies to assist (but not substitute) in the delivery of quality patient care.
    •   Build and sustain an adequately skilled and qualified health workforce that has the
        capacity to respond to future pandemics and emergencies.
    •   Support workforce development that encourages retention and allows for
        scalability of nursing and midwifery-led models of care.
    •   Explore and utilise nurse-led models of care including the Nurse Practitioner (NP)
        role in providing primary, acute, and aged care.
    •         Explore, utilise, and invest in midwifery-led models of care.
    •   Develop a national workforce plan for health and aged care that addresses short,
        medium, and long-term needs and forecasted demands.
    •   Commit to minimum nurse-to-patient ratios and skill mix in the private and private
        aged care sectors.



                                               5
   •   Develop more robust aged care regulations and standards of care that can be
       monitored and regularly evaluated.
   •       Address increasing demands for elective surgery and screening.
   •   Maintain the health practitioner sub-register to maximise the capabilities of the
       healthcare workforce to respond to future emergencies.


Vaccine development and procurement strategy
   •   Invest in Australia's biotechnology infrastructure to build our onshore capacity to
       develop and produce vaccines.

Rapid antigen tests (RATs)
   •   Investigate     public health   measures, such as     RATs and their accessibility,
       affordability, and availability for all.

Contact tracing technology and national quarantine principles
   •       Evaluate the effectiveness and approach to contact tracing technologies.
   •   Develop a quarantine plan that is regularly updated, tested, validated and evidence
       based.
   •   Develop a strategy and resources to assist and support Australians overseas during
       a future pandemic and their ability to return home.


PPE supply chain reform
   •   Develop and maintain industry support mechanisms to build the capacity of local
       supply chains to manufacture medicines and personal protective equipment (PPE).
   •       Coordinate a consistent and contemporary approach to the use and fit of PPE.


Mental health
   •   Urgently invest in the provision of existing mental health services and expand
       community-focused mental health services.
   •   Evaluate federally funded mental health clinics like those funded during Victoria's
       second lockdown to determine effectiveness for future pandemics.


Long COVID
   •       Coordinate a national plan to address long COVID as a critical priority.
   •   Utilise the establishment of an Australian Centre for Disease Control (CDC) to report
       on and learn about the signs and symptoms of long COVID and short-and long-term
       effects of long COVID.

Industrial relations
   •       Legislate paid pandemic leave entitlements for all workers.
   •       Improve secure working arrangements for all workers.




                                                  6
    •   Review the impact that increasing reliance on casualisation of the workforce has
        had on our financial and economic response to COVID-19.

 Impact on specific population groups
    •        Continue to work to advance gender equality.
    •        Prevention and responses to domestic violence.
    •   Recognise that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities are diverse, and a
        one-size-fits-all approach is likely to place constraints on responses to a pandemic.
    •   Ensure that any approach to future pandemics allow for First Nations and culturally
        and linguistically diverse communities (CALD) communities to self-determine their
        needs and approaches.
    •        Develop a specific initiative for future pandemics for people with a disability.




Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health                Protection Principal
Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.
As Australians faced the initial stages of COVID-19 in early 2020, the then Prime Minister,
Scott Morrison, announced the formation of the National Cabinet, replacing the Council of
Australian Governments (COAG). National Cabinet was created to enable a quick and
consistent national approach in responding to the outbreak of COVID-19 (Australian
Government, 2020). While decisions were to be made collectively by National Cabinet, in
truth, agreement was not always reached, and this failed decision-making capacity did not
create a cohesive and consistent approach. While it allowed each state and territory to
address local concerns and manage and respond to local conditions while under the oversight
of National Cabinet, states and territories did not always align in their approach, creating a
disparate and separate national management strategy for COVID-19. As the Senate Select
Committee on COVID-19 (the Committee) aptly stated "the Australian Government's failure
to lead through the National Cabinet meant local responses were often inconsistent and failed
to complement one another" (Commonwealth of Australia, 2022, p. 73).


The QNMU strongly supports that in the event of a future pandemic, National Cabinet must
operate within clear rules. Responsibilities and management that fall within the remit of
states and territories must be made clearer, to avoid confusion and mixed messaging.


The QNMU considers the Commonwealth Government's decision-making processes,
particularly at the start of the pandemic and around the vaccine rollout were not always clear
or transparent. At times it felt very much as though decisions were made on the run without
processes in place to support the actions. Decision making must be evidence-based, consider
social determinants of health and be culturally safe. As part of this Inquiry, we see the need


                                              7
to re-assess the best methods to communicate to the population that create trust and
cooperation in the message.


Additionally, the balance between public health advice, protecting the health of citizens,
reducing the burden on healthcare systems and staff with that of civil liberties must be
investigated and considered. Extraordinary measures implemented during the pandemic
must be examined through a human rights lens as many Australians were forced to live with
some of the harshest and restrictive measures in the world. These restrictions included
lockdowns, international and interstate border closures, curfews, quarantine, vaccine
mandates and proof of vaccination status. For many, these measures limited their human
rights.


The Commonwealth Government's initial Health Sector Emergency Response for COVID-19
Plan did not overtly embed human rights and referred only to 'individual liberty' as a value
suggested to be considered when planning and implementing actions under the Plan
(Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Health, 2020, p. 9). This
shortfall sees COVID-19 response measures not considered against a human rights approach.
This coincided with National Cabinet making decisions, not in parliament, which saw the
responsibility of implementing those decisions split between federal, state and territory
governments, thereby diluting responsibility, accountability and transparency (Australian
Human Rights Commission, n.d.). Equally, it complicated the ability to ensure proper human
rights scrutiny of these decisions.


The QNMU supports a review of the impact on human rights during the pandemic and that
future emergency planning incorporates human rights so that the national imperative to act
decisively and comprehensively is balanced with the human rights of citizens at the individual
and group levels.



Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and
public health messaging).
In responding to this term of reference, the QNMU will provide an overview of the healthcare
system and discuss public health and preparedness, public health messaging, the Centre for
Disease Control (CDC), the aged care sector, nurse-led models of care, midwifery services and
models of care, elective surgery and screenings, telehealth services, vaccine rollout, rapid
antigen tests (RATs), contact tracing technology, PPE access and supply, guidelines on PPE
usage, PPE training and fit testing, quarantine, mental health and suicide prevention supports,
and long COVID.




                                              8
Overview of the healthcare system
The COVID-19 pandemic placed a substantial stress on Australia's healthcare system, which
has resulted in increased health spending particularly in public health and public hospitals
(Australian Institute of Health and Welfare [AIWH], 2023b). At the start of the outbreak in
2020, the initial burden in Australia was modest, ranking 135th in the leading cause of burden.
However, by 2022 COVID-19 became the Sth leading cause of fatal burden (contributing to
4.1% of total burden) and 21st leading cause of non-fatal burden (contributing 1.4% of total
burden) (AIHW, 2023b). While COVID-19 had a major impact on the healthcare system and
health system spending in Australia, there has been less morbidity and mortality than many
other countries.


The national response to the COVID-19 pandemic necessitated the introduction of several
measures to manage the increase in healthcare provision and highlighted the ongoing need
for proactive healthcare investment by the government. The QNMU believes that one of the
lessons to emerge from the Commonwealth government's response to the COVID-19
pandemic is that the funding of the healthcare system, and the way such funding models
shape healthcare priorities, requires significant change. The retrospective approach of
activity-based funding for hospitals is incompatible with modern demands for a proactive
approach to national health and wellbeing. While activity-based funding encourages hospitals
to operate more efficiently, it does not consider whether the service provided is the most
effective way to deliver care (KPMG, 2019). Consideration should be given to different funding
approaches that may be more appropriate to ensure greater access, responsiveness to
individual needs, and ensuring best-practice service provision. Imbuing an efficiency-at-all-
cost mentality for health services challenges the capacity to plan for contingencies, such as a
pandemic.


Another key response to COVID-19 was the cooperation between private and public hospitals.
They worked together to develop and implement strategies to address the expected demand
for services and resources, sharing equipment, and freeing up resources to be able to deal
with the expected surge in demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic (Nayna Schwerdtle et al.,
2020). We acknowledge however that significant aspects of these contracts were not invoked
due to the successful flattening of the COVID-19 curve and containment of demand on the
public health system. The ability of the greater healthcare system to adapt and act together
points to opportunities for redefining many aspects of healthcare delivery for the future.


The pandemic has also shown the accessibility of healthcare services and the need for further
reform. Access to affordable and timely care must be a guiding principle for future pandemic
preparedness. The QNMU continues to advocate for the reduction of burden on hospital­
based services and continue to support greater infrastructure and resources available in the
community. This must be a continued long-term commitment that extends beyond COVID-19
to bolster health services against future crises.


                                                9
The capacity and capability of the healthcare workforce to respond to a pandemic is critical.
Professional boundaries and scope of practice for all health practitioners, but particularly
nurses and midwives, must be reviewed as part of standard practices and preparedness plans.
We see the work being undertaken by the Commonwealth Government's inquiry into
Developing the national nursing workforce strategy as critical to inform nursing policy and
workforce planning in the short, medium, and long-term future.


What remains clear is that the government must not return to the status quo but continue to
support innovations in healthcare delivery. We have seen from the pandemic that the
provision of healthcare can be flexible and agile, and this must be developed into the
healthcare system.


Public health and preparedness
If anything can be learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic it is that with any pursuit of efficiencies
in our public health system there must be built-in, sufficient excess capacity to cope with any
surges in demand and the capability to cope with crises. Just as "just in time" supply chains
were shown to be exceptionally vulnerable to a disruption like a pandemic, similar "false
economy" approaches to workforce management, where there is little capacity to respond to
unexpected demand situations, must be avoided particularly in critical sectors of society.


In planning the recovery phase post COVID-19, governments must view the funding of public
services such as health and education as vital investments and not an expenditure
(Productivity Commission, 2017). Proper funding of universal health services underpins a
vibrant and productive economy and is essential to ensuring social cohesion and fairness.


Public health messaging
The pandemic saw government and public health officials trying to understand, convey and
adjust to the immediate threat of COVID-19 and the evolving evidence and research.
Coordinating and communicating a clear and consistent message during this crisis was not
always successful with states and territories often using different sources thereby providing
differences health advice. As part of this inquiry, the QNMU suggests government look to
develop a coordinated national communication strategy for future crises that would function
as a national information source and provide clear and logical explanations for differences in
actions (Johnston & PHAA, 2020). This could sit within the remit of the Centre for Disease
Control (CDC) when established. We also take the opportunity to call out misinformation
particularly seen on social media that circulated without scrutiny or repercussions (Park et al.,
2020). We believe a regulatory approach is needed to prevent disinformation.


Additionally, the Commonwealth government's public health messaging with multicultural
communities needs investigating. In August 2020 it was revealed nonsensical language
translations of COVID-19 public health messages had been distributed to multicultural

                                               10
communities (Dalzell, 2020). This prompted fears that migrants and refugees had been
receiving incorrect information. While it could be argued that this mistake was due to trying
to deliver quick communication to communities it, however, also points to an ad-hoc
approach to a public health issue that must be addressed for future public health
emergencies.


Centre for Disease Control (CDC)
The QNMU takes the opportunity to support the Australian Government in establishing an
Australian CDC. The CDC as a designated public agency and independent statutory authority,
will be a single source of truth, providing advice and education on public health matters. We
believe it will have an important role to play in future public health emergencies, particularly
in pandemic preparedness and response. The CDC will also be vital in the recovery from
COVID-19, particularly the impact of long COVID on individuals and the healthcare system.


We believe there is an opportunity to look overseas and learn from other CDCs and how they
managed the pandemic. For instance, the United States (US) Centre for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) has faced criticism in its response to the pandemic, in particular releasing a
flawed test that delayed accurate reporting of cases, confusing messaging about social
distancing, mask wearing and vaccinations, compounded with the political interference from
the Trump Administration (Tanne, 2022). It has been suggested that the US's CDC should be
afforded more autonomy and authority and have the flexibility to adapt to unfolding
situations. The QNMU suggests these issues be considered when forming Australia's CDC to
ensure effectiveness in dealing with all future public health concerns.


Nurse-led models of care
The pandemic has highlighted the value of nurses and demonstrated their leadership,
knowledge, expertise, experience, and agility in responding to COVID-19 and their important
role in delivering innovative models of care. Nurses are critical in meeting the increasing
demands of the healthcare system and bridging health inequity gaps. It is imperative that
employers of nurses and midwives actively engage with their workforce to gain feedback
about their concerns and issues during extreme events, such as a pandemic, and work to
support and maintain their health and safety as a priority.


The continuing failure of the healthcare system to utilise nurses and midwives to their full
scope of practice is limiting consumer access to evidence-based, cost-efficient nurse and
midwife-led models of care. Adopting nurse-led models of care, utilising nurse navigators and
NPs, assists patients to navigate the healthcare system and improve coordination and
integration between health services. Nurse-led models of care ensure a more accessible,
productive, and safer health and aged care systems.




                                              11
As a result of the pandemic, many innovative models of care have been expanded and
developed to meet health service demands, respond to changes in work practices and
community social distancing directives. These included:
   •   Virtual care which improves access and convenience for patients. E.g., virtual
       emergency departments and virtual diabetes clinics.
   •   Hospital in the Home (HITH) - a hospital avoidance strategy implemented to treat and
       monitor patients in the home.
   •   Triaging models and assessment tools such as in-car triage/fever clinics and open-air
       consultations.
   •      Telehealth.
   •      13Health - health advice provided by RNs over the phone.
   •      Vaccination pop-up clinics.


NPs have also played a key role in Australia's healthcare system, pre COVID19 and during the
pandemic. NPs have demonstrated improvements in access to care for marginalised,
disadvantaged, isolated and underserved populations, whilst reducing costs and decreasing
the duplication of work and documentation (Queensland Health, 2020). A key advantage of
the NP role has been to bridge the gaps in access to care for diverse healthcare areas such as
palliative care, cardiac care, mental health, pain management, alcohol and other drug services
and renal replacement therapy (KPMG, 2018). During the pandemic, NP-led models of care
have been utilised to provide after-hours emergency care in rural urgent care centres to
reduce the burden of excessive after-hours on call duties for rural GPs, while improving access
to quality care (Wilson et al., 2021).


Midwifery services and models of care
Restrictions applied to women's choices of maternity care during the pandemic impacted the
approach midwives undertook in providing woman-centred care. The pandemic fostered new
ways of working for midwives, including hybrid and mixed modes of care delivery and
partnerships, such as the use of telehealth in combination with face-to-face models of care
(Queensland Health, 2022). Research shows that midwives are hopeful that the "rapid change
seen in health services during the pandemic was a positive signal that change was possible
into the future" and that practices could change when and if required (Bradfield et al., 2022).


In preparing for future pandemics there must be a balance between responding to a
pandemic and the needs of the community. This is especially important in supporting normal,
healthy life events such as childbirth. The Commonwealth government has pledged support
for continuity of care models in maternity services and the expert role of midwives as being
best placed clinicians for normal pregnancies and delivery. Implementation of such policies
must be maintained, even during a national emergency. Further, access to services such as
birth centres is crucial to maintain during a national emergency.



                                              12
The QNMU continues to advocate for the increase of midwifery-led care. Research
demonstrates midwifery continuity of care models provide optimal outcomes for women and
their babies. The Lancet Framework for Maternal and Newborn care indicates that midwifery-
led primary health care leads to improved mortality and morbidity across the life course
(Wilson et al., 2020). The QNMU recommends that the Commonwealth government ensure
quality nursing and midwifery led services are embedded into the design of healthcare service
delivery and future emergency preparedness planning.


Aged care
The Commonwealth Government's handling of COVID-19 in the aged care sector was a failure.
The COVID-19 crisis resulted in hundreds of preventable deaths as the Commonwealth
Government failed to develop a COVID-19 plan for aged care and responded too slowly to the
crisis. The consequences of this saw a sectoralready under strain and unable to keep residents
and staff safe, struggle to manage the pandemic. Inadequate staffing levels and surge staff, a
lack of access to PPE and a lack of infection control training, predated the pandemic. The long­
term deskilling and understaffing of the aged care workforce, along with an increase in
complexity and acuity of those receiving aged care have left the sector vulnerable to the
impacts of the     pandemic.    Instead of taking responsibility for their mistakes, the
Commonwealth Government continually blamed states and territories for the tragedy
(Commonwealth of Australia, 2022).


There are many important factors in reforming the aged care system to meet the care needs
of Australians, and adequately prepare for future pandemics. As a minimum, aged care staff
must be trained in infection control and prevention, and in the use of PPE. Further, there must
always be a sufficient and local supply of PPE for aged care facilities. Future-proofing the
safety of those who work and live in aged care facilities, starts with infection control and PPE.


The QNMU considers that effective workforce planning in aged care is required and must be
underpinned by legislation and a regulatory framework to identify and enforce minimum
standards and governance (Aitken et al., 2021), given the failure of the sector to manage
workforce issues from a self-regulatory perspective. Building on the recommendations of the
Royal Commission, the QNMU continues to advocate for increased regulatory oversight,
reporting requirements, developing a Workforce Standard, and funding that reflects the
actual cost of care, of which workforce constitutes the largest single cost.


We support the introduction of mandated RN 24/7 and overall minutes of care requirements
in aged care facilities as a recent reform measure, however, the QNMU raises concerns that
providers are focusing on meeting the RN related mandates at the expense of EN positions
and undervaluing the critical role that ENs provide. A potential outcome is an increase in the
number of RNs but an overall decrease in the nursing workforce. Any such outcome would be
significantly at odds with the intentions of the Royal Commission and undermine the


                                               13
objectives of the aged care reform process to improve the skill and staff-mix in the aged care
sector.


A valued, adequately staffed, skilled and supported aged care workforce is critical to meeting
the care needs of Australians and the success of any future pandemic response.


Engaging digital health technologies
Nurses and midwives are well placed to lead in the application of digital health technologies,
like Artificial Intelligence (Al), to support the delivery of safe, quality care. As the largest
professional cohort of registered health practitioners in Australia, nurses and midwives play
a vital role in digital health and becoming digitally competent is now a fundamental element
of nursing and midwifery practice. If developed in a meaningful, considered, and collaborative
way, that supports and does not substitute the critical role of human-to-human care, digital
technologies may help nurses and midwives to deliver patient care and improve health
outcomes for Australians.


Elective surgery and screenings
In the early stages of the pandemic, the National Cabinet temporarily suspended all non­
urgent elective surgery in both public and private hospitals to ensure the healthcare system
could cope with an influx of potential patients and to preserve stocks of PPE. This meant that
across Australia in 2019-20, the number of admissions from waiting lists was 9.2% lower than
in 2018-19 (AIHW, 2020a). This was devastating for many patients who were waiting for
elective surgery.


Delays in screening and diagnostic tests were also seen during the pandemic including a
significant decline in mammograms and bowel and cervical screening; the potential
consequences of which are still to be determined (AIHW, 2022). Worrying trends are already
showing that missed or delayed screening has led to patients receiving treatment at more
advanced stages of disease (Westfund Health Insurance, 2023).


The QNMU supports a national plan that addresses the current elective surgery waiting list
and screening services and addresses how these healthcare services will respond to
emergency situations like a pandemic in the future.


Telehealth services
The acceleration in the use (and subsequent) funding, of telehealth services through the
pandemic increased access to healthcare and enabled patients to consult with health
practitioners over the phone or via videoconference rather than face-to-face. Telehealth
allowed Australians to access health services in their home while undergoing self-isolation or
quarantine and were vital in reducing the risk of exposure to COVID-19 not only for the
community but also to healthcare providers, including NPs, practice nurses and midwives. The

                                              14
continuing of the Medicare Benefits Scheme (MBS) telehealth services for NPs and midwives
that were introduced on a temporary basis during the pandemic, have thankfully been made
permanent. This provides patients greater flexibility in access to healthcare and a future-proof
pandemic-proof health service delivery.


Vaccine rollout
The Commonwealth Government's handling of the vaccine rollout was considered by many
as a "phenomenal failure" (Macmillan, 2021). The vaccine procurement strategy used by the
Morrison Government took a different path to most other countries by deciding not to spread
their investment and plans across multiple technologies and multiple countries, choosing to
primarily invest in a small number of vaccines (Duckett, 2022). This decision in limiting where
Australia would purchase these vaccines, saw the government scrambling to purchase other
vaccines when the vaccines they had invested in failed. This led to the government rolling out
the vaccination program in February 2021, months later than other countries (Duckett, 2022).
Morrison's spin in stating the vaccination rollout was 'not a race' did little to instil confidence
in the government's handling of an essential part in combatting the virus.


The national strategy for the vaccine rollout focused on protecting the most vulnerable
Australians first, with the aim of vaccinating 4 million Australians by the end of March 2021
and all willing adults by the end of October 2021. However, it quickly became evident that the
goals the government had set itself were not being reached. Timeframes became ambiguous
with the Prime Minister avoiding setting a timeframe after initial goals were not met.


The introduction of vaccine mandates and mandating proof of vaccination status also added
complexity to the delivery of vaccines. For some, these mandates raised human rights
concerns and legal issues which the QNMU will not discuss in this submission. We believe the
Commonwealth Government has an opportunity to improve future vaccination rollouts by
revisiting the planning of the vaccination rollout, particularly in the early stages.


The QNMU also notes, that in the lead up to the vaccine rollout and continuing after the
vaccine rollout, there had been anti-vaccination messaging and disinformation distributed
through media and social media. There have also been anti-vaccination protests around the
world, including in Australia. The concerns are varied with some believing that vaccines are
unsafe and a bigger risk than getting the virus and others believing in conspiracy theories that
the vaccines will kill millions. This disinformation mixed with a slow vaccine rollout fuelled the
uncertainty about the safety of vaccines which is still apparent in 2023.


The impact of global supply constraints on Australia's vaccine rollout has highlighted the
importance of building Australia's capacity to locally develop and produce vaccines. Onshore
manufacturing capacity is a crucial health security investment for future pandemics and
health emergencies. This requires significant investment in Australia's biotechnology


                                                15
infrastructure to support vaccine development, manufacturing and proactively address future
biosecurity threats as they arise.


Rapid antigen tests (RATs)
The Commonwealth Government's decision to decline to make RATs free goes against public
health policy. The Commonwealth Government eventually bowed to public pressure and
allowed concession card holders to have access to free RATs. It also forced state governments
in New South Wales and Victoria to go against the Commonwealth Government and provide
free RATs to all. By not providing free RATs, the Commonwealth Government failed to make
this important method of controlling the virus equitable and accessible. The QNMU sees this
as one area of the government's handling of COVID-19 that must be improved for future
pandemics.


Contact tracing technology
Australia's voluntary COVID-19 contact tracing phone app, COVIDSafe, was released in early
2020 and terminated in August 2022. One of the goals of the app was to automate the manual
work of contact tracers, however the app complicated the work of contact tracers who were
quickly overwhelmed by the data volume (RMIT University, 2022). The costly1 app failed, with
only 17 close contacts identified that hadn't already been identified through manual contract
tracing (Department of Health and Aged Care, 2022).


For future pandemics, a shift in focus for the Commonwealth Government that views the
development of contact tracing apps as a 'digital also' instead of a 'digital first' approach could
be used (RMIT University, 2022). An emphasis on understanding the needs and existing
manual processes can sit alongside ensuring privacy and security measures, Bluetooth
connectivity and accessibility and usability of any app developed for future public health
responses.


Personal protection equipment (PPE) access and supply
Concerns regarding limited access to PPE dominated the media throughout the pandemic.
The global surge in demand coupled with vulnerabilities in manufacturing supply chains
highlighted how insecure the supply of PPE is. This under-preparedness in access to PPE
caused anxiety and stress for many, including QNMU members and highlights the need for
nurses and midwives and other health practitioners to work with government and health
services to ensure future stores of PPE are retained and fit for purpose for future emergency
events (Nayna Schwerdtle et al., 2020).


The QNMU's data collected during the beginning months of the pandemic illustrates these
concerns seeing an increased volume of calls from members in 2020 (1 February to 30 April)


1 The COVIDSafe app cost $21 million (Department of Health and Aged Care, 2022).

                                                    16
with concerns around PPE supply (225 calls over 4 months) as shown in Figure 1.


                    Three most common call topics within category of PPE
                                                                           275

                                                                           250

              -----General PPE concerns
                                                                           225

              — ■ PPE Supply concerns                                      200


                                                                           175
              ------ Employer advised member not to use PPE
                                                                           150
                                                                                 o

                                                                           125
                                                                                 E

                                                                           100

                                                                           75

                                                                           50

                                                                           25

                                                                           0


                                  X
Figure 1: Phone calls received by QNMU about PPE


Our members were also expressing concerns about access to PPE, with some QNMU members
reporting that PPE was sometimes locked up after hours and they could not access it because
they did not have a key or did not have the authority to access locked stores.


Improving access to PPE and increasing the resilience of the healthcare system through
supply chain reform, the Commonwealth Government could consider incorporating
strategies identified by the Grattan Institute (Duckett et al., 2020), including:
    •         Giving a greater price premium to local supply and manufacture.
    •     Rewriting supply contracts to increase obligations on supplier to ensure continuity of
          supply.
    •     Increasing product standardisation across the health system to allow easier
          substitution of products and to reduce the cost of inventory.
    •         Increasing flexibility by spreading the supply chain across more than one supplier.
    •         Ensuring the national stockpile is reviewed regularly.


The QNMU supports these strategies in avoiding reliance on overseas supply chains in future
crises.


The Committee in 2020 identified that the Commonwealth Government failed to act on the
warnings about the inadequacy of the National medical stockpile (NMS). The inadequate
number of surgical masks, P2/N95 masks, goggles, gowns, and visors saw Australian health
departments scrambling to join global bidding for PPE and forking out large outlays of public


                                                              17
funds to secure stock. These shortages in PPE led to many healthcare practitioners rationing,
purchasing privately, and reusing and extending the use of PPE particularly in primary
healthcare (Ayton et al., 2022).


The concern for the health and safety of health practitioners and their access and use of PPE,
points not only to access and supply issues but to inconsistent and changing guidelines, lack
of training, lack of access to fit-testing for P2 and N95 masks, and the initial debate around
whether COVID-19 can be transmitted via aerosols (Woodley, 2021). While this list is not
exhaustive, if you start adding these issues together it paints a picture of the PPE access issues
and the need for improvement in future pandemics. Stockpiles of essential medical
equipment and medicines must be held for release in a crisis and the details of the stockpiles
made available to health practitioners who need to know i.e., hospitals in responding to
future pandemics.


Guidelines on PPE usage
The rapidly unfolding nature of the cause, transmission, and impact of COVID-19 contributed
to ever-changing guidelines on PPE usage. It coincided with inconsistent dissemination and
transparency of information and poor access to PPE supply chains. For example, in the early
stages of the pandemic, Queensland Health guidelines indicated that standard infection
control practices (surgical masks) were sufficient for healthcare workers during the routine
treatment of COVID-19 positive patients, with airborne infection control practices (P2/N95
respirators) reserved for aerosol generating procedures. However, the second wave of the
pandemic saw changes in guidelines made in areas with outbreaks. Most notably, Victoria
broadened the setting for the use of P2/N95 respirators during all treatment settings when in
contact with confirmed or potential positive cases of COVID-19. In Queensland, the outbreak
cluster in Ipswich prompted West Moreton Hospital and Health Service (HHS) to update their
guidelines to be more in line with the new Victorian standards. During this time, the QNMU
also lobbied the Department of Health and Chief Health Officer for the use of P2/N95
respirators as standard in cases of confirmed or potential COVID-19 positive patients.
Queensland Health subsequently changed their guidelines to recommend the use of P2/N95
masks for healthcare workers in contact with confirmed or potential COVID-19 positive cases.
These state examples provide an important picture of how each state developed their own
guidelines and highlights the need for a national consistent single source of truth and/or an
explanation as to why there are different approaches taken.


The lack of communication and insufficient PPE supply caused a significant amount of
uncertainty and fear within our membership, the broader health workforce, and the greater
population. Federal and state governments engaged inconsistent sources of evidence to
inform their recommendations about PPE. The QNMU's experience strongly reflected this.
Between 30/01/2020 to 30/04/2020, 853 members contacted the QNMU specifically about
COVID-19 and PPE, with 136 calls about an employer incorrectly advising QNMU members


                                               18
not to use PPE. The QNMU emphasises the need for a uniform and coordinated approach to
PPE recommendations at the federal level.


PPE training and fit testing
Methods and programs for training healthcare staff on correct use of PPE were largely left for
individual health services and facilities to develop. Fit testing was also an issue, with
healthcare workers reporting that they had not been fit-tested for N95/P2 prior to use
(Volker, 2020). Incorrect fit of respirators can render them ineffective in preventing the
transmission of pathogens. Fit-testing and fit-checking are crucial components of any training
program in infection prevention and control and must be conducted prior to use to protect
healthcare workers and their patients. PPE training and fit testing of P2/N95 masks are
essential for any type of infection control and we see this as one opportunity to strengthen in
responding to future pandemics.


Quarantine
The constitutional responsibility for controlling Australia's borders sits with the Australian
Government. However, the Government failed to take responsibility for quarantine during
the pandemic which was evident at the first National Cabinet meeting where "the Prime
Minister shocked state and territory leaders by arriving at the meeting without a quarantine
plan" (Commonwealth of Australia, 2022, p. 37). The states and territories were left to
develop their own quarantine processes without any preparation or planning. One of the
recommendations from the Committee inquiry sought the Australian Government to agree
to "national principles for quarantine, including responsibility for provision of suitable
facilities and for funding, management and compliance" (Commonwealth of Australia, 2022,
p. 6).


One important lesson      learnt from the poor quarantine arrangements is that the
Commonwealth Government must develop a quarantine plan that is regularly updated,
tested, validated and evidence based. Where appropriate, states and territories can have
access to the plans and are resourced to implement the plans and know their roles and
responsibilities.



Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other
preventive health measures).
The QNMU will focus on mental health and suicide prevention supports and long COVID in
addressing this term on reference.




                                              19
Mental health and suicide prevention support
The impact of the pandemic, on health and mental health, is yet to be fully realised. However,
research is already showing that depression and anxiety were significantly higher and suicidal
thoughts increased during the pandemic then pre COVID-19, and those who were hospitalised
with COVID-19 experienced heightened adverse mental health (Bower et al., 2023). Physical
restriction measures such as lockdowns and quarantine are also associated with deteriorated
mental health including a higher incidence of both depression and post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD) symptoms. Further, were the economic impacts and financial stress
particularly on those who became unemployed or worked reduced hours (Australia's Mental
Health Think Tank, 2021).


The use and demand for mental health services in Australia greatly increased during the
pandemic with more Medicare-subsidised mental health-related services delivered, an
increase in the number of mental health related prescriptions dispensed under the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) and an increase in Australians engaging with suicide
prevention and mental health support helplines (AIHW, 2020b, 2023c).


The Transforming Indigenous Mental Health and Wellbeing team met early in the pandemic
to develop recommendations to protect the mental health and wellbeing of First Nations
peoples. These First Nations people-led initiatives enabled an effective public health response
to the pandemic. However, the longer-term impacts must be considered by governments due
to the pre-existing inequities within the social determinants of health which make First
Nations peoples vulnerable to health and mental health impacts (Dudgeon et al., 2023). A
report released by the national Australian Mental Health Think Tank (2021) also highlighted
deteriorating mental health as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, with a disproportionate
burden on First Nations peoples, people living with a disability or existing mental health issue
and culturally and linguistically diverse people.


With around 450,000 nurses and midwives in Australia, these professions are the largest
clinical workforce in the country and must be well supported as they are critical to meet the
healthcare needs of the Australian community (Department of Health and Aged Care, 2023).
However, research has shown that the pandemic placed additional stress and impacted the
physical and mental health and wellbeing of nurses and midwives and other healthcare
workers. A national survey of nurses, midwives, and personal care workers in 2020 looked at
the effect COVID-19 was having on this workforce. It found many Australian nurses and
midwives and personal care workers were moderately or extremely concerned for their own
psychological wellbeing (42.66%) or personal health and safety (44.11%). 16.63% had also
sought mental health or wellbeing support from external providers, strongly suggesting the
need for mental health support for nurses and midwives (Adelson et al., 2021; Rosemary
Bryant AO Research Centre, 2021). The long-term mental health effects on the nursing



                                               20
workforce are not yet known. Their resilience and preparedness to work through a
subsequent pandemic or national health emergency is also yet to be determined.


These pandemic-induced impacts on mental health must not be viewed in isolation but within
the context of Australia's current mental health system and the mental health of Australians
pre COVID-19. The QNMU has long supported the need for community mental health services
which could have extended hours and be an alternative for people with a mental illness or
disorder or suicide ideation to access rather than presenting at hospital emergency
departments. In our view, they are imperative in reducing the burden on inpatient units and
avoiding hospital admission. Mental health clinics like those the Commonwealth Government
funded during Victoria's second lockdown, provided much needed additional mental health
support in the community, which we see as an opportunity to determine their effectiveness
for further pandemics.


Long COVID
The full impact of long COVID on an individuals' physical health and mental health, their work
capacity, and the healthcare system, are yet to be seen. The QNMU considers a management
plan for long COVID as critical as compared to international standards, Australia has generally
been slow to recognise and investigate possible cases of long COVID (Luo et al., 2023).
Researchers have also found that the availability of multidisciplinary long COVID services was
lacking in Australia, as was accessibility of trustworthy public health information (Luo et al.,
2023).


Strategies that include how long COVID is identified, when treatment is to be provided and
who delivers this care may fall within the remit of state and territory healthcare systems to
develop. However, we see Australia's CDC as having a major role in reporting and learning
about the signs and symptoms of long COVID and short- and long-term effects of long COVID.


Innovative models of care to address long COVID must:
   •     Provide information that identifies when to seek professional support if COVID-19
         symptoms persist (Luo et al., 2023).
   •         Be multidisciplinary and include services provided by nurses and midwives.
   •         Provide access to information that includes education and self-care strategies.
   •         Be patient-centred and address patients' needs.
   •         Be evidence-based and use up-to-date research and data.
   •         Consider the impact of pre-existing conditions.
   •         Provide value-based care.
   •         Include virtual care where appropriate.
   •         Ensure ongoing training for health practitioners in identifying and treating long COVID.
   •         Be affordable.


                                                21
   •       Have ongoing government funding.
   •       Be evaluated and reviewed to ensure usefulness.



International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to
international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international
partners for domestic use in Australia).
Policies for international border closures and ensuring a secure vaccine supply are critical. The
early insufficient vaccine supply emphasised the importance for consulting and planning and
securing different supply chains. Securing vaccine supplies, including both in Australia and
overseas is critical to Australia being on the front foot for when the next pandemic hits. This
sovereign vaccine capability will ensure rapid action and the ability to mobilise quickly to any
viral disease outbreaks. Australia must also support our Pacific neighbours and "Australia
could and should set itself the mission of being able to supply our region's vaccine and
essential drug needs for the future" (Hensher & Wanni Arachchige Dona, 2022, p. 558).


Criticism has been levelled at the Government for the inadequate handling of Australians
stranded overseas when international borders closed, with caps placed on international
arrivals. In August 2020, figures from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT)
showed up to 40,000 Australians were based overseas and wanting to return. Of these, 5,000
were classed by the government as 'vulnerable' (Commonwealth of Australia, 2022). Despite
the Commonwealth Government having a constitutional responsibility for incoming arrivals
and quarantine, the government took a piecemeal approach to bringing Australians home,
placing the responsibility and expense on individuals. The Commonwealth Government did
not adequately prepare or plan for Australian residents to return home and their decisions
caused financial hardship and stress for those citizens. In the planning for future pandemics
and public health concerns, the government must include resources to assist Australians who
are overseas to be able to return to their homeland.



Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport
issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).
In this term of reference, the QNMU will address the role of unions, pink collar industries and
the impact on female workers, the need for pandemic leave for all and support for supply
chains.


Role of unions
During the often politicised and polarised response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the QNMU
and the ANMF provided members with up-to-date advice, evidence-based resources and
information, support and regular conversations with workers and employers. At the start of




                                               22
the pandemic2 alone, the QNMU received almost 600 phone calls directly related to COVID-
19. Our members concerns included:
    •         Being part of a vulnerable group and concerned about their health and safety.
    •    Member being pregnant and how COVID-19 could affect their health and that of their
         unborn baby.
    •         Concern for exposing family to health risks.
    •         Patient screening protocol.
    •         Concern for safety and health of student nurses on placement.
    •         Concerns about safe work in theatre.
    •         Converting wards to COVID-19 wards.

The greater union movement has played a pivotal role in representing and advocating for the
interests, rights, and safety of workers during the pandemic. Research from the International
Labour Organisation (ILO) shows that if the United States had the union density of 35 percent
that it had in 1954 instead of today's rate of 10 percent, the COVID-19 mortality rate for
working people would have been 19 per 100,000 instead of the 26 actually observed (Soares
& Berg, 2023). The ILO report authors conclude that because unions provide greater
protections against dismissal, employees are more willing to voice their concerns about
health and safety. Furthermore, during the pandemic, unions were effective in securing
enhanced work health and safety measures including access to PPE, COVID-19 testing and
leave (Soares & Berg, 2023).


Unions have worked closely with governments to respond to the pandemic and have
campaigned for flexible, fair responses that were beneficial for workers, businesses, the
economy, and society. This included advocating for work, health and safety measures and
paid pandemic leave for all workers, noting the increased risk of health care workers
contracting COVID-19 during their employment and the likelihood of requiring self-isolation
or quarantine. For these frontline workers, who were often in casual and insecure work
arrangements, access to paid leave entitlements was not an option.


The union movement's push for job security measures to support casual and insecure workers
was pivotal in the Commonwealth Government's introduction of the JobKeeper wage subsidy
scheme. Whilst the scheme offered some relief, unions pushed back on changes to the Fair
Work Act 2009 that would unfairly disadvantage workers such as temporary stand-down
directives, reductions to hours of work and determining locations at which work could be
performed.


Unions recognised the need to protect worker's jobs and implement appropriate safeguards
to ensure that industrial and workplace changes were only made where appropriate for the



2 01/02/2020 to 30/04/2020.

                                               23
preservation of employment and business viability (O'Neil, 2021). Throughout the pandemic,
unions played an important role in supporting a flexible and agile industrial system that could
respond to the crisis, whilst ensuring the balance of safeguarding the rights and conditions of
workers.


The pandemic also highlighted some of the serious structural deficiencies in our labour
market and our industrial relations system and the impacts of over-reliance on insecure forms
of work. This was particularly reflected in the vulnerability of the aged care sector,
characterised by over-reliance on temporary labour hire, inadequate staffing levels, cost
cutting and privatisation of the sector.


The QNMU supports the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) in advocating for all
workers to have access to paid pandemic leave if they are required to self-isolate and are
unable to work. This would stop the spread of the disease and ensure compliance with
recommendations to self-quarantine (ACTU, 2020). This would alleviate disparities across
industries in pandemic leave access and protect the health of workers and their income.


Pink collar industries
The impact of the pandemic on female workers, referred to here as 'pink collar' saw women
experience more job losses, were likely to do more unpaid work and less likely to receive
government support than males (Wood et al., 2021). The loss of formal and informal childcare
during the pandemic saw the increase of unpaid work particularly for women, with many
finding it difficult to juggle their existing paid work commitments with childcare (Wood et al.,
2021). This impost on families was largely ignored by the government. When the government
cut JobKeeper for the childcare industry while announcing subsidies for the construction
industry, a predominately male industry, this gendered misstep highlighted the gender
imbalance of the impact of COVID-19.


A positive outcome though was the government's support of the aged care sector, which is
traditionally a female-dominated industry, where an aged care retention bonus was available
in an effort to retain aged care workers.


The QNMU would be supportive of the government taking a longer-term focus on feminised
professions3 to boost women's workforce participation and economic security, which would
then afford some protection to women for future pandemics.


Supply chain issues
As the pandemic has demonstrated, the capacity of nurses and midwives to provide safe,
high-quality care is directly affected by the supply of essential therapeutic goods (medicines



3 Healthcare, Aged care, disability care, childcare

                                                      24
and devices). The "just in time" free market approach and Australia's gradual loss of
manufacturing capacity has seen over 90% of Australia's medicines and PPE imported
(Institute for Integrated Economic Research, 2022). To quickly respond to future pandemics,
there must be a deliberate focus on national supply chains and less reliance on international
imports.


The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) sought feedback on Building a more robust
medicine supply, where the QNMU supported these strategic level activities to be taken:
   •   A whole-of-nation response to the issue of medicines supply involving all relevant
       levels of government, regulators, and other stakeholders.
   •   Analysis of supply chains to identify vulnerabilities and build system redundancy using
       all the levers available to government, e.g., policy, legislation, regulation.
   •   Commonwealth Government          policies aimed at the       reinvigoration of onshore
       production of essential medicines and precursors through the use of policy, tax and
       contractual incentives.
   •   Development of a national medicines stockpile (in addition to essential medical
       equipment).
   •   Regulatory requirements for suppliers regarding early notification of medicines supply
       issues.

The QNMU supports measures to build a robust and resilient medicines supply for Australia
and the Pacific region. Re-engineering of current medicines supply systems to incorporate the
lessons learned during the pandemic is essential.



Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).
The difficulty many have faced in accessing wages during the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed
the inequality between high- and low-income earners. The federal government's economic
package released during the pandemic saw the unemployment benefits increase and the
introduction of the JobKeeper scheme. While undoubtedly welcomed, many still felt the
financial strain and were unable to meet their living expenses during the pandemic.


In March 2020 the federal government announced that those affected by the pandemic, or
the economic downturn could apply to access up to $10,000 of their superannuation in 2019­
2020 and up to a further $10,000 in 2020-2021. In the first month, more than 1.65 million
Australians withdrew $13.2 billion from their superannuation. By 23 August 2020, over $32.2
billion of early release super had been paid to approximately 3.1 million members, 1.2 million
of whom made a repeat application. At the start of September 2020, the total sum was
forecast to be at least $42 billion (Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees, 2020;
Parnell, 2020). Those who applied for early release of their superannuation have been
generally low paid workers, people in already insecure employment and women.



                                               25
Unfortunately, many see this government initiative as entrenching existing inequality in
Australia's retirement savings (Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees, 2020). A
report by the Australian Institute of Family Studies found that whilst accessing funds early
provided immediate financial relief, for some, the long-term impact on retirement savings
may mean the difference between a comfortable lifestyle in retirement and relying on the
age pension (Warren, 2021). Although the long-term impacts of this policy are yet to be
realised, it is suspected that these early withdrawals may widen the gender superannuation
gap, with women experiencing disproportionate disadvantage during the pandemic, working
in low paid, insecure arrangements. These women may have little choice but to access funds
and face a greater financial burden long-term.


This scheme suggests a short-sighted and misguided view of superannuation and raises the
question that if the JobKeeper scheme had covered more of the workforce, then the Early
Retirement Scheme may not have even been required.



Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education,
housing and homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of
Commonwealth Government responsibility).
The Commonwealth Government announced several community funding support packages
that demonstrated a necessary investment in the country's capacity to respond to and
recover from the pandemic. The QNMU supported the Government's investment in building
the capacity of the health care workforce through the Job-ready Graduates higher education
relief package. The investment guaranteed $18bn to be allocated to domestic students,
waiving $100m in fees and regulatory costs, and the short-term availability of 20,000 places
in nursing, teaching, health, information technology and science courses (Department of
Education, 2023).


The QNMU also welcomed the Commonwealth Government's announcement of $150 million
in March 2020 to bolster domestic and family violence programs (Australian Government,
2019). Unfortunately, the prevalence of domestic and family violence increased during the
pandemic and exacerbated existing service gaps and barriers to accessing services, especially
for women and children and those already marginalised (Boxall et al., 2020). It remains
critically important that approaches to prevention and responses to violence require holistic,
sustained, and long-term investment, and intersectional approaches with outreach and
community services. The QNMU calls on the Commonwealth Government to ensure that
these services continue to receive the necessary support and funding to prioritise prevention
measures and enable access to services beyond the pandemic.




                                             26
Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
(including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
linguistically diverse communities).
The differential impact of the pandemic on different population groups has implications for
future pandemic responses and their effectiveness. The COVID-19 pandemic showed the
need for place and population-sensitive policies, strategies and supports. The QNMU has
chosen to focus on the pandemic interventions for First Nations peoples, those from culturally
and linguistically diverse backgrounds, those with a disability and the more significant impact
of the pandemic on women, than men.


First Nations peoples needs during the pandemic
First Nations peoples must be identified as a priority population group for future pandemics
as the risk to their health and wellbeing is heightened due to pre-existing inequities in health
and socio-economic outcomes when compared to non-lndigenous populations.


During the COVID-19 pandemic, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public health
practitioners and researchers have been pivotal in identifying the issues, setting priorities and
suggesting solutions for culturally informed strategies (Crooks et al., 2020). These First
Nations peoples-led initiatives enabled an effective public health response to the pandemic.
For instance, First Nations health practitioners played a critical role in First Nations-led
vaccination programs. An example is the First Nations COVID-19 Vaccination Team, a group
of nurses in the Torres Strait who visited communities to provide vaccination rather than have
a fixed place where people had to attend. Vaccinations delivered by the First Nations team
ensured a greater vaccination rate amongst First Nations communities rather than via models
more suitable to engage with more Western communities.


The QNMU emphasises the importance in recognising First Nations People's communities are
diverse, and a one-size-fits-all approach to pandemic preparedness and management are
likely to place constraints on its success. Any approach to future pandemics or health
emergencies must allow for communities to self-determine its needs and approaches.


Culturally and linguistically diverse communities needs during the pandemic
With approximately one in four Australian households speaking a language other than
English, the need for official COVID-19 health communications in languages other than English
was and continues to be imperative (AIHW, 2023a). This diverse community often face greater
challenges in accessing healthcare and navigating the health system which was heightened
during the pandemic with research showing that for some their social support activities were
disrupted and accessing social services was more difficult than pre-pandemic. Failure to
engage effectively with the CALD community not only places individual members of that


                                               T1
community at risk but also places the entire CALD community at risk because of
misunderstanding and non-compliance with protective health behaviours (Hamiduzzaman et
al., 2022; Mude et al., 2021). Future responses for a pandemic should be focused on genuine
collaboration and partnerships with CALD communities and leaders to tailor government
communication initiatives more effectively.


The needs of people with a disability during the pandemic
The Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People with Disability
published a Public Hearing Report that examined the experiences of people with disability
during the     pandemic   (Commonwealth       of Australia,   2020). The QNMU        urges the
Commonwealth Government to consider the detailed recommendations in this report. Like
CALD populations, one key finding of the report is that a failure to develop a tailored response
or to meaningfully consult, placed persons with a disability at risk and further exacerbated
inequalities. This report highlights that the disability sector was largely forgotten during the
initial COVID-19 response (Commonwealth of Australia, 2020). Future government responses
require a more proactive role in protecting people with a disability, providing more support
and meaningful consultation regarding the unique needs and challenges of the disability
sector.


Gendered impacts
Women have faced disproportionate challenges during the pandemic. Research shows that
"... women have experienced more significant impacts on their overall employment, hours of
work, domestic labour and mental health and wellbeing" (University of Queensland, 2022).
This in part is caused by the over-representation of women in occupations most affected by
lockdowns, with women more likely to be employed as casual or part-time. Furthermore, are
their caring responsibilities and the entrenched gender biases and attitudes about women's
role in society.


Despite the heavy reliance on female-dominated industries in responding to COVID-19, like
nursing and midwifery, federal policy did not directly support women, nor address the existing
and escalating gender inequalities during the pandemic.


Mechanisms that better target gender inequities for future pandemics must be underpinned
by advancing gender equity today. Flexible working arrangements and access to childcare
support must be expanded for men and women, to provide better recognition of women's
labour and distribution of unpaid work, and support women's ability to participate in the
workforce. Improving women's economic security and financial independence and the gender
pay gap, encouraging women's representation in leadership positions and addressing housing
affordability and homelessness will also reduce gender inequalities. Increased funding and
measures to prevent and respond to gender-based violence must also be a priority.



                                               28
References
Adelson, P., Fish, J., Peters, M. D. J., Corsini, N., Sharplin, G., & Eckert, M. (2021). COVID-19
        and workforce wellbeing: A survey of the Australian nursing, midwifery, and care
        worker workforce. A report prepared for the Australian Nursing and Midwifery
        Federation.
        https://www.unisa.edu.au/contentassets/4784e89b42124909b2e22d331348daf2/co
        vid-19-and-workforce-wellbeing-survey_report_final.pdf
Aitken, G. E., Holmes, A. L, & Ibrahim, J. E. (2021). COVID-19 and residential aged care:
        priorities for optimising preparation and management of outbreaks. Medical Journal
        of Australia, 214(1), 6-8.el. https://doi.Org/https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.50892
Australia's Mental Health Think Tank. (2021). COVID-19 and Australia's mental health.
        https://mentalhealththinktank.org.au/wp-
        content/uploads/2021/10/AustraliasMentalHealthThinkTank-EvidenceSummary-
        COVID-MentalHealth.pdf
Australian Council of Trade Unions. (2020). Paid Pandemic Leave: ACTU Policy Brief.
        https://www.actu.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/medial449233d40-paid-
        pandemic-leave.pdf
Australian Government. (2019). Women's Safety: National Plan to to Reduce Violence
        against Women and their Children 2010-2022. Retrieved 8 December from
        https://www.dss.gov.au/women/programs-services/reducing-violence/the-national-
        plan-to-reduce-violence-against-women-and-their-children-2010-2022
Australian Government. (2020). National Partnership on COVID-19 Response.
        https://federalfinancialrelations.gov.aU/sites/federalfinancialrelations.gov.au/files/2
        021-04/covid-19_response_vacci ne_amendment_schedule.pdf
Australian Human Rights Commission, (n.d.). What is the Commission's view on limiting
        human rights during COVID-19? https://humanrights.gov.au/about/covidl9-and-
        human-rights/what-commissions-view-limiting-human-rights-during-covid-19
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2020a). Elective Surgery.
        https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-data/myhospitals/sectors/elective-surgery
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2020b, 17 December). How COVID-19 changed
        the way Australians used health services in 2019-20 https://www.aihw.gov.au/news-
        media/media-releases/2020/december/how-covid-19-changed-the-way-australians-
        used-heal
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2022). Changes in the health of Australians
        during the COVID-19 period, https://www.aihw.gov.au/getmedia/cb5f5bbb-df0b-
        4alc-9796-25ea2e94e447/aihw-aus-240_chapter_2.pdf.aspx
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2023a, 25 October). Culturally and linguistically
        diverse Australians. Retrieved 8 December from https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports-
        data/population-groups/cald-australians/overview
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2023b). Health system spending on the response
        to COVID-19 in Australia 2019-20 to 2021-22.
        https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/health-welfare-expenditure/health-system-
        spending-on-the-response-to-covid-19/contents/introduction
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2023c, 27 August). Suicide & self-harm
        monitoring: The use of mental health services, psychological distress, loneliness,
        suicide, ambulance attendances and COVID-19. Retrieved 7 December from
        https://www.aihw.gov.au/suicide-self-harm-monitoring/data/covid-19

                                               29
Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees. (2020, 2 September). COVID Super Gap
Ayton, D., Soh, S. E., Berkovic, D., Parker, C., Yu, K., Honeyman, D., Manocha, R., MacIntyre,
         R., & Ananda-Rajah, M. (2022). Experiences of personal protective equipment by
        Australian healthcare workers during the COVID-19 pandemic, 2020: A cross­
         sectional study. PLoS One, 17(6), e0269484.
         https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0269484
Bower, M., Smout, S., Donohoe-Bales, A., O'Dean, S., Teesson, L, Boyle, J., Lim, D., Nguyen,
        A., Calear, A. L, Batterham, P. J., Gournay, K., & Teesson, M. (2023). A hidden
         pandemic? An umbrella review of global evidence on mental health in the time of
         COVID-19. Front Psychiatry, 14, 1107560.
         https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1107560
Boxall, H., Morgan, A., & Brown, R. (2020). The prevalence of domestic violence among
         women during the COVID-19 pandemic. Statistical Bulletin no. 28. Canberra:
        Australian Institute of Criminology, https://doi.org/10.52922/sb04718
Bradfield, Z., Hauck, Y., Homer, C. S. E., Sweet, L, Wilson, A. N., Szabo, R. A., Wynter, K.,
        Vasilevski, V., & Kuliukas, L. (2022). Midwives' experiences of providing maternity
         care during the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia. Women Birth, 35(3), 262-271.
         https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.wombi.2021.02.007
Commonwealth of Australia. (2020). Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and
         Exploitation of People with Disability Report on Public hearing 5: Experiences of
        people with disability during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
         https://disability.royalcommission.gov.au/system/files/2020-ll/Report%20-
         %20Public%20hearing%205%20-
         %20Experiences%20of%20people%20with%20disability%20during%20the%20ongoin
        g%20COVID-19%20pa ndemic.pdf
Commonwealth of Australia. (2022). Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 Final Report.
         https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Committees/Senate/COVID-
         19/COVID19/Report
Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Health. (2020). Australian
         health sector emergency response plan for novel coronavirus (COVID-19).
         https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/australian-health-sector-
         emergency-response-plan-for-novel-coronavirus-covid-19?language=en
Crooks, K., Casey, D., & Ward, J. S. (2020). First Nations peoples leading the way in COVID-19
         pandemic planning, response and management. Medical Journal of Australia, 213(4),
         151-152.el51. https://doi.Org/https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.50704
Dalzell, S. (2020,19 November). Federal Government used Google Translate for COVID-19
         messaging aimed at multicultural communities. ABC News.
         https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-ll-19/government-used-google-translate-for-
         nonsensical-covid-19-tweet/12897200
Department of Education. (2023, 19 July). Improving higher education for students.
         Retrieved 8 December from https://www.education.gov.au/job-ready/improving-
         higher-education-students
Department of Health and Aged Care. (2022, 10 August). Failed COVIDSafe app deleted
         https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-mark-butler-mp/media/failed-
         covidsafe-app-deleted
Department of Health and Aged Care. (2023, 5 April). Nurses and Midwives. Retrieved 7
         December from https://www.health.gov.au/topics/nurses-and-midwives/in-


                                              30
         australia#:~:text=337%2C000%20registered%20nurses,28%2C800%20midwives%20
         with%20dual%20registration.
Duckett, S. (2022). Public Health Management of the COVID-19 Pandemic in Australia: The
         Role of the Morrison Government. IntJ Environ Res Public Health, 19(16).
         https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerphl91610400
Duckett, S., Mackay, W., Stobart, A., Swerissen, H., & Parsonage, H. (2020). Coming out of
         COVID-19 lockdown: The next steps for Australian health care.
         https://grattan.edu.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Coming-out-of-COVID-
         lockdown-the-next-steps-for-Australian-health-care.pdf
Dudgeon, P., Collova, J. R., Derry, K., & Sutherland, S. (2023). Lessons Learned during a
         Rapidly Evolving COVID-19 Pandemic: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander-Led
         Mental Health and Wellbeing Responses Are Key. Int J Environ Res Public Health,
         20(3). https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph20032173
Hamiduzzaman, M., Siddiquee, N., McLaren, H., Tareque, M. I., & Smith, A. (2022). Risk
         Perception and Health Precautions Towards COVID-19 Among Older Culturally and
         Linguistically Diverse Adults in South Australia: A Cross-Sectional Survey. J Multidiscip
         Healthc, 15, 497-514. https://doi.org/10.2147/jmdh.S343985
Hensher, M., & Wanni Arachchige Dona, S. (2022). COVID-19 vaccines, boosters and
         mandates: Building a mission economy, not a rentier paradise. MJA, 216(11), 556­
         558. https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.51500
Institute for Integrated Economic Research. (2022). The Australian health system in 2022.
         What has changed in the last two years ... what do we need to do differently?
         https://www.iier.us/
Johnston, I., & PHAA. (2020). Australia's public health response to COVID-19: What have we
         done, and where to from here? Australia and New Zealand Journal of Public Health,
         44(6), 440-445. https://doi.org/10.llll/1753-6405.13051
KPMG. (2018). Cost Benefit Analysis of Nurse Practitioner Models of Care Report.
         https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2021/03/cost-benefit-
         analysis-of-nurse-practitioner-models-of-care.pdf
KPMG. (2019). Innovations in Health Funding - Global Horizon Scan. KPMG.
         https://www.ihacpa.gov.au/sites/default/files/2022-
         02/lnnovations%20in%20Health%20Funding%20%E2%80%93%20Global%20Horizon
         %20Scan.pdf
Luo, S., Zheng, Z., Bird, S. R., Piebanski, M., Figueiredo, B., Jessup, R., Stelmach, W.,
         Robinson, J. A., Xenos, S., Olasoji, M., Wan, D. W. L., Sheahan, J., & Itsiopoulos, C.
         (2023). An Overview of Long COVID Support Services in Australia and International
         Clinical Guidelines, With a Proposed Care Model in a Global Context [Review]. Public
         Health Reviews, 44. https://doi.org/10.3389/phrs.2023.1606084
Macmillan, J. (2021, 1 July). Malcolm Turnbull criticises Australian COVID-19 vaccine rollout,
         particularly mixed messaging on AstraZeneca, https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-
         07-01/malcolm-turnbull-criticises-australian-covid-19-vaccine-rollout/100260940
Mude, W., Meru, C., Njue, C., & Fanany, R. (2021). A cross-sectional study of COVID-19
         impacts in culturally and linguistically diverse communities in greater Western
         Sydney, Australia. BMC Public Health, 21(1), 2081. https://doi.org/10.1186/sl2889-
         021-12172-y




                                               31
Nayna Schwerdtle, P., Connell, C. J., Lee, S., Plummer, V., Russo, P. L., Endacott, R., & Kuhn,
        L. (2020). Nurse expertise: A critical resource in the COVID-19 pandemic response.
        Annals of Global Health, 36(1), 49. https://doi.org/10.5334/aogh.2898
O'Neil, M. (2021). The Australian industrial system in the era of COVID-19. Journal of
        Industrial Relations, 63(3), 422-431. https://doi.org/10.1177/00221856211012827
Park, S., Fisher, C., Young Lee, J., & McGuinnes, K. (2020). COVID-19: Australian news and
        misinformation, https://www.canberra.edu.au/research/faculty-research-
        centres/nmrc/research/covid-19-australian-news-and-misinformation
Parnell, S. (2020, 15 September). Public servants lead $710m dash for cash from QSuper
        retirement funds. In Queensland, https://inqld.com.au/news/2020/09/15/public-
        servants-lead-cash-dash-as-qsuper-members-withdraw-710m-from-retirement-
        funds/
Productivity Commission. (2017). Shifting the Dial: 5 Year Productivity Review, Report No.
        84. https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/productivity-
        review/report/prod uctivity-review.pdf
Queensland Health. (2020). Nurses and Midwives EB10 Innovation Fund: Nurse Practitioner
        Innovation Project Evaluation Report.
        https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__ data/assets/pdf_file/0014/1126220/nurse-
        practitioner-inovation-report.pdf
Queensland Health. (2022). Maternity care for mothers and babies during the COVID-19
        pandemic. Guideline No. MN21.63-V12-R26.
        https://www.health.qld.gov.au/__ data/assets/pdf_file/0033/947148/g-covid-19.pdf
RMIT University. (2022,17 August). Why did this $21 million COVID-tracing app fail?
        https://www.rmit.edu.au/news/acumen/covidsafe_app#:~:text=As%20CQVIDSafe%
        20was%20developed%20and,quickly%20overwhelmed%20by%20data%20volume.
Rosemary Bryant AO Research Centre. (2021). COVID-19 and workforce wellbeing: A survey
        of the Australian nursing, midwifery, and care worker workforce.
        https://www.unisa.edu.au/contentassets/4784e89b42124909b2e22d331348daf2/co
        vid-19-and-workforce-wellbeing-survey_report_final.pdf
Smith, M. J., & Upshur, R. E. G. (2020). Learning lessons from COVID-19 requires recognising
        moral failures. Bioethical Inguiry, 17, 563-566. https://doi.org/10.1007/sll673-020-
        10019-6
Soares, S., & Berg, J. (2023). Mortality from COVID-19 in the US: Did unions save lives? ILO
         Working Paper 98. Geneva, ILO. https://doi.org/10.54394/DXWP9706
Tanne, J. H. (2022). US CDC announces major changes after criticism of its responses to
        covid-19 and monkeypox, bmj, 378, o2074. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.o2074
University of Queensland. (2022, 23 August). COVID-19 pandemic fallout worse for women.
        UQ News, https://www.uq.edu.au/news/article/2022/08/covid-19-pandemic-fallout-
        worse-
        women#:~:text=A%20study%20conducted%20by%20the,and%20mental%20health%
        20and%20well being.
Volker, S. (2020). Queensland health workers not protected by ill-fitting PPE and face masks,
        representatives say. https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-ll-16/face-mask-ppe-fit-
        testing-not-happening-in-qld-hospitals-covid/12887542
Warren, D. (2021). Towards COVID Normal Report no. 6: The COVID-19 early release of
        superannuation. (Families in Australia Survey) https://aifs.gov.au/research/research-
        reports/towards-covid-normal-early-release-superannuation-through-family-lens


                                              32
Westfund Health Insurance. (2023). Westfund regional health gap report: Calling for a new
       approach to health care for Australia's regions.
       https://editor.westfund.com.au/media/sl2owgn2/20230828_regional-gap-report-
       2023.pdf
Wilson, A. N., Spotswood, N., Hayman, G. S., Vogel, J. P., Narasia, J., Elijah, A., Morgan, C.,
       Morgan, A., Beeson, J., & Homer, C. S. E. (2020). Improving the quality of maternal
       and newborn care in the Pacific region: A scoping review. Lancet Reg Health West
       Pac, 3,100028. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.lanwpc.2020.100028
Wilson, E., Hanson, L. C., Tori, K. E., & Perrin, B. M. (2021). Nurse practitioner led model of
       after-hours emergency care in an Australian rural urgent care Centre: Health service
       stakeholder perceptions. BMC Health Services Research, 21(1), 819.
       https://doi.org/10.1186/sl2913-021-06864-9
Wood, D., Griffiths, K., & Crowley, T. (2021). Women's work: The impact of the COVID crisis
       on Australian women. Grattan Institute https://grattan.edu.au/report/womens-
       work/
Woodley, M. (2021, 2 June). 'There is airborne transmission' - but still no sign of PPE
       upgrades. News GP. https://wwwl.racgp.org.au/newsgp/clinical/there-is-airborne-
       transmission-but-still-no-sign-o




                                               33
