Submission to Covid-19 Response Inquiry



Thank you for giving the Australian people the opportunity to comment on Australia’s Covid-19
response.

I’m writing from a personal perspective and in regard to the issues Victorians in particular faced.
I am particularly disappointed that our former Premier will not be held to account for his attitude,
behaviour and decisions. I believe that should there be a future disaster of this magnitude, State
Leaders’ authority should take second place to Federal decisions, and no leader should be able
to extend his/her powers in the manner that Mr Andrews did. Victorians are still recovering from
the heavy handedness and lack of common sense displayed during 3 miserable years.
Speaking personally, I didn’t feel that I was being kept safe - more that I was being threatened,
coerced and controlled.

I would also like to register a personal protest at the vaccine mandates that cost me my jobs.
Expecting your fellow Australians to take an untested vaccine, forcing them with coercion and
threats to their livelihood if they don't comply, and making it impossible for them to continue in
their employment if they refuse to comply, is absolutely unacceptable and should never be
repeated. The Federal Government may not have been responsible for these measures, but
they should not be seen to be so powerless when it comes to overreach by State leaders.

What compensation will I receive, now that the majority of these requirements have been lifted?
I, and others like me, were never going to pose a risk. I was quite happy to wear a mask, keep
to the recommended distance, and sanitise carefully, but not only was this not acceptable, I had
to be punished. My income has halved and I’m cautious about entering a workplace that may be
forced by government to implement such measures again.

You have a serious challenge ahead, to rebuild the trust and confidence of Australians. We can’t
have a repeat of the fear, divisiveness and bullying that resulted from government responses.
Most Australians are well educated and capable of thinking and making good decisions, if given
the correct and truthful information. They don’t need to be ‘controlled’ in the way that the
Covid-19 responses attempted to do. I hope that the Inquiries findings will result some sensible
and reasonable recommendations going forward.
