I am

Dr Philip Bradfield STOWELL MB BS (London) FACNEM




I have been a GP since 1978, firstly in th^^H where I trained and qualified a


I emigrated to Australia in^^^^vorked as a locum for 3 yrs or so and then set up my own General

Practice with a special interest in Integrative Medicine, having earned a Fellowship of the Australian
(later Australasian) College of Nutrition and Environmental Medicine in 1990.

SUBMISSION

I have been appalled and ashamed by the national (and international), institutional and professional
responses to the so called Covid 19 Pandemic. They have all been so dangerous and thoughtless, well
at least lacking any common sense.

If you look at the real-world death data worldwide there has actually been no pandemic in terms
that had been understood for decades until 2019. At around that time the WHO changed the
definition of a pandemic and of a vaccine to suit the new ideas of control of global health and the
development of mRNA product that is, by all accounts and definitions, truly a                   Ref Dr
                 al

The mRNA product, quite incorrectly referred to as a vaccine, is unable to prevent transmission,
unable to prevent infection, and is associated with an horrific rate of side effects and sequelae
including depression of the immune system, the acceleration or re-awakening of previously
quiescent cancers, auto-immune disease, myocarditis, neurotoxic syndromes and death. Some
estimates have calculated that up to 1:1000 injections are closely associated with death.

Around the world, since the beginning of the illegally enforced vaccination program, and NOT since
the supposed outbreak of SARS Cov 2 infections, there has been an excess death rate of between 15
and 25% that is not being investigated but whose cause is absolutely clear to those of us who refuse
to be silenced by the cancel culture that allows no scientific discussion - it's the untested
vaccinations.         presented data about a product that is NOT the one they actually put into
production.] Indeed, the Australian Government seems particularly and disgracefully uncurious
about this significant number of unusual deaths, but they are not alone, the same "I see no ships"
attitude is found in the UK and the USA and many parts of Europe. The lack of curiosity and of course
human care and concern is shocking to many of us.

This is all possible because there is a blatant and widespread 'system' of lying to maintain the official
Covid narrative, by the Main Stream Media ( MSM ). The control is such that journalists are clearly
controlled by the editorial policies of their owners.

This was embarrassingly obvious when listening to MSM news around the world when all the
presenters read from exactly the same script.
This shameful and embarrassing giveaway chorus was also observed in so many politicians'
pronouncements; from the initial "we have this narrow window of opportunity..." and the sickening
"build back better" .... To the totally untru^foHow the science" .... And the absurd and so frequently
wrong "trust the government" and finalI^^^^Hs execrable "we are the only reliable and true
source of accurate news" or words to that effect.

Interestingly most of thes^pronouncements came from 'graduates' of the Young Leaders political
school of the WEF run

I have to ask a number of questions and hope that you can see that there has been a gross
dereliction of duty from all levels of our society,

    a)         the Parliament, both government and
    b)         the opposition,
    c)     the TGA-who didn't even assess thel^H^B^H^^^^Hand misleading information
           from the drug companies - who just accepted what the USA did,
    d)     the MSM who used to act as a 4th Estate and served to keep public checks on the activity of
           government and alphabet agencies, now they are simply prerecorded mouthpieces for "The
           Offical Narrative"
    e)     the doctors, most of whom, took the morally dubious route of surrendering their
           professional principles and who have also surrendered their training, wisdom, knowledge
           and experience to AHPRA's fear campaign, "If you speak up, question or provide exemptions
           you will be disciplined"

THIS IS VERY ODD INDEED from one point of view

If AHPRA is set up to protect the public from the 'excesses' of the medical industry, what they have
actually done is to pick on, suspend and or discipline the very doctors who are actually using their
brains, their training and knowledge of the body, to caution their patients to wait and see how the
gene therapy vaccine actually works in practice before agreeing to have an injection. This is and was
normal caution using The Precautionary Principle that is now so annoying for this who want a fast
track to product release and profit.

AHPRA should have been cautioning the doctors actually giving out these shots and suspending them
instead.

The doctors and nurses giving the injections should have been ensuring that INFORMED CONSENT
existed before giving any shot and since we still don't fully know the extent of the damage caused by
have one or more of these injections, we still cannot be sure of informed consent; not least because
we know that the data Pfizer amassed in their trials did not relate to the actual product delivered to
each country.

In just one jurisdiction recently the records show that, of the patients injected by just one nurse,
some 400 patients have died. How would you feel if you were that nurse and you "were just doing
your job"?

In the past and indeed even recently with regard to one veterinary product 1 death was enough to
withdraw a new product.

People around the world have been asking repeatedly for these dangerous gene treatments to be
withdrawn, but there has been a coincident and huge increase in the numbers of bureaucrats,
politicians and doctors who have all become^^^^^^^^^^^^^B
Some facts

The IFR for Covid is no worse than the flu in most age groups.

The young have NO vulnerability and deaths from COVID really only affect the old with multiple
health problems.

The injections are useless for what they are intended to do i.e. to prevent spread, prevent infection,
improve immunity etc

We now know that mask wearing increases the risk of Covid and other infections

Lockdowns have had very serious psychological and educational sequelae the extent of which is
almost impossible to estimate

Social distancing of 2 m was simply an idea someone grabbed form the blue

So the questions I am left with are

    1)   When have you ever heard of all western governments talking with a single voice and using
         the same script
    2)   Why did the government believe the obvious pathetically overdramatic hype of the media
         from China about people collapsing in the street. Why did they then steadfastly set about
         spreading fear to the population as a whole. Something that continues to this day.
    3)   Why did the government abandon all previous known-to-be-effective plans for pandemics,
         which were sensible and not triggers for economic collapse, the erosion of the middle class,
         the threats to personal freedoms of speech, assembly and travel that are all core to our
         previously thriving democracy. Their response to Covid has caused all the above and more
         without any benefit to our health
    4)   Why did the government spread and encourage the widespread daily re-iteration of the
         messages of fear and alarm associated with complete lies about masks social distancing and
         lockdowns. Normal governments seek to calm and reassure people.
    5)   Why the ridiculous and dangerous suppression of all normal health advice to the extent that
         two of the most effective medications for treating the symptoms people had, were
         summarily banned and 'slagged off' as horse paste, when Ivermectin and
         Hydroxychloroquine are two of the safest and cheapest drugs in pharmaceutical history.
    6)   Finally even the advice to take extra Vitamin D was derided as ineffective irrelevant and
         possibly dangerous. This is disgraceful restriction of human knowledge, ingenuity and
         resource


         THE ANSWER HERE IS ALSO DISGRACEFUL.


         IF THESE DRUGS HAD NOT BEEN BANNED THEN THE GENE THERAPY (vaccines) SIMPLY
         COULD NOT HAVE BEEN GRANTED AN EUA EMERGENCY USE AUTHORISATION.
         EUAs CAN ONLY BE ISSUED IF THERE IS NO OTHER EXISTING EFFECTIVE THERAPY AVAILABLE.


         So, making the Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine unavailable by telling Drs they are
         suddenly and summarily NOT ALLOWED TO PRESCRIBE THEM FOR SUSPECTED COVID, meant
         that
         I)   The EUAs could be issued and the gene therapy released onto an unsuspecting and then
                incorrectly informed public
         II)    Many hundreds or thousands or people were immediately deprived of rapidly effective
                treatment which would have kept them out of the hospitals and hence avoided the
                patients exposure to Remdesivir - the ineffective killer antiviral that costs thousands of
                dollars, or the respiratory depressive effects of Midazolam that was dished out so readily
                in Nursing Homes.

         And,

         III) despite having received many letters from highly qualified experts advocating nutritional
                support for the immune system - such as Vitamins C D and Zinc - the government and
                health advisors around Australia completely ignored the information, and refused to
                pass on this health and life-saving advice
    7)   Why is there any need to suppress all intelligent discussion about the so-called pandemic,
         why do questions become so taboo, why given this NOVEL virus is the government the only
         source of accurate information? How could it possibly be that? Its an impossibility and the
         attempt stinks of tyrannical control.
    8)   During these times we doctors have also been told what we can and cannot say! Excuse me
         for asking whether we are in Russia           Germany. These restrictions are the key hints
         and clues to a creeping totalitarian tyranny that is becoming more and more obvious by the
         day.




I believe that in our response to the "pandemic" we as a country and as the individual states have
disgraced ourselves; as a result the economy and social structures, local and national, have been
damaged. The economy has been forcibly changed in ways that make it difficult to recover, all by
appearing to adhere to some sort of agreed script prepared in advance.

Soley and severally, our agencies and institutions have abandoned any pretense at integrity,
democratic principles of debate and freedom, and still seek to portray themselves to us as highly
informed, and as our saviours, while blatantly excluding a growing database of evidence that
contradicts almost everything they said in public and did behind closed doors.

Indeed, it has been said that had we as a country done absolutely nothing, no masks, no social
distancing, no lockdowns and no restrictions to gatherings or travel and particularly no injections;
had we allowed doctors to behave normally and prescribe freely and provide safe advice to protect
the vulnerable, the frail elderly, that our people would barely have noticed any difference from a
normally severe flu season.

For evidence of this look first at the experience of the AMISH. A simple community who eat well
work hard and don't vaccinate. They had no particular problems at all and NO INCREASED DEATHS.
Then look at the excess death rates in countries with low 'vaccination' rates, particularly in the
countries of Africa. They have low excess or no excess deaths.

By embracing so determinedly, and I believe, blindly in the vaccine solution to a hugely exaggerated
problem along with everything else forced on this populace in the last 31/2 yrs all in the name of
their duty and our safety, our agencies, our professionals, our politicians and bureaucrats have
abandoned common sense and have consequently and totally unnecessarily severely damaged the
social, spiritual, financial, political and economic health of all Australians.

LASTLY - this enquiry is, I believe, designed to achieve very little especially if it specifically excludes
what is happening around the world.
All the changes pushed by the globalists, the UN, the Gates Foundations and the WEF among others,
foretold since at least the 1970s, and described in detail in many documents not least "The Great
Reset" are now coming to pass and a full and free Royal Commission to look at all the events and
responses of the last 3-4 or should it be 50 years, is therefore urgently needed for the sake of the
ordinary Australian.
