I wish to request a full Royal Commission to investigate the management of the
Covid 19 responses by all levels of governments in Australia.

There are many lessons to be learned from the responses taken, that the panel can
use to inform future responses to any supposed viruses or bacteria that threated to
engulf the population in a way that causes pronounced death or risk to life. The
caveat should however be, that it genuinely does threaten to engulf and risk life and
is not an idea used to control or manipulate. I do not use these words flippantly.

Key health response measures

Firstly I would say that any declaration of imminent risk must involve the reference by
absolute specialists in the area. I found myself hungry for a virologist’s voice in the
so-called pandemic right from the beginning; but none was presented on the media,
quoted, or brought to our attention as a public. As a trained nurse, I know a
virologist would have instantly dismissed the approaches taken. Hence perhaps we
heard only from Epidemiologists or Chief Health Officers and many in the public and
public servants, would not know to question the absence of absolute specialists.

I lost my employment contract in the health sector from non-compliance to the
vaccine mandate. I am proud to have resisted this measure as I believe no
government should blackmail its people with an experimental novel drug that has
been shown to not only NOT stop transmission as a true ‘vaccine’ would, but has
maimed and killed many prematurely with its effect of accelerating cancers,
myocarditis in previously unaffected young and mature people, strokes, thrombosis,
seizures and high blood pressure that is now more common than ever in previously
unaffected people. We need only look at an example from the 1960s to show how
authoritative pronouncements of ‘safe and effective’ are used to mislead.......

In November, 1962, thalidomide was withdrawn from use in Australia but only now
has there been an official apology for the appalling harm inflicted by the sedative and
morning sickness drug on its users - pregnant women and their foetuses. Last
week, the Prime Minister delivered a formal apology in parliament to those killed or
permanently disabled by a poorly-tested drug that could result in congenital
malformations (most publicly visible in its victims as a shortening of the arms or
legs), miscarriages, sight or hearing loss, facial paralysis, damage to organs and
death.

“Too often, we have let you down”, a sombre PM said of the “parliaments and
governments” who failed the victims of Thalidomide and “all over the country,
expectant mothers were assured by doctors and chemists and advertisements that
this drug was perfectly safe, for them and for their baby”, his Apology said.

Almost everyone I know has had Covid 19 whether vaccinated or not. In all cases,
the body has dealt with the virus like all flu and virus and recovered.

Governance, including roles and responsibilities
Blackmailing people with their livelihoods and risking their lives with vaccine
mandates of an experimental questionable injected product, is gross overreach and
poor policy that needs a thorough exposure of the outcomes and ramifications by a
Royal Commission. We then may have hope to prevent policy of this draconian kind
based on false science from ever happening again.

International polices to support Australians at home and abroad

I cannot imagine a valid reason to lock out citizens abroad from returning home and
not finding a way to make that happen - no matter what. It is akin to keeping a
mother from her baby. The damage to psyche and family must be factored into any
such responses and lateral thinking employed, no matter the reason to impose
lockdowns - to bring people home as soon as possible with a dedicated focus and
rationale based on decency and ethics.

Today we know, that our Indian citizens banned from returning for 18 months, was
not necessary and was cruel. There will be other nationalities affected, but the
media covered this group the most, hence I highlight them.
