                                         Submission from Tricia Dearborn


A snapshot: It's December 2023. We're coming into the fifth year of the pandemic. We're
currently in a wave of Covid-19 - the eighth, or ninth, in Australia, depending on who you
ask.

But for some time now, the government (specifically Anthony Albanese) has been talking
about the pandemic in the past sense, as if it's over.

In NSW, where I am, current NSW Health advice for avoiding Covid prioritises washing your
hands and does not advise wearing a respirator but "being kind" to people who do. You
couldn't make this stuff up.



      NSW Health $
     20.6 K posts


     Do you need to refresh your COVID-safe habits to stop the spread of illness and protect others?




             These everyday habits can                                                                    *
             help us stay COVID safe                                                                      NSW




            Stay at home if you have                 Stay up to date with                         Get together
             cold or flu symptoms.                   your recommended                             where there’s
               Wear a mask if you                   COVID-19 vaccinations                           fresh air
              need to leave home




                                   Wash your hands                         Be kind to people who
                                 regularly using soap                      choose to wear a mask
                                  and water or hand
                                      sanitiser
                                Submission from Tricia Dearborn




Covid-19 is an airborne virus. Washing your hands (while a good idea generally) gives little
protection from it. Wearing a respirator/N95, however, gives good protection. NSW Health is
providing the public with faulty and misleading health advice.

Then there's the sheer LACK of health messaging. For example, on 24 November, the
@NSWHealth Twitter/X account announced that "COVID-19 transmission continues to
increase in NSW, with community transmission now moderate to high." On 25 November it
posted the graphic I've included above. Since then, while we're still in the current Covid
wave, @NSWHealth have posted about heatwaves, working in health in rural areas, etc., but
not a word about the current wave of Covid, or how people can protect themselves and
others from getting it.

When WHO announced the end of the emergency phase of the pandemic earlier in the year,
they said this: "The WHO Director-General stated COVID-19 remained a serious threat to
global health and, while countries should avoid complacency, it is time to transition from
emergency mode to managing COVID-19 alongside other infectious diseases."

This does not mean pretending the pandemic is over, or that Covid is like other infectious
diseases. By virtue of its after-effects, Covid is exceptional.

Covid is still a serious health threat, particularly when you factor in the post-Covid threats
like long Covid (which can include heart and brain damage) and other post-Covid effects like
heart attacks, strokes, kidney failure - Covid is known to have the potential to damage pretty
much every organ in the body.

But the government's public messaging about Covid encourages people to believe either
that it's all over, or that it's not that serious, by focusing only on the initial infection - which
is not the problem for most people. This means that fewer people take precautions, more
people end up with Covid, and (since Covid evolves in the human body) Covid gets many
more opportunities to circulate and to evolve into numerous variants, as it has continued to
do.

And this brings me to my third main point: the government is encouraging people to make
their own decisions about Covid safety without providing them with the information they
need to do so.

People are not being told that Covid is not, in fact, a simple respiratory disease but a
vascular disease with a respiratory presentation. People need to know that when they weigh
the odds of e.g. going to a party unprotected, they're not risking "just a cold", but all the
potential sequelae of Covid, which include not just dying of the disease (which they might
feel protected from because of their age), or ending up with debilitating long Covid, but a
raft of post-Covid sequelae. This could be explained to the public in simple terms, but public
health is not doing it.

This is a severe dereliction of duty. If public health bodies are not going to mandate safe(r)
behaviour, they must at least give people the information they need to make their own
                              Submission from Tricia Dearborn


decisions, particularly when these decisions affect not just the people themselves, not just
their loved ones, but the broader public and society as a whole.
