I am an Australian citizen by birth as were my parents and
grandparents. I have lived and worked in Australia and overseas. I
am going to address the terms of reference identified below based
on my experience and observations.

1. Governance including the role of the Commonwealth
Government, responsibilities of state and territory governments,
national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health
Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting
responses to COVID-19.

As I understand the Australian Constitution, the Commonwealth has
no legislative power with regard to health. The Commonwealth
Government should have kept its nose entirely out of covid. Leave
health matters, including contagious illnesses such as covid, to the
States and Territories to deal with as they see fit. I am sure they are
as competent as the Commonwealth - after all, federal politicians
come from the States and Territories. I say this not only because
health is none of the Commonwealth’s business but also because, it
seems to me, that the National Cabinet (an ill thought out idea-
Australia is a federation of sovereign jurisdictions and should not be
treated otherwise) resulted in appalling decision making akin to
group-think.

2. Key health response measures (for example across CO VID-19
vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal
protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
messaging).

What can be said about the public health messaging? My
goodness, what a massive propaganda exercise. Governments
should be ashamed of the fear-mongering and outrageous claims
made to coerce people into being vaccinated for covid. And it was
relentless; daily propaganda from Premiers and Chief Health
Officers. With at least two Chief Health Officers post-covid rising to
Governorship or Administrator level, one would be forgiven for
wondering if they were rewarded for - actually, for what? For scaring
the general population into submission via lockdowns, curfews,
mask-wearing, vaccinations with an experimental vaccine, travel
restrictions, quarantine? It was like living under an oppressive,
fascist regime. I hope to God I never have to live through anything
remotely like it again. I used to love Australia. Not any more. I
despise what this country became. Do not underestimate the level
of anger and resentment, distrust and disdain the general
population has for governments post-covid.

Let’s talk about quarantine facilities. It is not the quality of the
facilities which concerns me; it is the fact that I was locked up. I did
not commit a crime but I was essentially a prisoner (dress it up any
way you like, that is what it was) and to add insult to injury, I had to
pay for it! Twice! Firstly upon return to Australia and then in the
Northern Territory.

3. International policies to support Australians at home and abroad
(including with regard to international border closures, and securing
vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic use in
Australia).

What a joke. What support? I was living overseas and desperately
needed information from the Australian embassy in-country.
Embassy staff knew less than I did. When the government of the
country I was living in decided all foreigners had to leave the
country (certain exceptions), I could not for the life of me get any
useful advice from the Australian Government. I even resorted to
emailing Marise Payne’s office directly. I may as well not have
bothered, such was the quality of advice. The Australian
Government showed me it did not care. By the way, the country I
was living in is a ‘communist’ country and, let me tell you, that
government was more liberal and far less oppressive than the
Australian government I experienced upon return (having battled
my own way back).
4. Financial support for individuals (including income support
payments).

I was unemployable because I was not covid vaccinated. I was not
vaccinated because, and only because, the government mandated
vaccines. In effect, vaccination WAS mandated; despite what the
Prime Minister smugly said. I flatly refuse to be forced to be
vaccinated. It is simply wrong. By the way, I am vaccinated for a
plethora of diseases so do not presume I am anti-vaccinations. I am
not. So, I was unemployable, no^liqibl^oi^ovemment financial
assistance and my income was^|^|^|^^| Thanks for that
Governments.

That is all. Thank you for the opportunity.
