Submission and evidence to the COVID-19 Response
Inquiry - M Beech, 15 December 2023
About me: I am a practicing Naturopath located in                       I have been in practice
since 2010. One of the key precepts that I have learned is that everyone should be
encouraged to take responsibility for their own health. Public health policies are not really
relevant to the individual and it is despotic to use philosophies such as 'for the greater good'.
I am a 64 year old woman. Healthy, and try to follow my own precepts. I am a very
responsible person. I am honest, hardworking and love to help my fellow man or woman. I
know what we should be doing to maintain health and wellbeing. I feel the government's
response to this so-called pandemic has been the opposite in every way, extremely heavy­
handed and not in the interest of best practise in the health of our nation.

Early in 2020 when I heard of a 'pandemic' on its way I gave it due regard and was prepared
to help my patients with early treatment. However I was discouraged and even told by my
professional association that I can't offer any treatment for 'Covid' or Corona virus. I was
shocked and surprised and was on 'high alert' as helping people with seasonal 'lurgies' is
one of the fundamental mainstays of my practice. I started to suspect that things were not
right. Everything I knew and had learned about managing health conditions was against
everything I knew and practiced. This was the first red flag for me.

I listened to                        a highly qualified person, formerly a policy advisor and
trainer for the World Health Organisation. Everything she had taught in the management of
pandemics was completely reversed. Nations used to look after their own public health, and
all of a sudden it became a global agenda. When she protested that the WHO and
governments of the world were doing the opposite to best practice, she was pushed out of
her position at the WHO. This was a major red flag for me.

I started to get a whiff of an idea that the government was going to roll out a universal
vaccine. At this time the government introduced a lockdown, to 'shorten the curve'. These
lockdowns and restrictions became more and more draconian. The whole idea of wearing
dirty pieces of cloth on people's faces (face masks) and forcing them to isolate away from
society, having constant and invasive PCR tests was also a big red flag for me. Not being
allowed to spend time in the great outdoors, swim at the beach, participate in sporting
activities etc. The evening news, the 11.00 am updates were so fear-loaded and upsetting, I
could no longer watch the TV. I became increasingly aware that these measures and all the
fear-mongering were not in the interest of health, but perhaps some more sinister agenda.

I started to see patients who were very unwell from being forced to wear masks all day,
working in hot and humid conditions, eg childcare workers, teachers, ancillary health
personnel, hospitality staff etc. They were coming to me with strep throats, severe acne,
continuing respiratory complaints and breathing difficulties. I was seeing people who had
constant bleeding noses, headaches, sinus issues from their multiple insults with a 3 inch
swab forced way too high into their nasal cavity on a regular basis. I saw more and more
people with severe psychological issues, depression, fear, hopelessness, some even with
suicidal thoughts. I was meeting children whose socialisation skills, education and



                                                                                                1
confidence were severely impeded. I was aware of people who were no longer allowed to
see their relatives, sometimes their grandchildren, their parents, their siblings, their friends.
And this is still happening for many folk to this day. I personally knew of people who could
not attend funerals of their loved ones. We were not allowed to cross borders and
eventually even to travel 5 kms from our place of residence. I've never known it to be so
bad. The breakdown in our society was incredibly disturbing.

More red flags occurred for me when large corporate conglomerates such as Bunnings, K­
Mart, Coles, Woollies etc could freely operate. The liquor distributors such as Dan
Murphies, Liquorland etc were open with complete impunity. If 'public health' was an issue
here, they should have been the first to be shut down. Yet the government shut churches
but allowed massage parlors and^^^^Hto operate. The backbone of our economy, the
'mum and dad' small to medium businesses were shut down. The blaring hypocrisy was
disgusting. This was total devastation for many small businesses and for our economy.
Another massive red flag.

I became passionate about this unfortunate set of circumstances befalling my beloved
Australia and started to attend protests. I have a Constitutional right to do so. At one of
them I was arrested and incurred a large fine under the Covid measures, which was later
overturned, but I still had to pay court costs and 'victims' levies. I felt that I was the victim, I
was traumatised on many levels. On a couple of occasions, because I disagreed with the
fines I had been issued, my license to drive a motor vehicle was suspended. I started to
think we were living                                Big red flag!

Then the Covid 19 so-called vaccines were rolled out along with the totally unreasonable
'mandates'. I knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that they were highly questionable, that
they were untested, and the technology being used was extremely dangerous. This has
since proved 100% correct. I was completely suspicious of these emergency measures from
the outset. I began treating multiple folk in my clinic with obvious vaccine injuries afflicting
the various systems of their body, especially their cardiovascular, neurological and
reproductive systems and I am personally aware of many sudden deaths, especially amongst
young and healthy people. Nearly all of the injured survivors tell me that their doctors
denied it was the vaccine, trying to relate it to 'anxiety' or saying it is 'all in their heads'.
What a contemptible and insulting state of affairs. The massive and unavoidable 'elephant'
in the room had not been identified by those who should know beyond a shadow of a doubt
what caused these issues in a formerly young, fit and healthy individual.

I started to meet doctors, nurses, paramedics, teachers and other professional people who
had been gainfully employed and had lost their jobs, their careers, their licenses to work
because they would not comply with these experimental medical interventions. Whatever
happened to body autonomy, 'my body, my choice'? These wonderful and highly
experienced health and education professionals were pushed out of their professions
because they stood up for their own beliefs. This is an atrocious situation. Yet the
Government continually bleated on about needing more staff in hospitals and schools etc.
What a travesty. What a blight on our nation and society. I saw the destruction of our
institutions. I have lost faith in our government, medical and education institutions. The




                                                                                                       2
mainstream media were compromised. Highly qualified scientists and health professionals
and people speaking their truth (and against the government narratives) were censored.

I was then informed by my professional association that I had to take at least 2 Covid
vaccines to stay in my own practice. I became completely contemptuous of this situation.
What law did Minister^^^^^ rely upon to try to enforce this measure on my own personal
body? To this day, this has never been satisfied. To this day, I am in total and undeniable
distrust of the government and our so-called health institutions. Let me say, rather than
swaying the population, your government has created massive suspicion and distrust of
government, police, the court system and the medical industrial complex.

How to fix this situation:
•     remove Australia from the WHO, the UN and the WEF. Especially do not sign into the
      WHO's Pandemic Preparedness Treaty.
•     Go back to our Constitution. Remember we are a Federation of states. We are one
      nation under God. It is illegal to create exclusive borders on our continent.
•     Remain independent of foreign bureaucrats and agencies and globalist bodies.
•     Allow freedom of speech and differing opinions.
•     Allow freedom of travel, health autonomy and to assemble together.
•     Invest in Australia for all Australians.
•     Bring back Australian manufacturing and agriculture.
•     Stop massive immigration and help Australians to get back on their feet.
•     Be accountable, speak the truth. Remember the Government is elected to represent the
      people, not to dictate and control the people.
•     Bring back an honest and accountable media, do not fund lies and propaganda.
•     Do not incentivise medical professionals to compromise their professional integrity.
•     Honour those who have gone before us and laid down their lives to fight against tyranny
      and oppression.
•     The immediate priority is to hold a Royal Commission into Australia's response to this
      whole Covid debacle. An inquiry by a few folk with vested interests is a toothless tiger
      and worthless.

Yours sincerely

Michelle Beech, ND




Ph:




                                                                                                 3
