CO VID 19 RESPONSE ENQUIRY SUBMISSION

The Australian Government's response to COVID 19 pandemic was a debacle. National
Cabinet was a joke. State Governments supposedly agreed to a national response and then did
whatever suited them. Arbitrary lockdowns and CO VID restrictions occurred on a State by
State basis. There lacked any national consensus. Democratically elected representatives
handed over responsibility to non-elected health officials. The only sensible Premier was
Gladys Berejiklian who took reasonable measures to contain the pandemic in NSW while
trying to do the least damage to the economy. All the other Premiers ran a fear mongering
campaign of “Lock the State border” and you will be safe from COVID. Dan Andrews got
the medal for the most locked down capital in the world.

State border closures meant people in regional areas could not obtain medical help if their
doctors were in another State. So much for Medicare being a national health system. As
Premier Palaszczuk said on norther NSW residents not allowed into Qld for medical care that
Qld hospitals were for Qld people. I had a friend not being able to access her specialist in
Brisbane on several occasions.

Misinformation was given by health departments that COVID vaccinations would stop people
from getting COVID and spreading it to others. Many people lost their jobs because they
refused to get a vaccination that had not been sufficiently trialled to ensure it was safe. This
caused labour shortages in essential workers.

Elderly people in residential care were denied contact with family and many had to die in
isolation. I have a friend in Qld whose mother with dementia was denied contact with family
for months. Her mother was very distressed and kept asking why she was locked up because
she had done nothing wrong. This was very hard emotionally on the family.

We are now seeing the fallout from extended school lockdowns on our children. Poor
education outcomes and mental health issues. This was unnecessary as children unless they
have another health issue generally don't die or become seriously ill with COVID.

While Job Keeper and payments to businesses affected by CO VID was a good idea it needed
to be better targetted and should have been income tested more thoroughly. States that
crippled their economies with unnecessary extended lockdowns should have been financially
penalised.

This Enquiry that excludes the States is a cop out. A Royal Commission is needed that looks
at the Federal and State Government responses and a better National strategy prepared for the
next pandemic.




12/12/23
