Locking down healthy and innocent people like prisoners was never a part of the pandemic plan
in place prior to 2020.

The Federal Government initiated this experimental technique inspired by Communist China. The
Government was able to do so because of the fear campaign throughout the media.

At what point did the Government decide that it was going to create a nation of people under
house arrest who were healthy and innocent? What was the decision making process? Who is
going to be accountable for this crime against humanity?

On the rollout of the experimental vaccine (that would be found to be ineffective at preventing the
spread of the virus), those who did not wish to participate in the experiment were persecuted by a
government led campaign.
This included losing employment, excluded from restaurants, hotels, hairdressers, to name a few.
The media participated in this persecution and the marginalised group of non-participants were
called derogatory names, and when they tried to protest against the government mandates they
were treated like terrorists and even shot at with rubber bullets in Victoria. In Canberra, microwave
weapons were turned on the good citizens of Australia in front of Parliament House when
thousands turned up to protest in February of 2022.

The Australian Federal Police failed to enforce the commonwealth Law - Commonwealth Criminal
Code Act 1995 Section 268.20 Crime against humanity - persecution

This crime was going on throughout the country. I reported it to the AFP and the only
response I got was a verbal response after I called them to follow up. The response was,
‘If you don’t like the way you are treated, then get jabbed. It is that simple’ Therefore, the
AFP was complicit in the persecution of thousands of Australian citizens, a persecution
not seen in this country ever on this scale before.

The Attorney-General’s Department failed in its portfolio responsibility for driving the
government’s human rights policy agenda.
There are some human rights that are non-negotiable under any circumstances which
include making it mandatory for people to be subjected to medical and scientific
experimentation without their consent.

This is what was happening in this country with people being coerced at threat of
livelihood and homelessness to participate in what Greg Hunt called ‘the largest clinical
trial ever’.
Finally, the TGA is corrupt. They are not taxpayer funded, but industry funded. They have
lied and hidden the truth about widespread vaccine injury to the Australian people.


The points I have made in this brief submission are not trivial, and the only way they might
be properly dealt with is a Royal Commission, therefore I call upon the Government to do
the right thing and instead of whitewashing and hiding the crimes, the truth needs to
come out, and people need to be held accountable, to ensure this will never happen
again.
