14 December 2023

TO: Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet

PO Box 6500

Canberra, ACT 2600

RE: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Officer

I am an everyday citizen of Australia who used to think we lived in a lucky and community minded
country and the governments, (federal, state & local) generally did the right thing for the people.
After the COVID response I now know this is the opposite.

    1.   It was safe and effective. If that where true the covid vaccines wouldn't have more adverse
         reactions & death than any other vaccine previously deployed. The source of this is the DAEN
         database, I'm not putting a link to a data source that the governments & main stream media
         should be open & honest with everyone about. Not a single person on the planet can predict
         long term effects, not that anybody in government was honest about or chose to voice any
         form of reason & caution. So many early indications were there, it was wilfully not looked at
         it seems.
    2.   The vaccines saved lives. If this were true there would be less deaths than pre covid levels.
         This is not true using the ABS all cause mortality figures. Again I'm not putting a link to a
         public database that the governments and media had & have a duty to be open & honest
         with facts & figures to everybody.
    3.   People were not forced to take the vaccines. What a joke of a statement, livelihoods were
         totally changed if people didn't, they couldn't work, family's & friendships broken apart. No
         risks or consequences were shown to anyone, known or unknown. Medical people were paid
         extra money as a carrot to comply and anyone asking reality. & cautious questions were
         threatened with licence suspension. Natural immunity was all but ignored. How can people
         at the TGA be independent when most of their funding comes from the pharmaceutical
         industry? How can the pharmaceutical industry be trustworthy when they are only second to
         the highest paying financial industry in billions of dollars paid to lawsuits and wrong doings
         to people?
    4.   The results are devastating, many more Australian's have died, been physically, mentally or
         financially injured / worse off than the normal & rational path we should have taken. The
         truth always comes out, it's better to rip the bandaid off and get it over with. When people
         find out down the track who did what, do you think people will look at your decisions with
         rational level headedness, has that behaviour been displayed by people in authority
         recently?

Thank you
Concerned citizen
