                                    Australian Government
                                     Department of Health

                    Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation

 Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation Submission to the Commonwealth
                        Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Dear Panel Members,

The Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) is pleased to support the
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry).

Additional input or information into vaccine related issues not covered by this submission can be
provided on request. It should be noted ATAGI cannot disclose specific details of meeting
discussions, nor information regarding decisions of Government or programmatic matters that rest
outside the scope of the ATAGI role.

This is the only submission provided by ATAGI to the Inquiry and has been co-signed by the
current ATAGI Chair and Deputy Chair, as well as former ATAGI Co-Chairs.

ATAGI terms of reference and membership
ATAGI advises the Minister for Health and Aged Care (the Minister) on the administration of
vaccines available in Australia, including those available through National Immunisation Program,
COVID-19 vaccines and other emerging issues, including responding to local transmission of
Japanese Encephalitis and mpox.

ATAGI is also tasked with consulting with relevant organisations to produce the A
    uni iti       it oJ for approval by the National Health and Medical Research Council and in
implementing immunisation policies, procedures and vaccine safety.

ATAGI membership represents a broad range of expertise, including clinical professionals, vaccine
and immunisation researchers, epidemiologists and/or immunisation service delivery expertise, who
possess in-depth knowledge of vaccines, immunisation and/or service delivery (e.g., immunisation
program management).

ATAGI currently comprises 15 standing voting members, including a Chair and Deputy Chair, and
4 ex officio members. Voting members are appointed by the Minister for overlapping terms of four
years. Details of the ATAGI membership structure along with the membership list and relevant
expertise is published on the Department of Health and Aged Care website.

In the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, ATAGI was monitoring COVID-19 vaccine
candidates. In September 2020, the Department of Health and Aged Care (the Department) and
ATAGI established the ATAGI COVID-19 Working Group (the Working Group), a subcommittee
of ATAGI to provide specific advice on COVID-19 vaccines, in recognition of the volume and time
sensitive nature of the work required from the ATAGI to support the Minister and the Department.
The aim of the Working Group was to provide timely advice to the Government on the appropriate,
effective and equitable use of COVID-19 vaccines available in Australia. The membership of the
Working Group included both ATAGI members and external experts and consisted of an Executive
Group, and three subgroups focused on:
   1.      vaccine utilisation and prioritisation
   2.      vaccine distribution and program implementation; and
   3.      vaccine safety, evaluation, monitoring and confidence.

ATAGI remained responsive to the changing nature of the pandemic and in 2022, the structure was
updated, with the Executive Group remaining in place and the three subgroups consolidated into a
Working Group and a Safety Group. Finally, in 2023, the ATAGI COVID-19 Working Groups
ceased operation, and work relating to COVID-19 was absorbed back into the ATAGI ‘business as
usual’ meeting cadence.

ATAGI’s role in the COVID-19 pandemic
During the global COVID-19 pandemic, the Department identified ATAGI as the appropriate
advisory body for development of evidence-based advice on immunisation policies and use of
COVID-19 vaccines in Australia reporting to the Minister. ATAGI’s role was closely linked with
regulatory and programmatic decisions of government that were made with input from a range of
advisory groups including ATAGI, the Advisory Committee for Vaccines and the Scientific and
Industry Technical Advisory Group.

ATAGI advice on COVID-19 vaccines and their use throughout the pandemic has been evidence­
based, reflecting the best available and emerging data relating to vaccines, including safety, efficacy
data from clinical trials, real-world effectiveness data, data on waning of immunity and local and
international epidemiology. Where the rapidly evolving COVID-19 landscape resulted in limited
evidence, ATAGI’s decision making was informed by both the range of technical expertise across
the committee and its networks in the broader scientific community. ATAGI met with experts in
other countries, including equivalent National Immunisation Technical Advisory Groups (NITAGs)
from the United Kingdom, Canada, Israel and the United States, drawing on safety and efficacy data
accumulated from international programs. As such, the advice provided by ATAGI was informed
by numerous data sources and relied on the best information available at the time when making
recommendations to the Minister.

Due to the rapidly evolving environment and changes to vaccine products and availability, there
was a need to communicate updated advice to the public quickly. Previously established pathways
and processes for communicating vaccine advice and any updates, such as through via annual
statements, public consultation, and publication in the Australian Immunisation Handbook (AIH),
were not fit for purpose in this emergency period.

As such, processes were adapted, with advice from ATAGI relating to eligibility and administration
of COVID-19 vaccines provided to the Minister, then published on the health.gov.au website, often
with supporting rational for specific decisions, in order to provide confidence in the vaccine
program and assure the public that decisions were based on expert recommendations. This was a
significant pivot in ATAGI’s role, where previously much of their work had been undertaken in
relative anonymity, despite having been established in 1997. This change is process was useful in
responding to the evolving evidence and epidemiology, and corresponding changes in vaccine
formulations. Having reached a more stable point in terms of the types of vaccines available and
their use, the COVID-19 recommendations have been included in the AIH since 5 October 2023.
Summary of key events
During the CO VID-19 pandemic phase from September 2020 until February 2023, the ATAGI
COVID-19 Working Group and subcommittees held over 312 meetings and published 45 COVID-
19 recommendations. ATAGI also published a significant number of supplementary statements for
the public and immunisation providers and regular updates to provide greater transparency on their
deliberations. Published recommendations varied in content between types of vaccines
recommended for use, eligibility for different types of vaccines, updated advice regarding vaccine
intervals, recommendations for at-risk populations, advice focused on safety matters, and a range of
clinical guidance.

In 2023, six ATAGI COVID-19 statements have been published and 12 ATAGI meetings held,
three of which were face to face.

ATAGI attempted to respond in a flexible and agile way, acknowledging that rapid decisions were
required in the setting of significant uncertainty. ATAGI also understood that decisions made were
likely to significantly shape the national COVID-19 response and public confidence in
immunisation. ATAGI actively consulted with a range of stakeholders including the TGA, the
National Health and Medical Research Council COVID-19 forum and other groups including the
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Advisory Group on COVID-19 and the COVID-19 Disability
Advisory Committee and the AHPPC Aged Care Advisory Group.

ATAGI closely monitored the progress of COVID-19 vaccine programs worldwide, drawing on
NITAG networks and real-world data to rapidly respond to safety issues that occurred during the
rollout. Through this monitoring and engagement, ATAGI was able to identify and respond to
extremely rare, but serious, adverse events following immunisation including thrombosis with
thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS), and myocarditis/pericarditis.

In March 2021, ATAGI published several statements following reports from international
counterparts of TTS following use of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the United Kingdom and Europe.
ATAGI then met urgently following the first reported case in Australia and, over the subsequent
months, met weekly to consider the evolving understanding of the pathogenesis and epidemiology
of TTS and the risk at that time in the context of CO VID-19 infection and transmission. This
included consulting with the TGA and local and international experts and updating the available
advice in line with the latest information.

This advice was developed in the context of significant uncertainty and rapidly emerging evidence.
For example, early advice regarding TTS required in the early stages of the rollout of the
vaccination program and evolving supply landscape, when there were very few cases of CO VID in
the community but the likelihood of ongoing control was uncertain, and where there was significant
variation in the risk estimates of TTS reported in other countries that had deployed the AstraZeneca
vaccine. There was also emerging evidence that early identification of TTS cases improved
outcomes, so ATAGI continued to have close engagement with expert haematologist colleagues, to
provide advice regarding the clinical identification and management of cases, which were collated
and reported on publicly by the TGA, who attend ATAGI meetings in an ex-officio capacity.

Further to their work on TTS, ATAGI received the first indications of possible cases of myocarditis
following COVID-19 vaccines towards the end of June 2021, initially via reports from the USA and
Israel. In response to this, in early July 2021 ATAGI experts, together with cardiologists, met to
consider all available evidence including data collected by the TGA who thoroughly assesses and
undertake continual monitoring of safety, quality and effectiveness of all vaccines.
The ATAGI Guidance on Myocarditis and Pericarditis following COVID-19 vaccination was
developed in consultation with cardiologists and other medical experts and published on
2 August 2021. Myocarditis and pericarditis are rare adverse events associated with COVID-19
vaccines. However, myopericarditis can also occur following CO VID-19, or may be unrelated to
vaccine or COVID-19, with ATAGI advice providing a risk-benefit summary which varies by age
of the vaccine recipient.

More recently ATAGI has provided advice on both new variant COVID-19 vaccines, both the
bivalent and monovalent, with a continued focus on those at risk of severe disease, which includes
age (e.g. 75 years and older) and underlying medical conditions, including significant
immunosuppression. ATAGI remains committed to providing quality, evidence-based advice on the
use of vaccines to support the Minister for Health and Aged Care and the Australian community.

ATAGI would welcome opportunities to provide further input to the Inquiry on the role
and activities undertaken throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as lessons learned to
improve pandemic preparedness and responses in the future.

¥ ours sincerely,




 Prof Nigel Crawford                              Prof Michelle Giles
 Chair                                            Deputy Chair




 Prof Allen Cheng                                 Prof Christopher Blyth
 Former ATAGI Co-Chair                            Former ATAGI Co-Chair


20 December 2023
