                                                                          December 12, 2023



To:      Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,
         PO Box 6500
         Canberra ACT 2600




Re:      Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Terms of Reference



Dear Officer,



                                       SUBMISSION

Introduction


The Department of the Prime Minister and die Cabinet (the Department) have invited
submissions for die Commonwealdi Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry).


This is a submission b


                                                                                      This
submission is audiored by




A. Executive Summary

 1.    Australia as a nation is founded on the rule of law and has a strong common law and
      jurisprudential tradition of protecting the rights and freedoms of individuals. Fundamental
      elements of our Governance structure and laws serve to protect these rights and freedoms,
      including die separation of powers between die judiciary and die executive and die Principle
                                                                                                    1
   of Legality, which ensures that legislation should not infringe fundamental rights and
   freedoms unless the legislation expresses a clear intention to do so and the infringement is
   reasonable.


2. Domestically, Australia has comprehensive statutory frameworks in place intended to
   protect the right of Australian citizens to privacy, as well as die right to equal treatment and
   freedom from discrimination. The High Court has found that die Constitution contains an
   implied freedom of political communication, and there remains some open questions as to
   whetiier other rights, such as freedom of movement, are protected as well (via prohibitions
   on restrictions of trade between States, for example).


3. On die international stage, Australia has asserted itself as among die leaders in becoming a
   party to and advocating for the core international treaties and covenants. Australia was one
   of only eight nations involved in drafting die Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In
   addition, Australia as a nation is a party to die seven core international human rights treaties.
   These are:


       a.          the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR);
       b.          the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR);
       c. the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
            Discrimination (CERD);
       d. the Convention on die Elimination of All Forms ot Discrimination against
            Women (CEDAW);
       e. the Convention against Torture and Odier Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment
            or Punishment (CAT);
       f.          the Convention on die Rights of die Child (CRC); and
       g.          the Convention on the Rights of Persons widi Disabilities (CRPD).


(collectively, the Core Treaties)


4. In addition, Australia is also a party to die UN Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights.


5. Australia also took the additional step of signing the optional protocols to die above
   Treaties, emphasising Australia’s responsibility to uphold them, and increasing Australia’s
   obligations under them.

                                                                                                      2
6. We are concerned that the aforementioned protections did not mitigate an unprecedented
   and serious breach of the human rights of Australian citizens since early 2020, and call into
   the question the practical efficacy of these protections.


B. Did Australia fulfill its obligations under the Core Treaties? If not,
  why?


7. There are a long list of Treaty articles and parts that were breached during Covid-19. In
   most cases, the rationale provided was one of the following:


       a. The Core Treaties allow derogations from obligations under them in certain
           circumstances, including generally in times of public emergency; and


       b. The Core Treaties have (in most cases) not been formally enshrined in Australian
           domestic law, leading to a lack of enforceability.


8. Both of the above rationales are oversimplifications of the true position at law. With regards
   to the former, the Core Treaties are very particular about the circumstances in which these
   derogations can occur (see Part II, Article 4 of the ICCPR, for example), and several treaty
   provisions are themselves non-derogable, meaning die aforementioned exceptions do not
   apply (see Part III, Article 7 of the ICCPR for example). With regards to the latter, several
   rights protections have been enshrined into Australian domestic law, and die Australian
   Human Rights Commission, itself enacted by statute, is tasked widi defending die rights
   obligations of Australian citizens whetiier or not those rights are enshrined in domestic
   statute. It is wortli noting that die AHRC Act itself actually includes several of die
   international human rights conventions which Australia is party to, and which die Act’s
   definition of ‘human rights’ refers to, within it.


9. A full and comprehensive assessment of the rights enshrined under the Core Treaties (and
   in the ICCPR in particular) must occur, vis a vie die measures implemented by Federal,
   State and Territory Governments, for the purpose of assessing whether rights derogations
   were compliant with Australia’s obligations under international human rights law, and for
   the purpose of informing Australia’s approach to such a pandemic in future. To date, no
   such detailed analysis has occurred, and such analysis is owed to the many Australians
   whose fundamental rights and liberties were severely curtailed by the Federal and State
   Government responses to Covid-19.



C. Did the Australian Human Rights Commission discharge its
  Statutory Duties?


10. The Australian Human Rights Commission is a statutory body established by the Australian
   Human Rights Commission Act 1986 (the AHRC Act). In general, the Core Treaties render it
   incumbent on party states to ensure there is a domestic mechanism in place for the
   protection of die human rights protected under diose Treaties. The Australian Human
   Rights Commission is intended to fulfill diat function for Australian citizens.


11. The AHRC Act makes clear the “duties” (Section 10A) and “Functions” (Section 11) of the
   Commission. First, with emphasis added;


      10A Duties of Commission


      (1) It is the duty of the Commission to ensure that the functions of the Commission
      under this or any other Act are performed:
            (a) with regard for:
                 (i) the indivisibility and universality of human rights; and
                 (ii) the principle that every person is free and equal in dignity and rights; and
            (b) efficiently and with die greatest possible benefit to die people of Australia.


12. So, any expression of the functions of die Commission must be maintained widi regard for
   the indivisibility and universality of human rights. Importantiy, the Act defines ‘human
   rights’ as follows;


      Human rights means the rights and freedoms recognised in the Covenant,
      declared by the Declarations or recognised or declared by any relevant
      international instrument.




                                                                                                     4
13. Section 11 ot die Act lists die various functions of the AHRC. Relevantly, tiiese include
   (emphasis added);
              11 Functions of Commission
                       (1) The functions of die Commission are:


                            (d) the functions conferred on the Commission by section 31;
              and
                            (e) to examine enactments, and (when requested to do so by die
              Minister) proposed enactments, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
              enactments or proposed enactments, as the case may be, are, or would be,
              inconsistent with or contrary to any human right, and to report to die
              Minister die results of any such examination; and
                             (f)               to:
                                   (i) inquire into any act or practice that may be
              inconsistent with or contrary to any human right; and
                                   (ii) if the Commission considers it appropriate to do
              so—endeavour, by conciliation, to effect a setdement of the matters that
              gave rise to the inquiry; and
                            (g) to promote an understanding and acceptance, and die public
              discussion, of human rights in Australia; and


                             (j) on its own initiative or when requested by the Minister, to
              report to the Minister as to die laws tiiat should be made by die Parliament, or
              action that should be taken by die Commonwealdi, on matters relating to human
              rights; and
                            (k) on its own initiative or when requested by the Minister, to
              report to the Minister as to the action (if any) that, in the opinion of the
              Commission, needs to be taken by Australia in order to comply wtith the
              provisions of the Covenant, of the Declarations or of any relevant
              international instrument; and


                            (n) to prepare, and to publish in such manner as the
              Commission considers appropriate, guidelines for the avoidance of acts or



                                                                                                 5
                 practices of a kind in respect of which the Commission has a function
                 under paragraph (f); and


                               (p) to do anything incidental or conducive to the performance of
                 any of die preceding functions.


14. So, it is the very statutory function of the AHRC to:


       a.     “inquire into any act or practice that may be inconsistent witli or contrary to any
              human right” (and in particular, witli any covenant or declaration specifically
              included in the Act), and, “effect a settlement of the matters that gave rise to the
              inquiry” (First Function); and


       b. to perform the functions conferred on the AHRC by section 31 which have to do
              with equal opportunity in employment and occupation (Second Function); and


       c.     to examine enactments (ie; laws) for the purpose of ascertaining whether those laws
              are, or would be, inconsistent with or contrary to any human right; and to report to
              the Minister the results of same (Third Function).


15. During Covid-19, the Commission received an unprecedented number of complaints, and
   requests for help, from the Australian public, noting in their responses to those requests that
   due to their inundation, complainants had to wait up to six months for a response. Clearly,
   the Australian public had a perception that the AHRC would assist them, and sought that
   assistance, desperately.


16. Witli respect to their First Function, the AHRC did not make any inquiry into any act or
   practice tiiat was inconsistent witli or contrary to any human right. Part of their stated
   reasoning for this was an interpretation of the words “act” and “practice” in the AHRC Act
   which encompassed measures taken by Federal Government, but not State or Territory
   Governments. Even if this interpretation of the AHRC Act is correct (which is
   questionable), it is not clear why the AHRC did not make any inquiry into the actions of
   Federal Government during the most significant human rights impositions in Australia’s
   history.

                                                                                                     6
17. Witli respect to their Second Function, Section 31 of the AHRC Act states that the AHRC
   is obligated:


        a.   “to examine enactments, and (when requested to do so by the Minister) proposed
             enactments, for the purpose of ascertaining whetiier the enactments or proposed
             enactments, as the case may be, have, or would have, the effect of nullifying or
             impairing equality of opportunity or treatment in employment or occupation, and to
             report to the Minister the results of any such examination”; and


       b. “To inquire into any act or practice (including any systemic practice) that may
             constitute discrimination”.


18. The definition of “discrimination” which applies to Section 31 of die AHRC Act includes
    discrimination on the basis of medical record. It is unclear why die AHRC did not inquire
   into die widespread practice of employers in Australia restricting their employees from
   working on die basis of tiieir medical record (vaccination status).


19. Widi respect to tiieir Third Function, Covid-19 saw die widespread use of public healdi
    orders and pubkc health directives to severely limit die human rights of Australian citizens
   in an unprecedented way. The AHRC is the body in Australia widi the power and duty to
    examine tiiese controversial enactments, and did not do so. If Covid-19 was not reason
    enough to enact tills tunction, what is?


D. Why did the Principle of Legality fail as an effective barricade to
   human rights breaches in Australia during Covid-19?

20. The Principle of Legatity (the Principle) is a rule of statutory construction which states
   that, in die absence of clear indication to die contrary, it is to be presumed when
   interpreting a statute tiiat die statute was not intended to modify or abrogate fundamental
   rights (see Coco v The Queen (1994) 179 CLR 427; [1994] HCA 15 at 437; “Coco”).
   Australia does not have a bill of rights, so die principle has often been said to be a
    fundamental protection in Austratian law.
21. However, in Kassam v Hazzard; Henry v Hazzard [2021] NSWSC 1320, the plaintiffs
    sought to rely on die Principle to challenge die public healdi orders made under die
    auspices of Section 7 of die Public Healdi Act 2010 (NSW), only to find his Honour’s
    conclusion tiiat, because the Public Healdi Act is an Act that deals widi “public
    safety.. .curtailing the free movement of persons including tiieir movement to and at work
    are the very type of restrictions tiiat die PHA clearly authorises. Hence, die principle of
   legality does not justify the reading down of s 7(2) of die PHA to preclude limitations on
    that freedom” [at 9]. This precedent suggests tiiat the Principle will be powerless to dilute
    any Act of Parliament which allows for particular human rights limitations or derogations,
   which in turn calls into question die utility of die Principle.



E. Has the law in Australia on Informed Consent been ignored?


22. Australia has a long legal history of upholding the central medical tenet of fully informed
    and free consent.


23. Various domestic statutes, such as die Guardianship Act 1987 (NSU-^, die Mental Health Act
    2007 No 8 (NSW'J and die Victorian Charter of Human l^tts and Responsibilities Act 2006 (VIC)
    contain definitions of the concept tiiat are generally analogous. The latter, for example, has
    the following definition: “A person must not be.. .subjected to medical or scientific
    experimentation without his or her full, free or informed consent”.


24. This is, again, an example of a human right which Australia has covenanted into via an
   international treaty (Part III, Article 7 of die ICCPR) which has been enshrined into our
    domestic law.


25. The principle is also reflected in the many regulations tiiat inform botii die medical and legal
    professions in this country. For example, die Code of Conduct for doctors states
    unequivocally that “informed consent is a person’s voluntary decision about medical care
    that is made widi knowledge and understanding of die benefits and risks involved”. The
   Australian Law Reform Commission states that “Informed consent refers to consent to
    medical treatment and the requirement to warn of material risk prior to treatment. As part
    of tiieir duty of care, healdi professionals must provide such information as is necessary for
    the patient to give consent to treatment, including information on all material risks of die

                                                                                                     8
   proposed treatment. Failure to do so may lead to civil liability for an adverse outcome, even
   if the treatment itself was not negligent”. There are many other examples.


26. In the common law, there is a well-known positive duty for Doctors to warn patients of
   material risks inherent to any treatment proposed (see Rogers v Whittaker (1992)). A ‘failure to
   warn’ patients of material risk, and the subsequent breach of duty of care at common law, is
   the foundation of most medical negligence cases in Australia, of which there are thousands
   per annum.


27. In Wallace v Kam [2013] HQ4 19, the High Court was clear:


      The common law duty of a medicalpractitioner to a patient is a sin^ comprehensive duty to exercise
      reasonable care and skill in the provision ofprofessional advice and treatment [...[ The component of the
      duty of a medicalpractitioner that ordinarily requires the medicalpractitioner to inform the patient of
      material risks ofphysical injury inherent in a proposed treatment isfounded on the underlying common
      law right of the patient to choose whether or not to undergo a proposed treatment.


28. Given die above, which must be described as a comprehensive and consistent approach in
   Australian law, it is remarkable that so many Australian citizens underwent vaccination
   against Covidl9, a provisionally approved medical treatment, in circumstances where they:


       a.             Did not fully understand the material risks associated with that treatment; and
       b. Were subjected to significant social and economic pressures to undergo tiiat
            treatment.


29. It is not unreasonable to argue that nobody in Australia was capable of providing fully
   informed and free consent to vaccination against Covid-19, given the pressure being exerted
   daily by employers, media and politicians, and the inaccurate and incomplete information
   being made available to them.


30. This poses the question of whetiier the law on informed consent in Australia has been
   bypassed or ignored, and if so, how and why this was allowed to occur.



F. Is the Separation of Powers functioning appropriately in Australia?
                                                                                                                9
31. The Australian Constitution distributes power to govern between the Parliament, Executive
   and die Judiciary. With respect to the judiciary, this is an important separation, because die
   judiciary is often tasked with assessing die legality and correctness of Government laws and
   decisions. Indeed, this is one of die primary functions of die judiciary.


32. On 27 September 2021, a decision in die matter of Jennifer Kimber v Sapphire Coast
   Community Aged Care Ltd (C2021/2676) was handed down by a full bench of die Fair
   Work Commission.


33. That decision featured a dissenting judgment by Deputy President Tyndall Dean, which was
   highly critical of die approach taken by Governments in Australia to Covid-19. It is, to date,
   the only decision by a member of any Tribunal or Court in Australia diat has been critical of
   the measures taken by Government in response to Covid-19.


34. This may be partiy due to the way die Deputy President was punished for her judgment.
   President Justice Iain Ross immediately barred die Deputy President from appeal cases. The
   President told die Deputy President tiiat her conduct constituted “misuse of her statutory
   office” and diat she had breached “basic principles of quasi-judicial decision-making
   including criticising government policy and doing so in highly inflammatory terms”. She was
   forced to undergo professional conduct training.


35. Of course, members of die Fair Work Commission, as well as odier Tribunals and Courts in
   Australia, are appointed by the Government. The removal of an appointee from die Fair
   Work Commission can only be done tiirough a vote by Parliament.


36. By contrast, die Judge who heard perhaps die most famous case involving the assessment of
   Government measures against Covid-19, and who essentially endorsed the actions of
   Government as lawful and reasonable, has recentiy been elevated to die High Court.


37. It is not unreasonable to wonder whether such elevation would have occurred if tiiat Judge
   was to have made a different decision in that case, and whether diat kind of potential
   detriment may have influenced, consciously or subconsciously, his decision. High Court



                                                                                                10
    judges, of course, are appointed by the Governor-General, who is part of the Parliament
    and die Executive.


38. The question thus must be asked: is it appropriate tiiat judicial officers be appointed and
   promoted by members of Parliament and the Executive given tliey are often tasked with
    critiquing the decisions of those members?



G. Are our discrimination and privacy laws adequate to protect people
   against discrimination on the basis of their medical status, and to
   protect people’s private medical information?


39. Federal and State discrimination statutes focus on ‘protected attributes’, including race, sex,
   pregnancy, marital status, family responsibilities, breastfeeding, age, disability, sexual
    orientation, gender identity or intersex status. These protected attributes do not include
   medical status or record, despite the AFIRC Act including ‘medical record’ within its
    definition of ‘discrimination’ (but not ‘unlawful discrimination’, which has a different
    definition).


40. This means tiiat, in brief, somebody who has been discriminated against in Australia on the
   basis of tiieir medical record or status cannot proceed to the Federal Court accordingly. The
    only means of action available to tiiat person is, if the discrimination occurred in the context
    of tiieir employment, to complain to the AHRC pursuant to Section 31 of the AHRC Act,
    and to hope tiiat the AHRC chooses to inquire into and conciliate the issue. This is not very
    effective protection. Do we need a more explicit protection against this form of
    discrimination?


41. Witli respect to Privacy, Covid-19 saw employers intrude violently into the private medical
   histories and records of tiieir employees, often witli no regard for the Australian Privacy
   Principles, enshrined in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) which provide stringent restrictions and
    conditions on the collection and storage of tliis information. In almost all cases, employers
    said tiiat the collection of employees’ vaccination status was lawful and reasonable to ensure
   that the employee could safely perform the inherent requirements of tiieir job — but this is
    an oversimplification of a law which is supposed to be applied in exceptional circumstances
     only, based on die individual circumstances of each employee. Did employers generally
     breach Federal and State privacy laws in Australia during Covid-19, and if so, how and why
     was this allowed to happen, and how can it be avoided in future?


12 December 2023

Sincerely,
