•   What the point of this inquiry is if the 'unilateral" actions of State and Territory governments are
    not taken into account? They were highly active during the whole thing and their actions need to
    be thoroughly examined. To not involve them in this inquiry is ludicrous, not in the public interest
    and a complete waste (again) of taxpayers' money.

•   In addition, the actions of many police were at times abhorrent. Will this be investigated? The
    overreach and authoritarian attitude of many police was something to be ashamed of and the
    police now have built a lot of mistrust within their communities. As have the government and so
    called "medical experts".

•   Why did the then Prime Minister state publicly that the covid (experimental) injections were not
    compulsory but then States and Territories made life almost impossible for people unless they
    complied? How is a person to decide between feeding their children and keeping a roof over their
    heads versus rolling the dice in an experiment? And now we all know the injections did not work.
    They did not prevent infection OR transmission. I hope the inquiry considers that! A lot of harm
    has been done to people who complied because they thought it was "the right thing to do" and
    nobody is taking responsibility.

•   How was the government complicit in "passing the buck" to the States/Territories who then
    passed it on to employers?

•   The Public Health messaging was ridiculous. Why did these messengers fail to deliver any
    information regarding what people could do personally to boost their immune systems? Had
    people been given something they had power to do for themselves, much of the fear could have
    been avoided. I personally know many people who simply do not watch msm any more. They
    had a neckful of it and switched the tv off.

•   In NSW alone the "health rules" were changed 59 times between 28/6/21 and 11/10/21! How
    was anybody supposed to keep up with that? NSW Health Minister Brad Hazzard did not even
    seem familiar with his own rules at times (that or he deliberately flouted them.... when others
    were being arrested for sitting on a park bench).

•   How did government and police actions relate to our rights under the Australian Constitution?
    Nobody I know received a Public Health Order. And yet people were forced to die alone in
    hospital, denied the comfort of the presence of healthy loved ones who only wanted to be there
    for them.

•   Why did the TGA not conduct its own research? Instead, relying on pharmaceutical company
    sponsored U.S. authorities for their information and simply repeating it without checking?

•   What happened to "fully informed consent" as advocated in the Australian Immunisation
    Guidelines? I do not know of one single person who agreed to this injection who was given a list
    of possible side effects. From A - Z. It is pages and pages long.

•   Why were doctors threatened and silenced when they tried to express concerns about the
    vaccines? What happened to the doctor/patient confidentiality relationship? (AHPRA should be
    investigated as well.)

•   Why did the government not listen to the likes of Professor Thomas Borody? It turns out he was
    on target but they ignored him completely. Science became a narrative, not a search for the facts
    or a debate over the evidence.
•   Why such a kneejerk reaction to a perceived emergency which completely ignored proper
    scientific debate in favour of an unproven, untested medical experiment (Health Minister Greg
    Hunt said publicly that we were participating in the "largest clinical trial ever" - or words to that
    effect? People who chose not to participate were labelled as dangerous^H^I selfish,
          etc and basically ostracised from society. Those people are the only ones left who could be
    considered a control group in this experiment. How is their mental health?

•   The financial payouts provided by the government were ridiculous to the point that some people
    received more money from the taxpayer for NOT working than they did for working even part
    time. That just did not and does not make sense and it only put Australia into a huge financial
    hole from which we will struggle to escape. Small businesses were screaming for staff who
    refused to work because of the welfare they were receiving. I personally know one of these small
    businesses and the damage to that business was horrendous because the government was paying
    staff more to stay home than for working. Uni students were in clover financially - they had
    never seen so much money for doing absolutely nothing except assist in the bankrupting of
    Australia.

•   Where was the regard for sensible, measured spending of taxpayers' money? Our government
    bankrupted us and we may never recover.

•   Why were the details of the contracts signed by the government on OUR behalf with the suppliers
    of the experimental injections kept hidden from the very people who were paying forthem?
    What happened to transparency? Integrity? Honesty?

•   Why was the Pfizer list of side effects released under Court Order in the United States (which
    Pfizer wanted kept hidden for 75 years) NOT made readily available to the Australian public? It is
    still difficult to find.

•   Why did the media right across the country (and indeed worldwide) use the very same catch
    phrases ALL THE TIME? Why did they not properly investigate and interview voices from the
    "other" side of the issue? Why did the media not report truthfully the massive protests held in
    Canberra? Who silenced them? Was there some kind of sonic equipment used against the
    protesters? I know people who were there and suffered some nasty effects such as unexplained
    burns and headaches.

•   Why has QANTAS seen fit NOT to repay Australian taxpayers the exorbitant financial aid given to
    the airline in the name of covid? How many other big companies got away with this? I know
    small businesses received little or nothing.

•   The past four years have been disastrous for Australia. We have been divided, coerced,
    threatened and psychologically attacked for simply daring to question or for having a different
    viewpoint. People have lost businesses, jobs, homes, marriages, families, mental health, friends
    and faith in their elected representatives. Young people have given up in despair and have lost
    hope in the world to the point that many have taken their own lives who otherwise most probably
    would not have. The young ones need social interaction and our governments (Federal AND
    State) have been instrumental in denying them that. I believe the Federal government was
    responsible for getting State governments to "do their dirty work" and it is unforgiveable. They
    were accessories and are culpable. Not to thoroughly investigate the State/Territorial
    governments' role in the whole debacle is negligent at the very least.

•   I would also refer the inquiry to whistle blower Barry Young from New Zealand who has released
    some damning evidence on the safety of this massive experiment. For his troubles, Barry has
    been charged, imprisoned and silenced when he should be lauded for exposing the criminal
    silence of the New Zealand government. Since when did exposing truth become a crime?
       (Perhaps when you are exposing the government?) Ref: https://kirschsubstack.com/medicare-
       death-data-proves-the-covid-vaccines-are-killing-people In Australia we are seeing an
       extraordinary number of excess deaths and yet the government refuses to investigate them.
       Why?

   •   Why were masks relentlessly pushed and yet people were not told that for a mask to remain
       sterile or have any chance of being effective, it should not be touched once you put it on until you
       take it off? Occupational Health and Safety rules used to       state that a mask should not be worn
       for more than 20 minutes and then it should be discarded for a new one. Somehow that
       information got "lost" after 2021. I watched NSW Premier Berejiklian at a press conference once
       taking a mask off and placing it on the floor behind her to step forward and speak, then picking it
       up of the floor and putting it back on straight after. She did this more than once in the same
       broadcast. What? Whether or not masking was actually effective needs to be investigated as this
       was a huge imposition on the population. It was very distressing for people who have hearing
       issues and rely heavily on lip reading as they could not see faces. Those people were even more
       isolated than the rest of us and many of them were quite depressed, particularly those living
       alone. Sadly, I see this now repeating itself with people literally gasping for breath behind their
       face masks in shopping centres. (Mostly elderly people who have been frightened into
       compliance and already have health issues which are only exacerbated by them breathing in their
       own waste carbon dioxide.) I watched a woman cross the street alone wearing a face mask only
       yesterday. She entered the cafe where I was sitting, pulled up a chair close by and took off the
       face mask! It is patently obvious people are clueless. Something needs to be done about this kind
       of

   •   Please also take into account the actions and words of Craig Kelly, M.P. who tried desperately to
       get some scientific debate going but was ridiculed, ostracised and silenced for HIS troubles. It
       turns out Mr. Kelly had valuable information but parliament seemed to develop a herd mentality
       which had nothing to do with the good (or the will) of the people. Their number one priority was
       pushing a vaccine that we were told virtually nothing about and urging people to use face masks.

I believe the issues I have brought up are merely the tip of a very big iceberg and I am concerned that this
inquiry is not going to be thorough enough to achieve much but I remain hopeful that transparency and
truth will prevail. Australia is an intelligent country and our health system is comprehensive but now the
proposal to allow the WHO to dictate to us what we do in the future as a response to such a similar event
is quite simply terrifying. We are capable of taking care of our own health system and the WHO does not
have clean hands either in this matter and I believe to trust them would be a huge mistake.

My personal belief is that government needs to get out of our lives and let us make our own decisions. If
there is a real health issue, people will respond intelligently.

Government also needs to stop trying to be our "sole source of information" and allow discussion and
debate. Doctors should not be censored for being doctors and they should not be threatened for trying
to do what is best for their patients.
