Optimising the use of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) in future pandemic response: Applying
evidence from the COVID-19 response

Authors: Professor Kamalini Lokuge, OAM, HOSM, Professor Katie Glass, Professor Emily Banks AM
Australian National University

Professor Kamalini Lokuge is a public health physician and epidemiologist, and has >25 years experience in a
range of humanitarian emergencies, including several high-risk pathogen outbreaks. This expertise informed her
contribution to Australia's SARS CoV2 (COVID-19) response in the areas of surveillance, outbreak response and
community engagement. She advised State and Federal governments on their response to COVID-19, and was a
founding member of Australia's National COVID-19 Health and Research Advisory Committee, from its inception
in April 2020, to September 2021. In that role she chaired the working groups that produced advice to the
Commonwealth Chief Health Officer on preventing resurgence, outbreak control and lockdowns. Professor Katie
Glass has over 20 years of experience in mathematical modelling of infectious diseases, including >40 papers and
reports on pandemic planning. Professor Emily Banks is an epidemiologist and public health physician with
expertise on applying large-scale evidence to improving population health.

Summary of key points
The acute phase of the COVID-19 global pandemic was an unprecedented health event in modern times and had
wide-ranging impacts across all aspects of human society. Another pandemic is inevitable, and it is critical that
the lessons learnt from COVID-19 are understood and integrated into response systems for future pandemics,
recognising that:
•   During a future pandemic, even under optimal conditions, there is likely to be a delay of several months
    before pharmaceutical interventions (vaccines, antivirals etc) are readily available.
•   During this period, as occurred during the initial phases of the COVID-19 pandemic, the only measures
    available to control transmission will be non-specific non-pharmaceutical interventions and public health
    measures (NPIs) such as surveillance, outbreak response, masks, social distancing and movement
    restrictions.
•   Despite their critical importance, there is little systematic thought being applied to the role of NPIs in future
    pandemics, informed by their use during COVID-19.
•   Underpinning the effectiveness of all response measures (both pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical) is
    the social contract between governments and the community. Little ongoing investment is being made in
    strengthening this social contract, in particular with structurally disadvantaged communities.
•   This submission provides expert guidance on a pathway for addressing these gaps in knowledge and systems
    prior to the next pandemic.

The role and timing of NPIs; For most countries, the COVID-19 pandemic represented the first use in modern
times of large-scale population-based NPIs to control transmission of an infectious disease. Measures such as
control of social mixing and borders and widespread use of hygiene measures such as masks were critical in the
early phases of the pandemic in preventing incursion and amplification of transmission. Surveillance, contact
tracing, isolation and quarantine measures were also critical in this period to control transmission once SARS
CoV-2 had been introduced.
Given the advent of novel technologies such as mRNA vaccines, the period from pathogen isolation to vaccine
development has reduced. COVID-19 also demonstrated that the vaccine development and approval process can
be markedly shortened without detrimental impacts on product safety. However, even under optimal
conditions, it is likely a vaccine will take at least 3 months to develop and obtain approval1. There is then likely to
be a further lag of several months, perhaps even years for developing countries, before widespread vaccine
and/or antiviral availability. During this period, the only measures available to control transmission will be non­
specific NPI's.

There is little systematic thought being applied to the role of NPI's in future pandemics. Much of the current
discussion and planning related to future response focuses on technologies, in particular rapid development of

                                                                                                                        1
vaccines and antivirals to novel pathogens capable of causing a pandemic. Some attention is also being applied
to ensuring such a targeted treatment can be produced at the required scale and distributed rapidly, at least for
developed nations. However, understanding the role NPI's played in COVID-19 and how this will translate to
future response has received much less focus and investment.

There is a critical gap in pandemic preparedness that needs to be addressed by considering possible future
pandemic scenarios, and for each scenario, identifying effective NPI strategies for achieving the goals of disease
control. This must be informed by the knowledge and experience of NPIs during the COVID-19 response. A broad
overview of this approach is outline below.

The overarching goals of pandemic control measures during COVID-19, likely to be unchanged during future
pandemics, were to:
-   Maintain essential societal functions (health care, food production and distribution, other essential services)
-   Minimise mortality and morbidity
-   Limit societal and economic harms
NPI use in the initial phase of COVID-19: Two differing strategies were adopted in the early (pre-vaccine/
antiviral) phase of the pandemic by countries globally to achieve these goals. These are described in broad terms
below, along with the pre-requisites for implementation of these strategies.

 Strategy                         Pre-requisites for effective implementation                 Benefits and costs
 Localised/context specific       Disease characteristics: transmissibility such that R<1     Benefits: Allowed social mixing
 elimination: aim for             when essential social mixing occurs (i.e. person-to-        to return to almost normal
 complete transmission            person interaction required for maintaining essential       levels within the borders of the
 control within a defined area    services)                                                   target area once elimination
 by reducing social mixing to a                                                               achieved.
 level that enabled the           Response characteristics: Adequate coverage of
 reproduction number to be        testing, contact tracing and border management              Costs: significant burden on
 brought below 1, control         measures                                                    community, in particular most
 outbreaks through active                                                                     disadvantaged, if and until
 case detection and               Societal characteristics: willingness and capacity to       elimination achieved
 management, and                  comply with stringent movement restrictions, stay-at-
 prevent/reduce incursions        home orders, undertake isolation and quarantine
 through border management
 Controlled suppression:          Disease characteristics: transmissibility such that R can   Benefits: Less stringent societal
 reduce transmission through      be maintained at a level where morbidity and                control measures
 non-pharmaceutical               mortality does not overwhelm essential services.
 interventions to a level that                                                                Costs: increased disease
 enables essential services       Response characteristics: Adequate coverage of              burden and burden on
 (e.g. health care) to meet       testing, contact tracing and border management              essential services, in particular
 demand, despite ongoing          measures                                                    health care; additional, more
 transmission                                                                                 stringent lockdowns are still
                                  Societal characteristics: willingness and capacity to       likely to be required if/when
                                  comply with non-pharmaceutical interventions when           essential services become
                                  essential services are overwhelmed, and accept a            overwhelmed.
                                  sustained increase in mortality and morbidity overall.
We can apply the evidence generated by the use of NPIs during COVID-19 based on the above strategies to
inform the optimal approach to NPI use in future pandemics. This is needed not only in regards to a possible
pandemic similar in nature to COVID-19, but perhaps even more importantly, for future pandemic scenarios
where the characteristics of the pathogen differ.

Possible future pandemic scenarios:
 Pandemic scenario                Strategies/NPI     Pre-requisites for effective NPI implementation
 (relative to early phase of      interventions
 COVID-19)
 Increased morbidity and          Elimination        Similar to COVID
 mortality, similar               Controlled         Less effective than for COVID-19 as limited NPI measures will have
 transmissibility.                suppression        even less impact on morbidity and mortality levels, and therefore
                                                                                                                                  2
                                                   more need for frequent lockdowns due to essential services being
                                                   overwhelmed.
    Increased transmissibility in   Elimination    To be effective, R would still need to be able to be brought below 1
    all groups, similar morbidity                  with available measures, and outbreak response able to eliminate
    and mortality                                  transmission chains. If this is not possible, measures will not result in
                                                   elimination. Therefore, measures would need to be implemented
                                                   more effectively than during early phase of COVID-19.
                                    Controlled     Less effective than for COVID-19 as limited NPI measures will have
                                    suppression    less impact on absolute levels of morbidity and mortality, and
                                                   therefore mean more need for frequent lockdowns due to essential
                                                   services being overwhelmed (if coverage of essential services remains
                                                   same).

Other important scenarios that need to be considered with a similar approach are:
- Increased mortality in very young and old, similar transmissibility.
- Increased mortality in young and healthy, similar transmissibility.
- Increased transmissibility in children, similar mortality
- Increased transmissibility in all groups, similar morbidity and mortality
Utilising tools used in work on NPIs during COVID-19, namely public health analysis and mathematical modelling,
to apply the evidence outlined in the former table above, would generate critical evidence on the likely impact
of NPIs under the different pandemic scenarios detailed in the latter table.

Genuinely effective engagement with communities; Underpinning the effectiveness of all response measures
(both pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical) are societal characteristics that support willingness and capacity
to comply with these measures. This is dependent on the strength of the social contract that governments have
with the community, which in turn is based on the long-term reciprocity individuals experience from their
relationship with government in their daily lives.
As COVID-19 demonstrated, this is particularly challenging for structurally disadvantaged and marginalised
groups, whose experience differs from the general community. However, as seen in some aspects of the latter
response to COVID-19 (e.g. vaccination in these sub-groups), effective engagement can be achieved within these
groups by transferring authority and autonomy to design and deliver interventions to those who have
established trust and reciprocity prior to the pandemic. The NCHRAC report on preventing resurgence2 which
Professor Lokuge chaired identified this critical need prior to COVID-19 resurgence in Australia, but action was
not taken until after widespread transmission recurred. Subsequent to the acute phase of COVID-19 passing, any
steps that were taken to transfer authority have largely been rescinded. This is a missed opportunity not only to
prepare for the next pandemic, but to strengthen non-pandemic services for structurally disadvantaged groups.
Rather than being rescinded, these measures need to be integrated into Governments' business as usual.

Implications

This evidence indicates the need for:
• Greater investment in research and implementation regarding the role of NPIs for control of future
    pandemics
•     Establishment and maintenance of measures to support community partnerships, in particular the transfer
      of authority and autonomy to design and deliver interventions to those who have established trust and
      reciprocity prior to emergencies and pandemics.

Selected References

       1.   Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Delivering Pandemic Vaccines in 100 Days; what will it
            take? (2022) https://100days.cepi.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/CEPI-100-Days-Report-Digital-
            Version 29-ll-22.pdf
       2.   National COVID-19 Health and Research Advisory Committee, Risks of resurgence of COVID-19 in
            Australia, Report for the Chief Medical Officer, Commonwealth of Australia, May 2020.


                                                                                                                               3
