   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth




Preamble



The following represents my personal impressions of the areas of the Australian Government

pandemic response that require attention for the improvement of a future pandemic

response. This submission remains agnostic to the question of "success" or otherwise of the

response. However it can be assumed that the points made imply that policy settings in the

given areas could be optimised. In the interests of brevity this discussion is not exhaustive

and I am available at the request of the inquiry panel to provide further discourse on the

pandemic response.



Overall Decision Making



The Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) was successful in bringing

together the most experienced public health officials in Australia to make policy for the

Australian pandemic response. The formal and informal processes established over several

decades facilitated a unified and cohesive decision-making unit, chaired by the Chief Medical

Officer of Australia. Trust and interpersonal relationships were key enablers. It is my view that

the overall structure and function of the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee

should be retained.



Nonetheless the decision-making suffered from a series of pathologies in need of attention

for future response.



The aspects of the decision-making structure that were successful were:

   -   Use of a structure (the AHPPC) that had been deployed many times for smaller scale

       public health emergencies, ensuring that systems and processes could be stood up

       quickly at the start of the pandemic

   -   A strong set of relationships between Chief Health Officers, the Chief Medical Officer

       of Australia and the Office of Health Protection that meant that interpersonal conflict

       seldom became an issue




                                                                                                    1
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



    -   Adopting a general principle of not creating new structures to manage the pandemic

        response eg. using the existing structure with co-opting of experienced subject matter

        experts                                                             to the AHPPC12



The aspects of decision-making that require attention are:

    -   Decision making was not recursive or iterative. There was no dedicated forward

        planning group that could adopt a non-operational, horizon-scanning position to

        anticipate the 'next questions' generated by pandemic policy. The absence of this

        capability, used commonly in military operations, meant that senior officials had no

        time to anticipate the consequences of their decisions, discuss the evolution of the

        pandemic and change policy accordingly. There are innumerable examples of how this

        could be improved, but the most notable was the persistence of 2020-era isolation and

        testing policies into the Omicron-era which effectively led to nationwide workforce and

        testing shortages and could have been addressed through a relaxation of isolation

        requirements and a shift from PCR to rapid-antigen testing.

    -   Decisions were not evaluated against agreed ethical frameworks. Whilst decisions

        were made with the best intent, there was a notable absence of agreed ethical

        framework to discuss and evaluate decisions. This allowed the creation of a 'disease­

        control at all costs' policy path dependence, which, whilst suited to the first wave, was

        poorly suited to the vaccine-era. The ethical framework created in August 2021 should

        be adopted and made widely known across the Whole Of Government.1
                                                                        2
                                                                        3

    -   Poor transition to an emergency footing of committees other than AHPPC. Daughter

        committees of the AHPPC (eg. Communicable Diseases Network of Australia and




1 The UK had a different model with several larger committees, potentially compromising the ability to achieve
rapid consensus amongst experts were it to be applied to the Australian context.
2 Evidence provided to the Australian Government Senate inquiry suggested that an insufficient range of
expertise was present on the Government advisory committees. I do not believe this to be the case and robust
debate prior to consensus on a range of issues was the norm rather than a 'group think' effect
3 The NHMRC Decision-Making for Pandemics: An ethics framework is a useful starting point, but this should
be a living document and is less concise than previous examples including Upshur and colleagues "Stand on
Guard For Thee". It is questionable whether such a document should sit with the NHMRC, and consideration
should be given to involving the Australian Human Rights Commission in co-owning and reviewing such a
document



                                                                                                             2
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



        Infection Control Expert Group) did not have the same institutionalised capacity as

        AHPPC to engage in emergency decision making, leading to delays in some instances4

    -   No ability to commission policy-relevant research. The AHPPC had no direct ability

        to drive a research agenda to answer the key public health and clinical questions that

        were required to iterate pandemic policy. The Department of Health also failed to

        provide direction or leadership in this regard. Papers that were published from within

        the Office of Health Protection were not designed to answer policy-relevant,

        immediate questions.

    -   Individual and institutional fatigue.         Early fatigue amongst decision makers led to

        exhaustion and potential for poor decision making.                 Fatigue occurs very early in

        disaster response (within days to weeks rather than months). It is likely that fatigue

        contributed to the deterioration in decision-making quality over the course of the

        pandemic, particularly a tendency toward group-think, path-dependence and a failure

        to assess and consider alternative courses of action. Examples include, but are not

        limited to, vaccine procurement and distribution decision-making; persistence of PCR-

        based     testing    regimens;     persistence     of   2020-era     isolation   and    quarantine

        recommendations.



Potential remedies include:5

    -   Reflection on whether the Department of Health is the optimal agency to coordinate

        a pandemic response or whether such responsibility should rest with the National

        Emergency Management Agency and Home Affairs

    -   Ensuring that emergency management principles are known and adopted by the

        Departments of Health across all jurisdictions, including the rotation of senior officials

        during a crisis to allow key individuals sufficient rest and to build capacity and

        capability amongst 2ICs and 3ICs

    -   A regular program of pandemic exercising including minor (annual) and major (3-5

        yearly) whole of government exercises



4 From the CDNA perspective this was mitigated by
                                                      Two key examples include - failure of CDNA to ratify
enhanced data collection for Health Care Worker infection for at least six months post-pandemic onset and the
failure of ICEG to effectively manage the controversies around transmission dynamics and route of infection
5 See section below on Research for a detailed discussion on improvements to research



                                                                                                            3
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



    -   More detailed operational guidelines on how Government departments should

        structure their response to the pandemic ie.          Guidance that would specify the

        immediate formation of a planning group of individuals familiar with our Health

        Protection architecture (ie. Former or current officials) tasked with testing policy

        against ethical frameworks



Federal and State Roles in a Pandemic



Although the notable discordance between State and Federal governments was clear to the

public in the second half of 2020, the issue arose almost immediately with divergent policy on

quarantining of school and university students returning from China in January of 2020.



Policy discord within the Federation has notable disadvantages that cannot be excused by

framing each jurisdiction as having individual or specific needs during the pandemic that vary

substantially from those as a nation. These include

    -       Confusing the Australian public at a time when clarity in essential

    -   Diminution of the rights conferred by Australian citizenship including the ability for a

        jurisdictional government to discriminate based on place of residence in Australia

    -       Impairing co-operation in the event of maldistribution of disease impact



As a hypothetical example, whilst a ventilator sharing policy was formulated by myself and

endorsed by Directors-General of Health in the first half of 2020, it is almost impossible to

conceive that such a strategy could have been effectively implemented in the political climate

that rapidly took hold. In the event of a pandemic where the mortality is increased and the

age distribution skewed to working-age adults or younger Australians, the resultant of federal-

state tensions will be loss of life.



After lengthy personal reflection on this issue, I believe only one solution is possible to avoid

this situation in the future. I strongly encourage the Inquiry to recommend amendment of

the Biosecurity Act to ensure that all disease control powers are vested in the federal

government during a national Biosecurity Emergency.            In such a scenario, the decision­

making capacity of the AHPPC will be optimised by allowing Chief Health Officers freedom to


                                                                                                    4
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



consider optimal nationwide disease-control policies. To take state border closures as the

most contentious example, it is possible to imagine that state border controls could still be a

policy recommendation of the Federal Government via the AHPPC, however state

governments would be tasked with implementation only and not be able to exercise their own

powers nor independently implement their own policy.



Research



In comparison to other similar nations, particularly the United Kingdom, the research output

of Australian academic institutions during COVID-19 was poorly coordinated, delayed, and

generally failed to provide timely, policy relevant research data.



The UK, by contrast, was able to provide ground-breaking research including, but not limited
to, the RECOVERY trial. The paper by three leading Australian researchers,^^^^^^^^^^|

^^^(outline the limitations and potential future model in their paper and I endorse their

reflections.6



The APPRISE project which was dedicated to forming networks that would answer the key

questions during the first 100 days of a pandemic could not then be considered a success

against that measure. However, the central issue is not with the APPRISE project itself, but

with the Department of Health and the National Health and Medical Research Council, which

failed to adapt to the emergency. The use of existing grant application and funding models,

albeit expedited, was poorly suited to answering pandemic policy questions and those

institutions going forward must be considerably more directive in setting and driving a rapid

research agenda.



Notable successes and models to follow include the research outputs from the Australian and

New Zealand Intensive Care Society, which was able to provide data on intensive care resource

availability within the first two months of the pandemic that considerably influenced the




6 Bowen AC, Tong SY, Davis JS. Australia needs a prioritised national research strategy for clinical trials in a
pandemic: lessons learned from COVID-19. Med J Aust. 2021 Jul;215(2):56-58



                                                                                                                   5
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



trajectory of policy, including arguably the decision to close the international borders.

Another example included the rapid serosurvey of surgery patients to enable the re­

commencement of elective surgery after its pause during the first wave.7



Australia must have a direct link between the questions of policy makers and the answers

derived from real time research. This role should be the function of the Centres for Disease

Control (see final section for further discussion).



Vaccine Mandates



Vaccine mandates should be broadly defined as any policy that discriminates between a

vaccinated and unvaccinated individual during a pandemic.



The imposition of vaccine mandates had two main drivers:

    1. The early evidence that vaccination decreased transmissibility of the virus following

         infection with wild-type and alpha variants.

    2. The need to reduce demand of health services created if large proportions of the

         population remained unvaccinated.



It is not clear the extent to which mandates drove vaccine uptake. The highest vaccination

rates occurred during the Delta outbreak in Victoria and New South Wales, strongly suggesting

a correlation between an individual's perception of their own vulnerability to disease and

being vaccinated. During the same period and despite availability of the vaccine in other

states rate of uptake was significantly lower, suggesting that personal vulnerability is a

stronger driver than mandates.



It is probable that mandates enabled less affected states to achieve higher vaccination rates

by the time they had their Omicron waves. On the other hand the personal cost to individuals

who did not receive the COVID-19 vaccination was substantial and not limited to the pandemic




7 Notably, this project was directed at the request of and funded by the Office of Health Protection, driven by a
Deputy Chief Medical Officer and institutions were directly co-opted to participate without a grants process.



                                                                                                                6
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



period. Australians who chose not to be vaccinated suffered life changing events including

job loss, for which there was limited or no recourse to typical statutory authorities such as Fair

Work Australia.     Where cases were brought to Fair Work or Industrial Relations and Courts,

Commissioners and Judges generally avoided considering the justification for termination and

deferred entirely to the medical advice of the time8.           Cases brought by individuals against

theiremployerwere ongoing into late 2022 and included dismissal due to non-adherence with

4th vaccine mandates.9



The political discussion around mandates falsely conflated Australians who were "anti­

mandate" with "anti-vaccination". If not yet proven, it is at least highly plausible that this led

to more Australians than would otherwise have been the case being pushed to the margins of

public health discourse and into the arms of true conspiracy theorists and anti-vax influencers.



The Federal Government position that individual employers would manage mandates and that

it was not a role of Government was an incorrect decision. This allowed employers discretion

to impose mandates beyond the first two doses of COVID-19 vaccine, with some agencies

including State Government emergency services imposing up to fourth dose mandates in the

absence of any evidence and indeed ignoring evidence that any benefit in transmission

reduction was overcome by the increased transmissibility of the Delta and subsequent

variants.



The mandate decision was one of the clearest examples of a failure to use the principles of

verifiability, responsiveness and proportionality in assessment of pandemic policy.



On balance, mandating of vaccination during a pandemic should be subject to the following

considerations:



    1.   It must only ever be used as a 'last resort' policy where vaccination uptake remains

         low despite education and the persistence of low vaccination rates is likely to cause




8 Personal Communication. Panel discussion. Australian Bar Association Annual Conference 2022
9 Davis, Allan and Ors v State of Queensland



                                                                                                    7
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



         significant harm to the community, where that harm has been reliably quantified and

         communicated to the community.

    2.   Vaccine mandates can only be initiated or ceased by the Federal Government under

         the Biosecurity Act.        No other legislative instrument can be used to discriminate

         against an individual based on their vaccine status.

    3.   The duration of mandates must be time limited and justification for their continued

         imposition subject to publication of the research upon which the decision is based.10




Cross-border Access to Healthcare



Federal Government funding of state health systems should be made contingent on the ability

for any Australian to access healthcare anywhere in Australia under any circumstances,

including during a pandemic. In particular, State Governments must never be permitted to

deny access to healthcare to any Australian citizen for the purposes of communicable

disease control. The definition of denial of access includes inability to access care at the most

proximate or most familiar healthcare facility, even if that facility is across state borders. This

must apply in particular, but not limited to, the communities of the Northern Rivers of NSW,

Albury-Wodonga and the Murray River communities in the Riverina region of Victoria and New

South Wales.



Future Decision-making Structures - Australian Centres for Disease Control (ACDC)



An ACDC represents both an opportunity and a risk to pandemic policy in Australia.



The major risk is the distancing of sound policy advice from disease control capability by

"hollowing out" the Department of Health.               The advantage of the current structure is that

the senior officials and their staff have the knowledge of the working of government, the




10 Note this policy can and should be applied to any disease control policy that involves imposition of individual
rights in favour of disease control and should be used in concert with the Australian Pandemic Ethics
Framework



                                                                                                                 8
   Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



relationships with officials from other agencies and a working ability to be able to balance

competing policy imperatives that have shown to occur during a pandemic.



The creation of a separate institution risks creating an isolated, non-engaged and poorly

integrated QUANGO subject to institutional group think and single-minded pursuit of disease­

control over all other priorities in a pandemic. In short, many of the faults of the Australian

pandemic response as outlined above could be magnified if the terms of reference and role

of the CDC extend into the roles traditionally held by the Chief Medical Officer of Australia,

the AHPPC and its daughter committees.



The marked departure from scientific evidence and pragmatism exhibited within the United

States Centres for Disease Control during COVID-19 is a cautionary tale in the how a CDC can

become divorced from the society it is designed to serve. There is no evidence at all to suggest

that nation's with CDC's performed any better during the pandemic or that a CDC ipso facto

produces better pandemic policy. The structure and function of the ACDC will define how it

contributes to a future pandemic response.



That said, a CDC that is purely operational, designed to establish and maintain a cutting-edge

epidemiology capability that can be exported to the region as a soft-power tool of diplomacy

would be the ideal function for an ACDC. The ACDC should be modelled on the National

Critical and Trauma Response Centre, with a highly operational, research focussed and limited

policy-making role, and one that is dedicated to building response capacity and capability as

well as relationships within the federation and the region.            Moreover, the NCCTRC is

subservient to the Department of Health and Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade for its

activity, reporting through the Office of Health Protection and



The difficulty with an expanded policy making role for a CDC is that it will become another

"partner agency" of the Department of Health in a similar way to multiple other partner

agencies (ranging from the Commission of Safety and Quality in Healthcare through to

          and everything in between) with limited oversight from the Secretary of Health and

an unclear division of responsibility between agencies during both year on year business and

likely even more so during an emergency. This distance would place it further away from other


                                                                                                    9
  Submission - Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Clin A/Prof Nicholas Coatsworth



key agencies involved in emergency response, namely Home Affairs and its own National

Emergency Management Agency.



In terms of practical recommendations, it is critical that the formation of the ACDC does not

involve any functional or legislative change to the role of Chief Health Officers, the AHPPC or

the Chief Medical Officer of Australia.    Public Health policy and decision making during a

pandemic must rest with officials who operate within the structure of government, can be

held accountable by their Minister and are subject to the same operating environment as any

other government official.




Clinical Associate Professor Nicholas Coatsworth

MB,BS (Hons) MlntPH FRACP MD (Honoris Causa)

15 December 2023




                                                                                                   10
