                        Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                     Colin Kinner, 8 December 2023

CONTEXT

I am an experienced science communicator and public health advocate. I am a member of the
independent pandemic advisory group OzSAGE, a member of COVID Safe Schools, a Director of The
Safer Air Project, founder of the Cie        eL     r and a member of the organising committee for
the World Health Network Clean Air Expo. I have written extensively about COVID, in particular the
need for improved public health responses at a national and state level.

My submission addresses four key areas in which I believe the government needs to improve its
pandemic response.

FOCUS ON REDUCING TRANSMISSION

Although it has not been stated explicitly, since late 2021 the government has pursued a de facto policy
of facilitating widespread COVID infection - often referred to as the "let it rip" policy. Over the last two
years the government has systematically dismantled almost all efforts to limit transmission of SARS-
CoV-2, including removing all substantive mitigations such as isolation requirements, contact tracing,
testing and reporting of case numbers.

In parallel, the government has failed to implement the most basic of infection control measures such
as improving ventilation, making use of HERA air filters and requiring high-quality masks to be worn in
healthcare and aged care settings, despite compelling evidence that these measures would be
effective in reducing transmission.

This change of course appears to be based on two heroic assumptions, namely that (a) the Omicron
variant would be "mild" and cause less harm than previous variants, and (b) it would be beneficial to
have large numbers of people infected in order to create lasting population-level "hybrid" immunity.

Both of these assumptions are grossly incorrect, and at odds with research findings that have
accumulated over the last four years.

The push for hybrid immunity has been shown to cause substantial net harm, places people at
unacceptable risk, and is based on dubious public health messaging designed to convince people to act
against their interests.

We have frequently heard the Chief Medical Officer and state Chief Health Officers talking about "very
high levels of hybrid immunity", "rich hybrid immunity" and even "building a wall of immunity". While
COVID infections do provide some degree of immunity, this immunity is          live and gives limited
protection against re-infection as more immune-evasive variants continue to emerge.

Even a mild acute infection can lead to substantial long-term harm - including Long COVID and
increased risk of heart attack, stroke, blood clots, neurological disorders and diabetes. It can also cause
immune system dysregulation which in turn increases susceptibility to other infections.

Research has also shown that the ha    oi     VID is :u       ul     — that is, the risk of a person having
adverse health outcomes increases with each infection.

As independent experts have been pointing out for some time, the benefits of "hybrid immunity"
achieved through widespread infection are significantly outweighed by the harm done by infecting
millions of people with this dangerous virus.

There was clear evidence that it was a mistake to adopt the "let-it-rip" strategy in late 2021. The fact
that it is still at the core of Australia's pandemic response in 2023 is of grave concern. The government
must change tack and replace its current laissez-faire approach with one focused on significantly
reducing transmission.


                                                                                                           1
PROVIDE HONEST PUBLIC HEALTH COMUNICATION

The observable evidence is that most Australians are poorly informed about COVID - including how it
spreads, what can be done to prevent transmission, or why they should even care about it.

At the same time, research over the last four years has shown that SARS-CoV-2 is a virus that should
be taken very seriously. Acute COVID is now a leading cause of death, and COVID infection can lead to
a wide range of long-term health impacts.

The disconnect between perceptions about COVID and reality is stark. It has arisen in part because of
failures by public health officials and politicians to provide accurate and candid information to the
Australian people.

The government has consistently pushed a narrative that COVID is largely in the rear-view mirror, that
now that we've had an opportunity to be vaccinated we are successfully "living with COVID", and that
COVID is "not exceptional" and can be treated "like any other respiratory illness".

The government has focused its communications almost exclusively on the acute phase of infection,
and remained conspicuously silent about the long-term health risks that can follow a COVID infection,
including the fact that risk increases with each reinfection.

Government communications about COVID have also failed to emphasise the fact that COVID is spread
primarily via exhaled aerosols. As a result, much of the public health messaging has emphasised
respiratory droplets, social distancing and hand-washing. Telling people that social distancing or hand­
washing will protect them from a highly contagious airborne virus is totally wrong, and dangerous.

By downplaying the seriousness of the virus, and failing to explain the mode of transmission, the
government has led many Australians to not take simple precautions that would protect themselves
and others - such as getting vaccinated / boosted, wearing P2 / N95 masks, improving ventilation,
using HERA air filters, testing and isolating.

Similarly, many organisations have been influenced by government misinformation and are failing to
provide safe workplaces - including in key settings such as schools, healthcare and aged care, in which
individuals have no choice but to be there, are highly dependent on others to take steps to ensure a
safe environment, and have limited ability to advocate for themselves.

It is vital that the government launch a candid and honest information campaign to educate the public
about the realities of COVID and address widespread misconceptions. Providing accurate and honest
information will empower individuals and organisations to make better choices. It will also make it
easier for the government to implement public health decisions that may be unpopular, such as mask
mandates in high-risk settings.

URGENTLY REDUCE COVID TRANSMISSION IN SCHOOLS

The overwhelming majority of Australian children have been infected with COVID at least once, with a
growing number having been infected two, three, four or more times.

Although the acute phase of most infections has been mild, some children get very sick with
COVID, thousands have been hospitalised, and while rare, there have been a small number of deaths.

The biggest concern for children is the risk of long-term harm in the form of increased risk of blood
clots, heart problems, kidney failure and diabetes, Long COVID and potential damage to their immune
systems, particularly with repeat infections.

Having children bring COVID home to their families is also a major concern. The household secondary
attack rate (ie. the likelihood that one infected family member will infect at least one other family
member) was around 50% for Omicron BA.5, and likely higher for the most recent sub-variants. St dies
have shown that 70% of household infections started with a school-aged index case.




                                                                                                      2
Infection of children at school is therefore leading to infection of parents and siblings, more vulnerable
family members such as grandparents, and the wider community.

The government has failed to provide adequate guidance to schools, and in conjunction with the states
and territories, has failed to support schools to implement proven infection control measures such as
ventilation, CO2 monitoring and HERA filtration.1

It is clear that many teachers and principals do not understand the long-term risks of COVID, the
airborne nature of transmission, the importance of ventilation, or the steps needed to reduce the risk
of transmission. As a result many schools are not taking the necessary actions to prevent COVID
transmission, and school staff are not modelling positive behaviours such as wearing P2 / N95 masks
during times of high transmission.

In many cases parents, teachers and principals have been influenced by government misinformation
suggesting that COVID is nothing more than a mild illness in children, that COVID doesn't spread in
schools, or even that it is good for children to get COVID as a means of building up their immunity.

Children have their whole lives ahead of them. It is profoundly wrong to allow children to be repeatedly
infected with a virus that could cause them long-term harm.

The government should be doing everything possible to prevent children getting infected and re­
infected with SARS-CoV-2. The actions needed to reduce transmission in schools are straightforward,
proven to be effective, and not disruptive to children's learning. They include:

     •           Educating schools and families about how and why to prevent COVID infection
     •           Improving ventilation
     •           Using HERA filters to remove virus particles from the air
     •           Avoiding large indoor gatherings and other high-risk settings; and
     •           Actively encouraging staff and students wear P2 / N95 masks at times of high transmission.

RESET GOVERNMENT HEALTH ADVICE

It is clear that the government has received and acted on health advice that is disconnected from the
emerging facts about COVID, and that this has led to substantial and avoidable harm to the Australian
people.

The government should reset its advice by immediately removing the current Chief Medical Officer
and winding down the AHPPC, and replacing them with a fit-for-purpose group of multidisciplinary
experts who are well informed and can advise the government appropriately.

Importantly, such an expert advisory group must be independent and empowered to provide
evidence-based advice without political interference, and without the shroud of secrecy that has been
used to obscure decision-making via national cabinet. This expert advisory group could ultimately be
embedded in the proposed Australian Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.

Any continuation of the absurd "let it rip" approach that has been taken by the government will
amount to knowingly and deliberately infecting millions more Australians with a virus that causes
death and chronic illness.




1 Arguably Victoria has made significant progress in providing clear communication and supporting public schools to implement ventilation
and HERA filtration.



                                                                                                                                            3
