Submission for the Covid 19 Enquiry

13th December 2023

I strongly urge that an inquiry be sought and that a Royal commission be held to support those that were
affected by the Covid 19 Vaccine, whether it be physical or mental.

There is such strong evidence that this so-called Vaccine has been used as                  The whole
handling of the so-called Pandemic should be put under investigation.

Vaccine Mandates. What               behavior. What ever happened to bodily autonomy?

^^^^Contracts, Mask Mandates, Lock Downs.^^^nd actually allowing the Media to spreac^^J

Constantly shutting down experts in the field so that the government was continually concealing the
truth from the public.

Vaccine injuries and Deaths, Media censorship, silencing of Doctors, The role            and ^^|and
censorship and           of doctors, and the poor treatment of Victims. So many victims and the
Government refused to acknowledge the details and admit that they were at fault.

The worst thing of all was the deaths and Sudden deaths from the Vaccine. Heart Attacks are on the rise
and the media are covering up by leading us to believe that we are becoming an unhealthy society etc
etc. My Husband was one of these victims, whilst he refuses to believe that his doctor and the
government could be wrong. Why would a healthy strong man with no prior heart problems, have a
sudden^^^^^^l 2 weeks after his booster shot. The government must think that everyone is an idiot
not to see this.

There are so many questions as to why the government still refuses to acknowledge what it did to the
human race as we know it. Not only has it affected the hearts of many with other disorders such as
inflammation of the heart. Myocarditis, Seizures, etc etc. The list of injuries is endless, not to also
mention many women now having period problems and not being able to fall pregnant, and when they
do, the baby never makes it to full term.

There has never been anything like this before in history. We all know that the actually get a virus gives
one immunity. The percentage of children that would suffer from a virus is minor. This virus was no
different that from other viruses (apart from the fact that this was man made and released into the
public rendering it                we have had to encounter over the years so to lock down entire cities
and keep people away from their loved ones was the worst violation in mankind.

I demand an inquiry be held if not to recommend compensation to all the victims and their families.

Everyone has suffered in one way or another and this needs to come out in the open. I feel sorry for the
people when they find out that their government and health department have failed them miserably.



Jenny G
