TO: Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet


PO Box 6500


Canberra, ACT 2600


RE: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Dear Officer

I am a retired lawyer and engineer and write to you with great concern about how the
COVID 19 crisis ("the crisis") was handled by the government.

In 2020 when the crisis began there was in place a perfectly good Australian Health
Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza . This had been revised in 2019 and yet was
totally ignored by Commonwealth and State governments.
Why was that the case?
Who decided not to follow this plan and what was their justification?

Instead of following this management plan, a totally heavy handed and dictatorial approach
was adopted in Australia and curiously the same thing occurred around the world as many
nations applied exactly the same strategies in lock step. About the only western country
that did not do so was Sweden.

Additionally, the tried and tested approach in the public sector has been to apply risk
benefit analysis to assess the best policy decisions. Again, in March 2020, this concept was
completely disregarded in favour of policies that decimated and destroyed thousands of
small businesses not deemed essential (curiously bottle shops were left open), deprived
children of schooling and socialising during very formative years, led to a huge increase in
suicide, depression and mental illness, divided families, friends and communities due to
vaccine mandates, locked perfectly healthy people up at home due to unjustified lock
downs and curfews, treated perfectly healthy asymptomatic people like lepers due to a
positive result on a totally unreliable PCR test whose inventor had said was not intended for
diagnosis purposes, and caused many people to lose their jobs due to exerting their right to
refuse a medical procedure without informed consent.

All this devastation, and more, afflicted the Australian public all because of a coronavirus
with an infection fatality rate no worse than a bad seasonal flu. So where was the risk
benefit analysis in deciding to destroy Australia because of something no more deadly than
a bad flu season?

Secondly, why did the Commonwealth government allow State governments and private
sector companies to impose vaccine mandates in violation of the Australian public's right to
receive informed consent on medical treatments, and to not suffer discrimination based on




                                                                                               1
their medical records? Why were State governments permitted to introduce vaccine passes
in contravention of the right to privacy of medical information?

Thirdly,why did the Commonwealth Government at many different levels parrot the
falsehood that the vaccines were 'safe and effective'? How can the TGA ignore years of
work and protocol in ensuring the safety of previous vaccines and accept the claim of the
manufacturers of emergency use authorisation vaccines created in a matter of months,
which should have taken several years of trials before being made available on the market?

At the very least, the TGA should have made these experimental mrna vaccines only
available with an informed consent warning that they had not undergone full clinical trial
testing and that the public should be aware that there may be adverse side effects. But
neither they nor Government and State health ministers said anything other than 'safe and
effective'.

The DAEN database tells a very different story that has been completely ignored and
overlooked by the TGA, Federal and State governments, all health ministers, the media, in
fact everyone who should have been looking and reacting to data as it was collected.

For the nearly 40 years from 1st January 1971 to 3rd December 2020 for all vaccinations
given in Australia for everything (childhood, travel, flu etc) excluding Covid there were -

       18,250 reports of adverse events and 59 reported deaths associated with those
       vaccines in nearly 40 years. It would appear that the TGA had been doing its job and
       keeping the Australian public safe for those 40 years.

However, in the 2 years and 5 months from 3rd December 2020 to 5th May 2023 for just the
4 Covid vaccines there were -

       138,293 reports of adverse events and 986 reported deaths associated with the 4
       vaccines. This is completely unacceptable and should have prompted the TGA to
       withdraw the vaccines from the market, but they are still being pushed on the
       public.

By way of comparison, in the US in the early 2000s when a swine flu vaccine was introduced,
the vaccine was pulled from the market by the FDA after only about 12 deaths.

The Commonwealth Government response to the crisis was ill thought out, deviated from
standard practices that were well established for no good reason, was extremely heavy
handed by allowing the States to act independently with no coordinated approach and the
people of Australia have been let down by the very agency, TGA, that should have been
doing their job to protect us. Where is the evidence to show that the vaccines saved any
lives? There are claims that it may have made the symptoms of Covid less severe, but this is
purely anecdotal.

If a vaccine is effective, then one or possibly 2 shots should provide the desired immunity
from a disease. Many people received several boosters on top of the initial two shots and
they still came down with Covid, so how can the vaccines possibly be called effective under
those circumstances?



                                                                                               2
Please investigate these deficiencies in response

Sincerely,

Timothy Cragg

Qld^B




                                                    3
