I needed to go to hospital for chest pains in late 2021 and I was placed in the presumed
covid positive ward until proven otherwise with police everywhere and PPE on everyone. I
had never had a PCR test and the doctor asked me for my consent to stick the swab up my
nose. Not more than a second after I started thinking about the answer, he had already
shoved it up there forcefully. I asked him to stop saying it was hurting and very painful. If he
had given me a chance to respond, I would have mentioned that I had surgery on my nose
when I was young and it was not appropriate to use that type of test. He laughed and said,
“We’ve all had to do these”. For the next 4 months, my nose felt like it was on fire. The
attitude of the doctor can be directly traced back to the government’s public policy attitude
towards consent and bodily autonomy being something to be dispensed with in an
emergency. An emergency is precisely the time when consent and bodily autonomy should
be respected. The ‘leadership’ shown by the government is what was emulated by medical
professionals.
I am supposed to go to hospital once a year but ever since that traumatic experience, I have
not felt safe in a hospital or around medical ‘professionals’. I have lost trust in them.
I used to trust in the responsible government system but now believe constitutional rights are
necessary because individuals were abandoned during the pandemic and actually to the
detriment of society. The key to a cohesive society is the celebration and enabling of
individuals (as opposed to individualism which is different).
The government should not allow the forced (including effectively forced when your
employment is cut off) vaccination of anyone and especially not for a vaccine that is only
provisionally approved and for which the TGA has not done any independent physical testing
as opposed to verification of documents supplied by manufacturers themselves. Vaccines
usually take a decade to approve and no matter how many people you have working on it, it
still takes the same amount of time to assess them properly because the studies are
dependent upon time to pass as time is a vital factor in proper assessment.
Under the International Health Regulations (2005), the government must develop and
maintain ‘capacity to respond promptly and effectively to public health risks and public
health emergencies of international concern’ (Article 13). You cannot effectively respond to a
health risk if you don’t have enough information. If you do nothing because you don’t have
enough information, you are not reneging on your international obligations. If the threat
comes from within Australia, you can close the borders without all the other excessive
measures and that would adhere to the above requirement. Future responses need to
consider the possibility of not being pressured by certain sectors to ‘do something’ when
doing nothing may in fact be a better option.
