14/12/23

Submission for the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

One week notification for Covid-19 submissions just before Christmas, seems yet another assault and insult
against those that deserve to have a chance to voice their story. Where to start? Perhaps with the Government
trying to control everyone and everything. First, the Government gave themselves, the pharmaceutical
companies and doctors exemptions for any issues that arose due to the vaccines. They then began a concerted
scare campaign about a deadly flu, not allowing normal discourse, with media, Government and personalities
encouraging abuse to anyone that questioned or refused the vaccines. They encouraged the stories of killing
granny, being selfish if you did not follow every suggestion, direction and mandate. Authorities gave people the
least amount of information if any, before using coercion to get people to inject themselves with vaccines that
had never been widely tested or used before. The threat for most of being excluded from work, school, money,
travel and life as we knew it was enough to push most past a place of reason.

Throughout my life, I have been challenged with difficult situations but have never backed down. Always
questioning to get the best for my family and myself, especially when the answers were dismissive or incomplete.
Looking back now, these experiences with the various medical services had prepared me for what occurred
during the lockdowns, coercion, threats, calls of misinformation and ridicule.

When stories began to emerge from China and Italy, it was frightening but the continued media frenzy began to
feel like overkill. The death count was rolled out daily, restaurants, shops and businesses started being closed,
with masks and stay at home and sudden lockdowns began. Kids were allowed to go to school as they were low
risk, but teachers pressured the Government to demand they close too. Information was coming out about
Sweden of allowing people to choose how they wished to live, work, wearing a masks or not, socialising, eating
out or isolating. They did make mistakes early on but realised if they protected the vulnerable, that the rest of
the country could carry on as usual, without destroying businesses and people's mental health.

As a business owner, we saw the effect of Government decisions in many different industries. My business had
been set up to be functional through cloud technology, enabling us to continue working with customers remotely,
although the training component was abruptly halted. The fear being drummed up by the media and various
Chief medical officers made so many terrified of being near people. Meetings stopped, with many businesses
reducing their work outputs due to unavailable staff. Many unavailable for weeks due to Covid tests, with many
having no symptoms but unable to attend work. Governments around the world created a chain reaction,
shutting down workforces in the name of Covid. While it was purported to be deadly and quickly named a
pandemic like the "black plague", in reality it seemed to really only seriously effect frail and/or elderly people or
the very unwell.

The Australian Government veered between not reacting and then overreacting with an initial "let's see" attitude
and then shutting our outside borders and ordering vaccines that were being rush through development to stop
Covid-19. Purchasing so much of an unknown vaccine was expensive and wasteful.

•   The State Governments did their own thing, shouldn't have been allowed.
•   WA being shut off from anyone outside the State with few exemptions.
•   Forthose that left WA, applying to re-enter between 5-8 times was common and having to self-fund isolation
    and testing.
•   For people leaving to see sick and dying people, this was horrendous. No compassion or commonsense and
    hypocrisy with the ultra rich able to come and go at will.
•   Australian citizens were left stranded overseas and interstate for months and in some cases for years. How
    is it possible for a democratic Government to deny a person who lives and works in Australia to enter?
•   February 2020 I flew to Victoria from WA for my^^^funeral. By the time we arrived back in Perth after a
    week, there was little food in the shops, no toilet paper, no supplies were accessible and borders were
    closed.




                                                                                                                   1
•   We were stunned, what had happened?                       and I developed a bit of a ^^^Hwhen back the
    doctor said due to our travel we probably had Covid. He wouldn't test as we had not been overseas but
    wouldn't see us, instead phoning and sending script to the pharmacy.
•   Our customers were starting to feel the effects of the lockdowns, which for a food manufacturer resulted in
    sudden cancelled orders, despite their sourcing and producing the orders ready for shipment. This happened
    a number of times with sudden lockdowns closing restaurants/suppliers who didn't want to hold stock,
    placing massive financial stress on a family business.
•   Others had only skeleton staff and abrupt staff absences couldn't be planned for. The pressure on many
    businesses to keep funding their staff and stock absorbed any financial buffers the owners had.
•   We and many others took money from our Super funds to support their businesses, then were vilified by
    the media for doing so. Due to Government actions, stock delays resulted and some industry sectors, like
    automotive are still recovering. We were not paid by many customers for long periods and then only slowly.
    Their economic stress had a flow on effect. Some days felt like it may be over for some of our clients and we
    were getting very close to edge ourselves.
•   The output of Government decisions could be seen in real time, with many businesses unable to continue
    after a lifetime of working, after shutdowns. Mainly large corporates could continue to operate normally,
    leaving a deficit of SME's.
•   When questioned about shutting the whole Australian economy, the Governments Federal and State stated
    that they saved lives. They did not take into account the mental health, educational costs, strain on medical
    services, staff shortages and thoughtless policies with nursing homes were being serviced by staff taking
    Covid or the Flu from multiple places causing deaths. These mistakes are unforgivable and the Government
    agencies need to take responsibility for their part in this.
•   The pharmaceutical companies promise of a vaccine to be developed and delivered in record time due to
     "innovatively" developing them at the same time as putting them through tria 11 i ng/testi ng in months instead
    of the usual years, should have been examined more fully.
•   I was not willing to blindly accept the Government, pharmaceutical and medical directives and after
     numerous discussions with my doctor regarding the abbreviated trials with insufficient data on safety &
    effectiveness.
•   The vaccines have subsequently been proven to offer little protection and are not safe, causing injuries and
    deaths, much higher than is usual for other vaccines put through years of testing. The Government and
    officials that allowed this are culpable for this outcome.
•   During the active Covid years, the decline in students learning, Universities accepting prior years learning as
    proof of academic ability, people's work being interrupted to home school. Students' mental health and
    their ability to socialise was severely affected by the fear spread by media, government, other
    students/parents & teachers.
•   Government payments to businesses came late, considering how abruptly they shut down the economy. I
    faced discrimination from many businesses, who felt justified to demand to see my health information. I was
    not willing to show it, particularly at a shop. This was also at a time where there were no reported cases of
    Covid in Western Australia, yet were expected to follow what others around the world were doing, while no
    one could enter WA.
•   My family and friends that were in Victoria were at the mercy of the Andrews lockdowns, which were the
    harshest in the world. My^^^l was a^^^^^^^^Mat a covid testing point in Victoria. She was clearly
    so terrified that in a call, she told me that I should not be allowed to take a hospital bed from a sick person
    that had been vaccinated and that she hoped I would die elsewhere. This didn't make sense if the vaccine
    worked, it would be me that needed the hospital bed, not a vaccinated person!
•   It was a terrible time for many, where being called names, dubbed selfish, being ostracised by family and
    friends was almost to be celebrated by the virtuous vaccinatedj^e called an anti-vaxer because of refusing
    one type of experimental vaccine was commonplace. My          and I had built our business over many
    years & were now faced with a confronting, toxic and uncertain environment. If we had mandated people
    to take the Covid vaccine at our workplace, we as business owners would've been liable if staff became sick,
    not the Government, the pharmaceutical companies or the medical practitioners giving it. We were not
    protected but were enforced that staff were vaccinated.


                                                                                                                  2
•   My           had been going to                      recovering from a                  He was banned from
    attending the^^^ because of his Covid vaccine status. He couldn't see a doctor to get treatment and had
    to "hope" that the treatment given was right with phone consult. The same doctor who advised us that we
     had probably had Covid early on & not to get the experimental vaccines. He had myocarditis from the Pfizer
    vaccine, which he treated himself and did not report.(treating nursing home patients enforced vaccination.)
•   I went to my office one weekend for a few hours & later stopped at a supermarket to get some supplies for
    dinner. As I was shopping, a staff member ran up to me demanding I put on a mask as an immediate
     lockdown had started at 4pm. I had no idea, as I had been at work & later found out that this lockdown was
    due to a truck driver at the border "testing positive" to Covid.
•   In February 2022,1 applied for an exemption by a GP practicing with traditional medicine too. Due to possible
    Covid previous year, I had a blood test & applied. I received a curt & rude response from
            Consultant Immunologist, who said I should proceed with the vaccine of choice.
•   At this time, clients, business associates, friends & family were showing the results of vaccine injuries.
    Remembering the exemptions, the doctors told these injured people, some permanently injured, that it was
    not because of the vaccine but something undetermined. The doctors carried out expensive tests uncover
    injury cause. My distrust of what was being forced onto people that wanted to work & at low risk if they got
    Covid had grown considerably. People I knew:
    •         had Moderna, he was^^^^^^l was very^^^^i had^^^^^^^^|. The cardiologist
         said the anger from people forced to have vaccines to keep their jobs & then getting permanent heart
         issues was frequent and growing.
    •         A^^^^^had a Pfizer vaccine became                       & unable to run his business.
    •        Another ^^Hwas rushed to hospital with a^^^^^^^The nurse said that this was very common.
    •        A number of people died at relatively young ages.
    •        Another had a vaccine and developedHHHH
    •         Another developed& then had                       Due to lockdowns, he was not allowed anyone
         in the hospital and couldn't explain what happened due to his
    •    People were told that they would not be able to work or get unemployment benefits if they did not
         comply by getting the vaccines. When people say they had no options, this is why.
    •        There are many more stories.

I was so distressed by what was happening around the world, in Australia and in my own state that I felt
compelled to run in the Federal election. I was going to protests in ^^^^^(nd the media was falsely reporting
that there were only a few hundred people when there were thousands all the                                   Due to
running in the election, I was meeting a lot of people and was privy to a lot of stories of people that had lost
their ability to work, their health or both. It defies belief that doctors are still not allowed to speak up or treat
what is evidently vaccine injuries or they may lose their license to practice medicine.

The actions taken by Government agencies to put directives that people believe they have to follow, regardless
of their wishes is unforgivable. The various legislation put in place giving extraordinary powers to police,
removing or limiting people's choices and freedoms, should never have been possible in Australia as a democratic
country. Medical practitioners have and still deny appropriate medical assistance to those with vaccine injuries.
The threat over them has to be removed, so they are able to speak out and act to begin addressing the medical
issues that are arising from vaccine injuries.

I continue to read the stories of how the Covid vaccines have changed people's lives permanently, as well as
those that have lost everything. Moving to start in a new town, to work when they can, many in industries or
professions not within their training and expertise, so they are able to choose how they want to live.

No one should dictate to Australians what they should put in their bodies to continue working or studying. Not
government, no doctor or law should be allowed to do this in the future. Unless we are willing to change Australia
from a Democracy to a Socialist or Communist Nation, this has to be forever prevented from happening again.
The Covid actions and results by Sweden should be examined, as they ended up with less debt, having a more
normal economy throughout and afterwards and better overall results for their citizens health outcomes.



                                                                                                                   3
