   Submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Dr|

I am a medical scientist employed in human infectious disease pathology testing for over|
            I service on many international and national committees, in particular the European
Expert Committee on medical devices and in-vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVD), Australian
Standards committe^                 and Australian National Testing Strategy committees. My
employer is a WHO Collaborating Centre and my role has active and on-going activities with the
WHO, Global Fund and USA ODO. Of note, I have been an advisor to the WHO Prequalification of
medical Products focused on IVDs. I had oversight of the evaluation of IVDs for the evaluation of
diagnostics tests for SARS-CoV-2 serology on behalf of WHO, as well as the evaluation of rapid
antigen test kits for the Australian Government, Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). The
organisation I work for, the                                                               conducts
evaluations of test kits on behalf of the WHO and TGA and is a leading authority globally on test
kit evaluations, as well as a provider of quality assurance services to Australian and international
laboratories using these test kits.       was established in 1985 by the Australian Government in
response to the HIV epidemic. Atthe time           was responsible for the evaluation of HIV test kits
and advised TGA of which tests should be used and in what sequence they should be used to
optimise the sensitivity and specificity of test results. Although the circumstances between HIV
and COVID-19 were different          etains the capacity to perform this work, and routinely advises
foreign ministries of health on test kit selection.

This submission focuses on the introduction of new diagnostic tests in a pandemic setting.
Australia is party to the IMDRF whereby all IVDs are regulated using a classification system (1 to
4 in Australia). In Australia, all IVDs must be evaluated by the TGA for performance, quality and
safety and listed on the Australian Registry for Therapeutic Goods (ARTG) prior to being sold in
Australia. Similar processes are required in most countries with stringent regulatory systems
includingthe USA (FDA), Europe (Medicines Agency). IVDs testingfor high-riskdiseases that have
significant impact on an individual and the community require comprehensive performance
evaluation prior to listing.

At the advent of COVID-19, all regulatory authorities globally, includingthe WHO, allowed the use
of test kits for SARS-CoV-2 be used under “Emergency Use Listing” (EUL). This was a pragmatic
and necessary response to a quickly developing emergency. The checks and balances normally
stringently applied to IVDs sold in Australia were set aside. However, the outcome of this decision
meant that a) numbers of commercial and start up companies not having any exposure to the
regulatory system were allowed to import and distribute test kits into Australia and b) the quality
of tests being supplied was essentially unknown. Many millions of dollars were spent in the
purchase of these test kits. The TGA required minimal evidence of performance, and accepted
manufacturer-derived data.

In March 2020, my employer wrote to the Health Minister offering our services to establish
systematic process for the evaluation of new test kit. If accepted at the time, a comprehensive
evaluation of the performance and use of the test kits and on-going surveillance of the
performance of testing could have been implemented within 6 months. Sample repositories
could have been established allowing for a better understandingof the test kits and their use and
support on-going evaluations and research. Disappointingly, this request was denied by the
minster’s office and the TGA. Australia, as in most other countries, experienced a flood of new
IVDs into the country, without any systematic review of quality or performance.
The TGA contracted the Peter Doherty Institute (PDI) to evaluate the SARS-CoV-2 serology rapid
test kits. The initial report dated 29th April 2020 was substandard, as PDI had little expertise in the
evaluation of test kits. After subsequent representation from               to the TGA, all further
evaluations were undertaken by^H in collaboration with PDI and TGA staff, as it was recognised
that^^had existing, functional quality systems suited to IVD evaluations. It should be noted
that staff at PDI, which incorporates Victorian Infectious Disease Reference Laboratory (VIDRL),
the Victorian public health laboratory, was already stretched due to the State, National and
International public health commitments in a state of emergency. The medical and scientific staff
were under extreme duress. In my opinion, it was inappropriate for the government to accentuate
this situation by contract them to undertake activities that were outside their expertise, when a
world-leading organisation stood ready to perform the tasks. It must be stated that PDI excelled
in delivering international public health services throughout the pandemic.

Although COVID-19 was quite prevalent in Victoria, access to clinical samples was extremely
difficult. I personally spent three months seeking access to samples, obtaining ethics and
material transfer agreements, liaising with clinical services and contacting representatives of
departments of health, without success. ^^Hfinally paid for access to clinical samples from
commercial suppliers from Ireland, Germanyand USA, spending many thousands of dollars, but
where successful in creating a world-class panel of samples suitable for comprehensive
evaluations of test kits. We were able to offer this evaluation service to WHO and test kit
manufacturers.

Subsequent to this recent COVID-19 pandemic, is Australia in a better position to respond to the
next emergency when faced with the evaluation and licensing of diagnostic devices?
Undoubtedly, we are no better off nowthan in 2019. The barriers faced in 2019 still remain. Since
COVID-19, Australia has experienced outbreaks of Mpox, Japanese Encephalitis and our nearest
neighbour, Indonesia had foot and mouth disease. Climate change will exacerbate outbreaks
and pandemics.

To address these barriers, a range of activities and infrastructure should be implemented.

•   Identify and fund an organisation with demonstrable expertise in the evaluation of test kits;
•   Develop templated protocols for the evaluation of test kits most likely required for future
    outbreaks, based on probability and technical requirements;
•   Establish collaborations between existing public health and scientific organizations such as
    PDI, CSIRO Australian Center for Disease Preparedness and relevant State and Federal
    Ministries of Health, as well as the TGA;
•   Establish ethics for sample collection, material transfer agreements, sample bank
    repositories and international collaborations with sample providers;
•   Create a response plan to be initiated in an emergency setting, which allows immediate
    access to test kits but quickly evaluates the quality and performance of the tests so that
    underperforming tests can be removed from the market quickly;
•   Develop a communication strategy for the evaluation laboratory to inform the TGA on poor
    performance;
•   Establish quality assurance programs that monitor the performance of IVDs once placed in
    the market;

Without these elements in place, future outbreaks will be met with the same competition for
funding, samples, experienced personnel and infrastructure. This competition leads to delays,
fragmentation in approaches, poorer quality outputs which feed mis-information and ultimately,
poor test kits reporting incorrect results.
