COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION

Adam P

12/12/2023



PREAMBLE

I struggle to believe that any inquiry that excludes unilateral actions by the states that make up the
commonwealth is anything but a sham. Allowing one week, without advanced notice, immediately
prior to Christmas reeks of our        tyrannical government trying to avoid scrutiny of their
inhumane and grotesque policies. Policies that have destroyed the social fabric of this nation and
harmed and killed more people than I could possibly count. I am open to being proven wrong and
willing to recant my scepticism, but I won't hold my breath given the last four years of tyranny.

Given that vaccine mandates are still in place in some areas, I define the Covid era from March
2020 until the present day. The Government has abused powers that were never consented to or
given to them by the people. A reminder, the government is meant to work for the people, not
terrorise them and control their lives to the tiniest detail. I consider the last four years nothing short
of terrorism commited by our Government against their own population and nothing short of a
Nuremberg type trial will suffice, until that happens our country will never heal or move on from
this darkness. The use of violence, propaganda, division and grotesque coercion will forever be a
stain on our country. If humanity does not deliver justice, I assure


I could write an entire book on how               tyrannical and unscientific the policies were/are, but
for the sake of this inquiry I will try toKeepitbrief.


The following points need to be rigorously addressed:

    •   The refusal to allow Australian citizens to return home cut the heart out of what it means to
        be a citizen. Families were destroyed, trauma was inflicted on a massive scale and
        opportunities were lost that can never be regained.
    •   The refusal to allow citizens to leave this country crippled so many families and individuals
        and had no justification at all.
    •   The current excess death rate! Why were we so scared during Covid and were told daily via
        the paid for mainstream media how many people had died and had tested positive. But now
        that we have an excess death rate of above 15%, there is silence from media and politicians.
        WHY?
    •   The National Cabinet had no legitimacy at all! It had no basis in the constitution and
        reminded me of                            They operated in total secrecy and to this dat
        have not released their minutes.
    •   The^^^f prime minister being permitted to give himself a plethora of ministerial
        positions, what an absolute joke. How Australian's tolerated this is beyond me.
    •   The federal government staying silent and consenting to border closures and other non
        medical interventions, up to and including standing by as kids died from a lack of basic
        medical care because of these closures.
    •       The trauma inflicted on the whole nation as a result of lockdowns.
    •       The damage done to kids who were denied the routine of school and social activities and
    told they were to live in fear of'killing grandma'.
•   The damage masks did to kids whose development in speech and understanding body
    language was damaged hugely
•   The fact mandated medical experiments, under coercion of losing ones job and therefore
    home and livelihood, took place in this country is so despicable I recoil at the time and am
    filled with sorrow for those who gave in and took the jab and now regret it. Why on earth
    are mandates still in place anywhere?
•   The fact the injections were never even tested on their ability to stop or limit transmission,
    yet the propaganda told people they should get the jabs to 'protect others'. I am at a loss of
    words over this. The way people who did not want to submit to an experimental injection
    were treated by the government, media and much of the                population is a stain
    that will scar this country forever.
•        The dismissal and banning of any treatment other than the injections was abhorrent.
•   Why was the government interfering in the doctor patient relationship by censoring and
    threatening doctors?
•   AHPRA's threatening of doctors was beyond shameful. What a way to make people lose any
    trust forever in 'the authorities'.
•   The Federal Governments failure to ensure the MRNA injections were assessed as the
    Genetically Modified Organisms that they are.
•        The heartbreaking and disgusting gaslighting of those injured by the vaccine.
•   The censoring of scientists who were extremely qualified to enter the public conversation,
    but they were derided and silenced because they didn't agree with the government narrative.
•        The fact the TGA recieves over 90% of its funding from pharmaceutical companies!
•   The building of 'Quarantine' facilities paid for with taxpayer dollars even though the jab
    does not do anything for transmission.
•   Why are the companies that made these injections free from being sued for harms they
    cause? Does that motivate them to make a safe product?
•   The abuse of fundamental human rights! Mandating a medical procedure is perhaps the
    greatest crime against humanity of my lifetime and I don't expect this inquiry will do
    anything about it at all. I am open to being proven wrong. Ifjustice is not delivered here,




    w
    i
    1
    1

    h
    o
    1
    d

    y
    o
    u

    a
    1
    1

    a
    c
    c
    o
