My submission concerns the effects of the covid 19 response, by government, on myself and my family.

With regard to the vaccine mandates, mask mandates and lockdowns, my elderly parents were badly
impacted, ruining their final years, unable to spend valuable time with their family, all the way down to
newborn great grandchildren.

Firstly, starting with myself and my husband, we refused the vaccine even though I am
immunocompromised and                                                              I also havi
                     We did not follow mask mandates and continued travelling, where required for farm
related business.
I also lost approximately^^^J due to the loss of my off farm job in childcare because I refused the
mandated vaccines.

Three of the four doctors and specialists we see recommended Not To Be vaccinated. Only one said I
should.


We both had Delta, sleepy for 4 days plus I ended up with loss of taste and smell for a few weeks. We
also had Omicron. Again a little sleepy and headachy. We have both had colds and flus much worse.

Our relationship with our family suffered. Our children wanted us to stay away in case we brought covid
to them. My brother forbade me visiting my parents or them from visiting me to the point where they
would sneak to my place and say "Don't tell your brother we were here". They live on his farm so me
visiting them would have been seen.

Everyone else in our family who were old enough got the vaccine. Our then                  grandson ended
up with myocarditis. He is currently well to the best of our knowledge.

My mother came off worst. She died. Mum                and prior to the vaccine being given, she was an
extremely fit and healthy woman. Bushwalking, camping, birdwatching, like a woman half her age.

First, mum had 3 strokes after her 2nd astrazeneca. She never was the same after that. Weak and
lethargic, she had lost her joy of life and in her family.
                     fter her third vaccine, which was pfizer.


          She only lived a few months            She did not have it before vaccination as she had
coincidentally been tested. My^^^^^^Jdad is so angry that his wife is gone because of government
and beaurocratic incompetence and outright lies.


Even after pfizer executives were interviewed on main stream media and admitted that they knew their
vaccines were never going to stop transmission, nor would they give the protection they first stated, the
government and beaurocrats still pushed the vaccine agenda. WHY??? What did they have to gain?


I personally know two women, pregnant, who lost their babies after vaccination and another less close
family member who was vaccinated in her first trimester. Her baby was diagnosed with an^^^^^H
^^^Ma few weeks before he was born. It remains to be seen whether he will survive or die.
I would hope that those responsible were held to account for their lies, that the response to future
pandemics was more realistic and that people were permitted to decide for themselves whether or not
to follow government 'recommendations'.

We didn't and we are fine, even though I should be dead if the covid spin was to be believed.

My family, who did believe and trust the 'experts' have come out of this debacle far worse than if they
had done as we did and ignored the so called 'experts'.

I will never trust the government or its beaurocrats again in my lifetime. You have all proven yourselves
the most untrustworthy and incompetent


Yes I am angry. Yes I think you should all be tried for the grievous bodily harm done to some and the
murder of those, like my mum, who died because you all lied.

It will be a long time, if ever, before I might be able to forgive. I WILL NEVER FORGET! 11
