Raina Cruise                          Covid 19 Response Inquiry Submission                                        12/12/2023


                                                      COVID RESPONSE

      During the purported covid 19 pandemic 2020 until current, response measures ordered and enforced by
      government and supported by media and the medical industry were nothing short of coercive control and abuse
      with detrimental outcomes.

  >   Coercive control within a relationship is described as follows:

      1. Isolating you from your support system. An abusive partner will cut you off from friends and family, or limit your
      contact with them so you don't receive the support you need.

      2.       Monitoring your activity throughout the day.

      3. Denying you freedom and autonomy. A person exerting coercive control may try to limit your freedom and
      independence. For example, not allowing you to go to work or school, restricting your access to transportation,
      stalking your every move when you're out, taking your phone and changing passwords, etc.

      4. Gaslighting, where the abuser makes you doubt your own truth, experience and sanity, by insisting that they are
      always right, and instils their narrative of a situation, even if the evidence points against this. Gaslighting in essence,
      is based on lies and manipulation of the truth.

      5.       Name-calling and severe criticism, as well as malicious put-downs which are all extreme forms of bullying.

      6. Limiting access to money and controlling finances. This is a way of restricting your freedom and ability to leave
      the relationship. Financial abuse is listed above as a specific form of abuse but, within the context of coercive
      control, financial control is a tactic to keep a person disempowered, by utilising strategies such as:

  •   placing you on a strict budget that barely covers the essentials such as food or clothes
  •   limiting your access to bank accounts
  •   hiding financial resources from you
  •   preventing you from having a credit card
  •   rigorously monitoring what you spend.

      7. Coercing you, to take care of all the domestic duties such as cleaning, cooking and childcare without sharing the
      responsibility and tasks involved to undertake these duties.

      8. Turning your children against you. If you have children either with the abuser or someone else, they may try to
      weaponise the children against you by making comments that are critical of you, belittling you in front of the
      children, or telling them that you're a bad parent. Sometimes the techniques are very subtle and insidious, involving
      slow drip-feeding of a narrative that regards you as abnormal.

      9. Controlling aspects of your health and your body. The abuser will monitor and control how much you eat, sleep,
      exercise, or how much time you spend in the bathroom. They may also control where you go for medical help, and
      the medications you take.

      10. Making jealous accusations about the time you spend with family or friends, either in person or online, as a way
      of phasing out all your contact with the external world, except for them.

      11. Regulating your sexual relationship, for example making demands about the amount of times you engage in sex
      each day or week, and the kinds of activities you perform.

      12. Threatening your children or pets as an extreme form of intimidation. When physical, emotional, or financial
      threats do not work for the abuser as desired, they may make threats against others such as your loved ones,
      children and pets, who are also beloved members of the household.

      https://www.relationshipsvictoria.org.au/news/what-is-coercive-control/

      From July 2024, coercive control will be a criminal offence in NSW when a person uses abusive behaviours towards
      a current or former intimate partner with the intention to coerce or control them.
Raina Cruise                                                   Covid 19 Response Inquiry Submission                                                                          12/12/2023


  >    Covid 19 Pandemic Response Coercive Control Government Orders:


  1.   Lockdown and isolate person from family, friends and support system.
  2.   Monitor activity throughout day via forcing check in and sign in process, or not allow to leave home.
  3.   Deny person freedom and autonomy by not allowing person to go to work, school, transport, doctors, run their
       businesses during lockdowns or without giving up body autonomy.
  4.   Gaslighting person by pretending their concerns are of no importance, i.e being unable to provide food and raise
       income to care for their family and finance their bills, or deny valid concerns around potential dangers around
       experimental vaccine or non-effective use and negative health effects from wearing masks in not sanitary
       environments.
  5.   Calling these people inconsiderate, selfish, antivaxxers, non-maskers, dirty or dangerous.
  6.   Turning family members against you because you have not submitted to the coercive control and forced medical
       procedures or dirty ineffective mask wearing, i.e media suggesting not to allow anti-maskers or antivaxxers to
       attend family Christmas gatherings.
  7.   Controlling aspects of health and body by forcing non-scientific mask wearing as protective protocol against a virus
       plus blackmailing and bullying person in to taking experimental mRNA vaccine against their wishes or be denied
       basic health care, employment, studies.

       The effects of coercive control can lead to some mental health conditions including depression and PTSD in some
       individuals. The negative health risks of coercive control behaviours should be considered when implementing
       pandemic response measures on the entire population.

       https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37052388/

       Government Suicide and self-harm monitoring indicates a significant increase in Australians experiencing severe
       psychological distress from 8.4% in February 2017 to 10.6% in April 2020 and to 12.5% in October 2021 and has
       remained relatively high ever since sitting at approximately 11%.

       https://www.aihw.gov.au/suicide-seif-harm-monitoring/data/covid-19

  >    The Experimental Vaccine Mandates


       The Covid 19 vaccine caused legitimate concerns for many of the public with the vaccine being released and
       recommended for use prior to long term safety studies and post marketing data collection. Whilst keeping track of
       adverse reaction reporting via government websites including the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) and
       Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS), it was obvious that there was serious risk to taking the
       experimental vaccine which the government and media were not acknowledging, and they continued to impose
       serious penalty to those who did not submit to vaccination and used coercive control measures to try to increase
       the vaccine recipient numbers by preventing non compliers from going to work and earning a living to feed and
       support their family, preventing students from attending education campuses and preventing access in to other
       social establishments.
                                                                                                    Reports of death in people who have been vaccinated
        Total adverse event reports following                                                       Vaccines can lead to death in extremely rare instances. However, most deaths that occur after vaccination
        immunisation to 17 September 2023                                                           are not caused by the vaccine. In large populations in which a new vaccine is given, there are people with
                                                                                                    underlying diseases who may die from these diseases. When a vaccine is given in that same population, the
                                                                                                    link between the vaccine and death is usually coincidental - not caused by the vaccine. These deaths are
                                                                                                    carefully reviewed to assess whether vaccines could be the cause and for the vast majority that is not the
        2.0                              139,506                       68,683,861                   case.

        Reporting rate per 1.000 doses   Total adverse event reports   Total doses administered
                                                                                                    The TGA closely reviews all deaths reported in the days and weeks after COVID-19 vaccination. Read more
                                                                                                    about this process in a previous report. Since the beginning of the vaccine rollout to 17 September 2023,
                                                                                                    almost 69 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been given in Australia. The TGA has identified 14
        48,850                           81,859                        7,613                        reports where the cause of death was linked to vaccination from 1001 reports received and reviewed. There
                                                                                                    have been no new vaccine-related deaths identified since 2022.
        Total reports for Vaxzevna       Total reports for Comirnaty   Total reports for Spikevax

                                                                                                    The 14 deaths likely to be related to vaccination occurred in people aged 21-81 years old. There have been
                                                                                                    no deaths in children or adolescents determined to be linked to COVID-19 vaccination. More detail on
         1,023                           780                                                        these deaths is available in the safety report published on 15 December 2022.


        Total reports for Nuvaxovrd      Total reports for brand not                                If we identify a new death likely to be related to vaccination, we will publish this information promptly, as
                                         specified                                                  we have for all other cases since the start of the vaccine roll-out.




       COVID-19 vaccine safety report - 21-09-2023 | Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)
Raina Cruise                                                   Covid 19 Response Inquiry Submission                                   12/12/2023




                                                   VAERS COVID Vaccine
                                                   Adverse Event Reports
                                      Repons from rhe vaccine Adverse Events Reporting system. Our default data




                                                    AIIVASOS«WIOO.|Wni         US/rtf'KonKVi’Urw-n


                                      1,615,020 Reports Through November 3, 2023 o




                 36,726                                            212,294                                        153,281
                      DEATHS                                       HOSPITALIZATIONS                               LI RO ENT CARE




                240,624                                            10,706                                         17,575
               DOCTOR OFFICE VISITS                                 ANAPHYLAXIS                                    BELL'S PALSY




               5,071                                                                    27,832                           68,819
              Miscarriages                                                              Myocarditis/                    Permanently
                                                                                        Pericarditis                     Disabled




               9,008                            38,959                                  46,529                           15,960
           Thrombocytopenia/                  Life Threaten I ng                      Severe Allergic                     Shingles
              Low Platelet                                                              Reaction




      COVID Vaccine Data - OpenVAERS

      There were other scientific studies coming out which caused concern, one being a study from Sweden which
      concluded that the Covid-19 mRNA vaccine developed by Pfizer and BionTech can actually reverse transcribe the
      mRNA and integrate it in to the genome of human cells. Changes in gene expression in the liver cells was discovered
      and the mRNA can be reverse transcribed intracellularly in to DNA very quickly. This contradicts what was being said
      about the mRNA not effecting our DNA.

      https://www.mdpi.eom/1467-3045/44/3/73

  >   Mask Wearing

      Mask wearing has no scientific data to back up the benefits of wearing. Infact, a Cochrane meta-analysis concluded
      that they were of no benefit.

      Physical interventions to interrupt or reduce the spread of respiratory viruses - Jefferson, T - 2023 | Cochrane
      Library


      The impact mask wearing had on the environment and the potential health risks i.e delayed social development in
      children not reading facial cues and the risk of bacteria collection on the mask then being inhaled back down the
      respiratory tract can lead to lower respiratory illnesses including bacterial pneumonia, should definitely be
      considered and weighed up with the benefits which according to the Cochrane review appears to be nothing.

  >   Effect on Economy!

      The financial burden this pandemic response has had on the economy, including lock downs which decimated small
      businesses, costs of vaccines (that didn't work!) which our grandchildren will still be paying back long after we are
      gone has destroyed our economy and lead our country straight into a recession. The negative effects of this
      pandemic response will be felt for many years to come and will never be forgotten by many of us.
