           Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response inquiry
Hi Guys,

My name is Dean Britton and this is a short story regarding my reaction to the Pfizer Covid-19
vaccination.

For starters, please excuse this letter as it was quite rushed as I only saw this the night prior to the
submission deadline.

My story starts back in early January 2022 after I had the third Pfizer vaccination.^^^^^and I went
to have to 3rd injection as we were on Christmas holidays and were very close to the vaccination
centre. We figured it'd be made mandatory sooner or later, and so trying to do the right thing we
got the vaccine.

My issues started a day or so after I had the vaccine when I really started struggling to breathe. I
ended up at^^^H 2 days afterwards and he said my chest muscles had frozen from the vaccine.
This was stopping my chest from expanding when inhaling making breathing quite difficult. I was
prescribed Prednisolone (not 100% that's spelt correctly). This helped me breathe again and any
issues seemed to be resolved within a couple of days. Unfortunately, soon afterwards I noticed I was
feeling very lethargic, was struggling to concentrate and my left hand kept going numb. This carried
on for a couple of months.

I awoke one morning mid-late March 2022 feeling quite unwell. I couldn't pinpoint what it was as I'd
never previously felt this way. I got up, had a shower and started getting ready for work when I
started to feel even worse. I went and laid on the bed and felt my pulse, it was very erratic. I called
an ambulance and was taken to Frankston Hospital. I was kept for observation and while hooked up
to all of the machines in the E.R. and talking to the doctor my heart rate sky rocketed to over
180BPM, I was lying on a bed. I was prescribed Sotalol and discharged early the next morning with a
referral to see a cardiologist and to wear a bolter monitor. I saw the bolter monitor people a few
days later and had to wear it for a full 7 days. I went to see the cardiologist not long after and was
informed I was in SVT and Afib.

At this stage I was quite sick. The medication was making me drowsy and my malfunctioning heart
was making me very tired. I was sleeping a good 12hrs every night and close to half the day. I
couldn't drive as it was if I was drunk due to very poor concentration and dizziness, and working was
completely out of the question. It went on like this for a few months until I went back to see the
cardiologist.

I saw the cardiologist a few months later and was given a different medication, it helped a bit was
not a lot. I was still quite drowsy and struggled to concentrate. Another few months went by like this
when I saw^^^H My heart rate was still playing up and he referred me to another cardiologist.

I saw the new cardiologist November 2022, he checked my heart and said it was fine and told me to
stop taking the medication. I stopped cold turkey and was feeling pretty good for a few of days, but
after close to a week I was feeling really bad. I was feeling quite clammy was really struggling to
breathe, so I decided to call an ambulance. My heart was back in Afib and SVT and my heart rate was
over 220BPM. I was kept overnight in the hospital and referred to a cardiologist again.

I saw the cardiologist a third time and was told I'd need an ablation. It was another 13 weeks before
I could get the surgery. During this time I was trying to lose some of the weight I had gained over the
last year or so and was still quite sick. Thirteen weeks later I went into the hospital for the heart
surgery. I think I'd managed to lose 7 or 8kg's. This was in May 2023.

Two days after the procedure I had to call an ambulance a third time as I thought I was having a
massive heart attack. I had a lot of chest pain which radiated from my sternum, down to my spine
and across my back. I was gasping for breath and shaking uncontrollably. The 2 young ambulance
officers were in quite a bit of panic to get me to the hospital and rang ahead to ensure I was received
by the E.R. straight away. I arrived at the hospital to a barrage of tests. I was not given much in the
way of pain meds as they were trying to find out the cause. In the end I had pericarditis, an
inflammation of the lining of my heart most likely due to the surgery.

The recovery period was quite long, with a regimen of drugs to be taken daily for I think it was 6
weeks. At the start I was taking over 20 tablets a day, but this was reduced every week or 2 over the
6 weeks. In the end I think I was taking about 6 per day.

I am now and have been back at work full time for the past few months now. I am only now starting
to get back to a level of base fitness where I can work, mow the lawn etc. I am currently still trying to
lose weight and once I lose another 10-15kgs I intend to start back exercising. Maybe I'll get back
into some swimming and boxing, taking it very easy of course.

Thanks,

Dean Britton.



Additional notes:




                                    It says when you sign up you will not receive any compensation if
          you've received help from centrelink.




    4.    When I did start getting back to work it was originally for 2 half days per week. I could not do
          any more than this, I was too tired and couldn't concentrate.




    7.    My claim was denied as I did not have either Pericarditis or Myocarditis, the only 2 ailments
          the scheme sees as a side effect of the vaccine.
    8.    All I ask is that I am reimbursed the lost income so we can get back on our feet.
    9.    Please also note that the above may not be 100% correct (timelines etc). They will however
          be very close.
