                                                                                                      Shipping Australia Limited
        Shipping                                                                                              ABN 61 096 012 574
                                                                 Suite 606, Level 6, 80 William Street, Woolloomooloo NSW 2011
         Australia                                                                      PO Box Q388 QVB PO, Sydney NSW 1230
           Limited
                                                                                                  www.shippingaustralia.com.au
                                                                                                adinin@shippingaustralia.com.au
SAL 2023-004
                                                                                                             17 March 2023
Committee Secretary
Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience
Parliament House, Canberra
Via email: disasterresilience.sen@aph.gov.au


Dear Committee Secretary
Shipping Australia’s submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia’s Disaster
Resilience
Relevance of our submission to the Terms of Reference
Shipping Australia has noted with interest that on 30 November 2022, the Senate resolved to
establish a Select Committee on Australia’s Disaster Resilience. The Terms of Reference
include inquiry into

(c) consideration of the practical, legislative, and administrative arrangements that
would be required to support improving Australia’s resilience and response to natural
disasters; and

(d) any related matters.
Shipping Australia will below present an outline of some of the issues that have arisen during
the ongoing COVID-induced global disaster. We also discuss other disaster-related issues.
This submission is a mere outline brief of a variety of important issues; Shipping Australia
representatives would likely be available to provide further details upon request.
About Shipping Australia
We are the principal Australian peak body that represents the locally owned and the locally
active ocean freight-focused commercial freight shipping industry. In a nutshell, we represent
the companies that, in some way, are involved with the physical transport ocean-going freight
whether that is grain, iron ore, general cargo, or other freight carried on commercial terms.
For the avoidance of confusion, neither we nor our members are involved in sectors such as
recreational maritime, commercial fishing, or maritime defence (naval). Shipping Australia
does not represent the offshore oil or gas industry, although some of our members may have
business interests in those sectors.
We provide policy advice, insight, and information to approximately 70 members, who,
between them, employ more than 3,000 Australians. We provide policy input to Australian
State, Territory and Commonwealth Government bodies. We are recognised across Australia
by politicians, public service officials, and the media as being the national association for
shipping in Australia.

Shipping Australia submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience (2023).             Page 1 of 6
The constitution of Shipping Australia permits any owner or operator of ocean-going ships,
or any provider of a variety of marine services, to join Shipping Australia provided they carry
out relevant marine-related business (see below) in Australia. Membership of Shipping
Australia is available to Australian businesses upon application and acceptance.
A wide range of Australian businesses are members of Shipping Australia, and these
businesses include Australian ports, shipping agents, towage companies, ocean shipping
lines, and a wide variety of Australian-owned and locally-operated maritime service
providers. Services provided by our members include ocean freight shipping, local seaport
cargo handling, domestic harbour towage, Australian marine surveying, and domestic
pilotage, among other services. Our members handle nearly all Australian containerised
seaborne cargo. They also handle a considerable volume of our car, and our bulk commodity
trades.
Shipping Australia would be happy to explain and elaborate on any of the points in our
submission. We are amenable to appearing before the Committee.
Our submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia’s Disaster Resilience begins
overleaf.
Submission authorised by:
Capt Melwyn Noronha
CEO, Shipping Australia




Shipping Australia submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience (2023).   Page 2 of 6
SUBMISSION BEGINS
     1. Economic matters: in the 2018-2019 financial year there were about AUD$373.51
        billion of tangible1 goods / commodities exports and AUD$320.00 billion of physical
        goods / commodities imports. Together, the value of physical imports and exports
        totalled about AUD$693.52 billion. Exports therefore accounted for about 18.86% of
        our GDP in that year and imports for about 16.15%, equalling about 35.1% of GDP.
     2. Australia's physical two-way trade in 2018-2019 was 1,694.9 million tonnes (1.69
        billion tonnes) of cargo by volume and $692,858 million ($693 billion) of cargo by
        value.
     3. The shipping of ocean-going freight is vitally important to Australia as freight is
        overwhelmingly transported by sea. Ocean-going ships carried 1.69 billion tonnes of
        cargo with a value of about $579.2 billion. Therefore, about 99.93% by volume and
        83.6% by value of all Australian freight is transported by ocean-going cargo ships2.
     4. In 2016-2017 that physical, sea-going, trade volume was carried by 5,845 uniquely
        identified cargo ships and they made a total of 32,801 port calls at Australian ports in
        2016-17. These included 5,743 cargo ships which made 17,068 voyages to Australian
        waters from overseas ports, according to The Bureau of Infrastructure and Transport
        Research Economics (BITRE), which reports on the number of vessel calls in
        Australian ports.
     5. The benefits of Australia's international trade far exceed the dollar value of the cargo
        itself.
     6. The term "merchandise trade” means the trade in physical goods that cross the border
        of a country, and which are sold and / or used in that country. Australia's merchandise
        trade as a percentage of gross domestic product is about 35.27%.
     7. A 2017 study demonstrated that Australia's liberal international trade system led to
        the economy being 5.4% higher in 2016 than it would otherwise have been without
        trade liberalisation; that the average Australian family had a real income AUD$8,448
        higher than otherwise; and that trade supported approximately l-in-5 jobs, which was
        about 2.2 million employees at the time.
     8. Exports supported about 14% of all employment in 2016 and imports supported about
        6% of all employment. Today, a one-in-five international trade supported jobs figure
        would equate to about 2.6 million Australians given that current Australian workforce
        numbers just over 13 million people.
     9. Resilience of shipping to external shocks: ocean-going shipping is the key mode of
        transport in the international supply chain and, although any given ship might
        possibly be vulnerable to any given event or threat at any given time, ocean-going
        shipping as a whole has been proven to be resilient. Australia’s maritime supply
        chains are highly resilient. Ocean shipping has a wide range of ways to manage
        disruptions by changing the ways that they operate these ships.




1 Ocean shipping is concerned with the transport of tangible goods and commodities. In the following submission we do
not concern ourselves with the import or export of important intangible services such as education.
2 The rest was air freight. The aviation sector physically handled about 1.2 million tonnes of cargo with a value of about
$113.7 billion; about 0.07% by volume and 16.4% by value of all Australian cargo (i.e., all inbound and outbound cargo) was
carried by aeroplanes.


Shipping Australia submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience (2023).         Page 3 of 6
     10. These facts have been recognised by the Productivity Commission in its 2021
         Vulnerable Supply Chain report. Ocean shipping is highly resilient because of
         massive redundancy and diversification.
     11. Blockages of international sea-lanes have been portrayed by a wide-range of
         commentators as potentially posing severe problems for Australia, especially after the
         blockage of the Suez Canal by a large vessel in March 2021. However, evidence from
         recent history shows the exact opposite - blockages of international sea-lanes are not
         problematic for Australia. The March 2021 Suez Canal blockage did not put the world
         economy into a dive, nor did it have any noticeable effect on Australia. Industry
         analysts reported that the effect was absorbed by the world economy in about nine (9)
         weeks.
     12. Arguments about the alleged fragility of the maritime supply chain for fuel are greatly
         overstated as ocean shipping is highly resilient plus, the nature of the maritime supply
         chain results in massive diversification which means no one disaster or enemy action
         can significantly disrupt our fuel supply.
     13. However, blockages of Australian shipping channels and sea-ports could be
         devastating to the wellbeing of Australia and the economy of Australia as most of our
         major container sea-ports are regional monopolies that serve hundreds of thousands to
         many millions of Australians. If these seaports are damaged or blocked then that, in
         itself, could cause severe problems. If they are blocked just before, during, or just
         after a disaster, then that blockage could massively disrupt recovery and damage
         Australian resilience.
     14. Government communications failures during COVID: Official communications
         during the COVID pandemic were very poor. They were confusing, hard to find, hard
         to interpret, they changed too much and too frequently, and it was too difficult to stay
         current. In the whole-of-Australia COVID disaster, there were far too many changes
         communicated by too many government bodies far too frequently. Conversely, some
         bodies that were expected to produce rules did not produce any rules at all for a very
         long time which caused anxiety, frustration, and wasted costs.
     15. Unreasonable government intransigence during COVID: Governments across
         Australia were highly intransigent and caused a lot of harm. They did not adequately
         cater to the legitimate needs of the logistics and ocean shipping industries. Health and
         law enforcement professionals particularly were blind to - and unheeding of - the
         non-health risks of their decisions and rules even though they received adequate
         warning from bodies such as Shipping Australia.
     16. Coastal Trading (Revitalisation of Australian Shipping) Act 2012 (Cwlth): this
         Act hurts our disaster resilience because it reduces the ability to move vitally needed
         freight around the coast. The Coastal Trading (Revitalising Australian Shipping Act)
         2012 (Cwlth) has badly damaged the vitality of the Australian fleet. And, at the time
         of writing, this restrictive Act is causing suffering to Australians in the eastern
         Kimberley region of Australia as it prevents a vessel from the international fleet being
         hired to carry emergency aid to isolated communities.
     17. Proposed political fleet will likely fail and it could hinder disaster relief: the
         proposed national maritime fleet policy, the so-called “Strategic Fleet”, will likely be
         an expensive failure. At the time of writing, political inaction in shipping policy is



Shipping Australia submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience (2023).   Page 4 of 6
         causing suffering to Australians in the eastern Kimberley region of Australia. Creation
         of a political fleet will create more problems.
     18. The Productivity Commission and various other reviewers have repeatedly (at least
         eight or nine times) called for coastal shipping reform in Australia and the
         Productivity Commission has twice - in two separate reviews - pointed out that a
         national shipping fleet is bad policy.
     19. Australian industrial relations: the current landscape hurts our disaster resilience,
         and it will do so even more in the future. Australia’s current industrial relations
         landscape is now, and will increasingly in the near future, make Australia less
         resilient to disasters.


Recommendations
     20. Recommendation 1: the Committee should recognise in a statement that ocean-going
         shipping by the international shipping fleet is of vital importance to the well-being of
         Australians and to the Australian economy.
     21. Recommendation 2: that all Australian elected officials and all appropriate
         employees of the Australian Public Service that interact with the maritime freight-
         focused supply are directed to understand (via training) and to recognise the vital
         importance of freight to the economy of Australia and the wellbeing of Australians.
     22. Recommendation 3: the Committee should recognise that ocean-going shipping from
         the international fleet and Australia’s maritime supply chains are highly resilient to
         external shocks.
     23. Recommendation 4: the Committee should recommend that all appropriate decision­
         makers in government be advised that ocean-going shipping, and Australia’s maritime
         supply chains are highly resilient to external shocks.
     24. Recommendation 5: the Committee should recognise that blockages of international
         sea lanes are not as problematic as portrayed by a wide range of commentators and
         are, in fact, over-stated.
     25. Recommendation 6: the Committee should, however, recognise that blockages of
         Australia’s sea-ports could be devastating.
     26. Recommendation 7: the Committee should recommend that policy makers should
         ensure that the risk of harm of blockages in Australian seaports of access channels,
         turning basins and berths (potentially for long periods of time) should be greatly
         reduced and that policy makers should satisfy themselves that there are adequate
         preventative- and mitigating-risk management strategies in place.
     27. Recommendation 8: the Committee should recommend that current Australian
         policies of having regional monopolies so that one port serves a large region of
         Australia should be discontinued because of the risks of harm that blocking /
         damaging a single port poses, and that multiple alternate ports should be developed so
         that Australia does not have multiple regional monopolies.
     28. Recommendation 9: the Committee should conclude that seaborne imports of refined
         petroleum products are highly resistant and resilient to supply chain shocks. It should
         therefore recommend that there is no basis for government intervention in the
         maritime fuel supply chain on the grounds of risk management or for the prevention
         of disasters, or for resilience against disasters.


Shipping Australia submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience (2023).   Page 5 of 6
     29. Recommendation 10: the Committee should recommend that there be an inquiry
         (independent of the political parties) into government actions, decisions, and
         intransigence in respect of the maritime and landside supply chains during the recent
         COVID disaster with a public report tabled in Parliament so that lessons may be
         learned.
     30. Recommendation 11: the Committee should recommend that a less piecemeal
         approach needs to be taken when adopting new rules or amendments and that Plain
         English guides to interpretation should be issued simultaneously with new rules or
         amendments.
     31. Recommendation 12: the Committee should state that it is sensible and reasonable
         for elected officials and public sector officials to consider the advantages and
         disadvantages of a proposed course of action (or inaction), taking into account the
         likelihood of harm, the magnitude of harm in the event of its realisation, and the
         potential mitigation of and recovery from harm after it has occurred.
     32. Recommendation 13: the Committee should urge that an objectively reasonable risk
         management approach should be adopted for the control of diseases (or any other
         natural disaster) by elected and public service officials and this should include
         officials assigning an adequate weight to the economic importance of ocean-going
         shipping and to the whole logistics chain, to ensure that Australian's vital interests are
         - and continue to be - met.
     33. Recommendation 14: the Committee should recommend that the Coastal Trading
         (Revitalising Australian Shipping) Act 2012 ought to be repealed as it is evident that
         that Act has not achieved its objectives and it weakens Australia’s disaster resilience.
     34. Recommendation 15: the Committee should recommend that work on the national
         maritime fleet policy proposal should be stopped immediately and ought not to
         continue.
     35. Recommendation 16: the Committee should recommend that the aspects of the Fair
         Work Act (as amended) that do now, or will in the future, give power to the trade
         unions to carry out simultaneous industrial action across multiple employers across
         the waterfront or along the supply chain should be revoked immediately.
     36. Recommendation 17: the Committee should recommend that notice periods before
         industrial action can be taken at waterfront companies should be extended to 21 days.
     37. Recommendation 18: the Committee should recommend that enterprise bargaining
         on the waterfront should be subject to specific time frames and that the parties should
         be required to settle their dispute in the Fair Work Commission if they cannot settle
         the dispute by themselves within that time.
     38. Recommendation 19: the Committee should recommend the prohibition of any
         industrial action that prevents the working of sub-contracted vessels at a separate
         terminal.
     39. Recommendation 20: the Committee should recommend a review be carried out into
         the fact that the trade unions have been found to be carrying out go-slows and
         imposing productivity caps on the waterfront; that an economic impact analysis be
         carried out into that specific form of industrial disruption, and to provide
         recommendations as to how to remedy the situation.
SUBMISSION CONCLUDES


Shipping Australia submission to the Senate Select Committee on Australia's Disaster Resilience (2023).   Page 6 of 6
