Thankyou for this opportunity to submit my experiences as a pharmacist to the Panel

I have been retired for approximately 4 years now after 42 years as a retail pharmacist both in my
own business and finally working for other businesses.

Looking back over the past four years I cannot believe what our governments and health regulators
have imposed upon Australians and their health care professionals in the name of a Public Health
Emergency of International Concern .This was declared by unelected beaurocrats .Our government
took no pause to consider options for their response with policies rushed in to place. The top down
heavy handedness without any concern for the effects of these policies on the public has been
extraordinary and mystifying. Fear mongering from Govt, regulators and the MSM with all singing
from the same song sheet, has cancelled any questioning of their health policy settings for this
PHEIC.

Lockdowns, masking, school closures, have been extraordinarily damaging to mental health family
wellbeing and children's development and education .There were for example definite alternatives to
school closures. In the 1919 influenza epidemic they at least valued child welfare and continued
school in the outdoors .

These same children also will now bear the staggering costs sustained from these Govt policies and
subsequent vaccine rollout.

The vaccines, which are actually a gene based therapy ,were rolled out to all Australians without any
consideration for their benefit or relevance to different age groups. This is extraordinary and reckless
especially given their rush to market with unclear trial results from manufacturers. No risk benefit
information to adult recipients who lined up to be jabbed, so as to keep jobs and to be able to travel
and resume their social lives. What about the children ? Was jabbing them even necessary? Silence?

AHPRA s' mantra and TGA - the most important thing-nothing must hinder the rollout! Yes all
without safety data so Australians could make informed decisions.

Australia's pandemic response has been a complete debacle and such behaviour by Govt, must never
be repeated in Australia .

ABS statistics reveal unexplained uplift in excess deaths post vaccine. Is it actually safe and effective
as stated by every talking head? Are we brave enough to have an honest look at such things?

May I suggest that there needs to be nothing short of a Royal Commission( Our PM promised a Royal
Commission leading up to the election) into the Govt response to this PHEIC over these last four
years with full exposure and accountability .

It is noted that HNZ Data has come to light through the courage of a NZ whistleblower statistician. He
is now a criminal because he couldn't sleep at night having seen huge red flags in the post vaccine
data . The red flag was increased deaths! Are we going to even have a look at our data? For example
ABS data does show an alarming uplift in excess mortality since the vaccine rollout.

Thankyou for this opportunity to have input to your Inquiry.
