           Australian Government
           Department of Social Services




Submission to
Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
The Department of Social Services
December 2023
Introduction
The Department of Social Services’ mission is to improve the wellbeing of individuals and families in
Australia. The Department was active in immediate and ongoing responses to the COVID-19
pandemic (the pandemic) for areas including social security, families and communities, and people
with disability.

Financial support for individuals
In 2020 and 2021, a number of temporary payments were introduced to provide additional financial
assistance as part of the economic response. These included the Coronavirus Supplement (initially
$550 a fortnight, later adjusted to $250 and $150 a fortnight) which, from 27 April 2020 to 31 March
2021, provided over $20 billion to over 3 million Australians affected by the economic impacts of
COVID-19. Four additional Economic Support Payments of up to $750 and $250 were made to
eligible recipients. In March 2020, National Health Emergency Crisis Payments (a supplementary
payment equivalent to one week’s income support) were made to people on income support who were
required to isolate, including because they contracted or were caring for someone who contracted
COVID-19.
A number of temporary adjustments to eligibility criteria for working age payments were made
during the pandemic. These were given effect through temporary changes to primary legislation
which allowed the Minister for Families and Social Services to change, through disallowable
legislative instruments, the eligibility criteria and payment rates of income support payments. This
process enabled rapid changes to income support settings in response to the pandemic. Changes
included pausing the assets tests, adjusting a number of waiting periods for income support payments,
relaxing the partner income test, and ensuring portability extensions were available for pensioners
and other income support recipients overseas and unable to return home.
Mutual obligation requirements for all job seekers nationally, including Disability Employment
Services (DES) participants, were suspended at key periods in line with National Cabinet’s agreed
COVID-19 National Roadmap.
The frequency of reporting on numbers of income support recipients was increased which provided
real-time information to Government to inform policy decisions about income support and monitor
the effect of the measures.
Changes to evidentiary requirements for claiming income support payments supported individuals to
be connected with payment faster but also removed some integrity checks which contributed to a
decline in the accuracy of payments made. While understood as a risk at the time COVID-19
response measures were implemented, this highlights the importance of considering a range of
priorities and risks when adjusting or designing social security payment settings in an emergency.
The existence of new payments such as the COVID-19 Disaster Payment, Pandemic Leave Disaster
Payment and JobKeeper created some confusion around payment eligibility and reporting
requirements for claimants and recipients. This demonstrates the need for very clear communication
with the community when payments are created or changed rapidly and without normal consultation
processes.

A timeline of major changes to Australian income support settings during the COVID-19 pandemic is
provided at Attachment A.


                                                                                                     2
Community supports
Between March 2020 and January 2022, the Community Grants Hub delivered 8,950 COVID-19
related grants and grant variations. These grants had a total value of $ 1.33 billion. Of this, over
$210 million in grants was administered by the Department.
Flexible grant management arrangements were introduced to address the impact of COVD-19 on
delivering activities. These included flexibility in milestone reporting and debt recovery, acceptance
of electronic signatures, and extensions to deliver activities.
The rapid implementation of initiatives meant support was provided promptly, but many of the grant
agreements were not established with standard reporting requirements which later led to issues with
monitoring performance and needed to be rectified through variations to agreements. Additionally,
many funded providers have an expectation of continued funding of initiatives that were implemented
during this time.
The sector-led National Coordination Group (NCG) was established in April 2020 to monitor the
impact of the pandemic and provide advice to Government on where additional Community Support
Package (CSP) funding is most needed. During the peak of the pandemic, the NCG met on a
fortnightly basis. Currently the NCG meets on a monthly basis and is in place until 30 June 2024.
In March 2020, an additional $200 million was announced under the CSP to support charities and
other community organisations which provide emergency, food relief and financial counselling
services to respond to demand as a result of COVID-19. Details are provided in Attachment 2.
In 2020, $130 million was provided by the Commonwealth to the states and territories under the
National Partnership on CO VID-19 Domestic and Family Violence Responses to invest in services to
support women and children who were experiencing or at risk of violence during the pandemic.
The National Redress Scheme temporarily waived the requirement to have statutory declarations
signed and witnessed, and also adopted alternative ways to establish identity, including over the
phone rather than in person.

Support for industry and businesses
In April 2020, DES providers were offered an advance payment equivalent to six weeks of service
fees, providing fiscal security in the immediate term. DES participants were able to have unlimited
employment breaks instead of the usual 4 weeks in a 13 week period to ensure DES providers had an
incentive to continue supporting participants in an employment placement. The minimum 8 hour
requirement for DES participants to access ongoing support was removed, allowing flexibility for
participants who could not work their normal hours due to COVID-19.
$24.5 million was made available to Australian Disability Enterprises (ADEs) to help organisations
transition to new opportunities to create jobs for people with intellectual and cognitive disabilities.
More than $3 million was used to extend the Supported Wage System (SWS) supplementation to
37 ADEs who used the SWS.
The Sector Readiness Fund (SRF) trial, aimed at growing the social enterprise sector, changed design
to include SRF Resilience Grants of up to $30,000 to eligible social enterprises experiencing financial
stress due to the pandemic.




                                                                                                          3
COVID-19 response for people with disability
From March 2020, a Departmental team was in place to coordinate the portfolio response for people
with disability. This expanded in August 2021, including the appointment of a dedicated Senior
Executive Service Band 1 lead. In response to the Omicron wave, a Portfolio COVID-19 Taskforce
was officially stood up in January 2022 to support Department of Health-led activity concerning
vaccination and other COVID-19 responses for people with disability.
The Department worked closely with Health to support communication with people with disability
related to COVID-safe behaviours and vaccination access. This included the secondment of
communication staff to the Department to Health, assisting with the production of accessible
information, activating all available portfolio communication channels, provision of COVID-19
information and support for vaccination appointments through the Disability and Carer Gateways.
The Department led five text message campaigns where information on vaccination was sent directly
to recipients of carer payments and the disability support pension (DSP).
At the start of the pandemic, there was no vaccination data for the disability cohort. Further, there is
no complete data set that identifies all people with disability in Australia, including within the health
system. The absence of specific data meant the vaccination response for people with disability was
not able to be identified or measured beyond the designated cohorts of NDIS participants and DSP
recipients (approximately 850,000 people aged over 18). To go some way to address this, the
Department worked with other government agencies to develop a methodology to use linked, de­
identified disability data to identify cohorts and areas of low vaccination, allowing for some targeted
action. More complete data sets or better ways to connect data sets across government systems could
go some way to ensuring people with disability are more visible in a health emergency.
The pandemic highlighted gaps in knowledge and understanding of roles and responsibilities of the
states and Commonwealth in keeping people with disability safe in a health emergency. The
Department established open lines of communication on disability across Commonwealth agencies,
with the states and territories, and with disability service providers to clarify responsibilities, align
responses and share information efficiently.
This aligned response ensured a focus on increasing the vaccination rate of people with disability.
NDIS participants living in shared residential accommodation were a priority cohort in ‘Phase la’ of
the vaccination rollout. However, in July 2021, only 57.7% of NDIS participants living in shared
disability accommodation and residential aged care had received one dose of the vaccination. By
October 2021 this had increased to 81.6%, and by March 2022 this had increased to 88.3%, with
86.2% of NDIS participants living in shared disability accommodation having received at least 2
doses.

Support measures were implemented to help keep people with disability, and those who care for
them, safe from COVID-19 including support payments for eligible disability workers to assist NDIS
workers and participants to be vaccinated, distribution of Rapid Antigen Testing kits to NDIS
providers, and the implementation of the Disability Worker COVID-19 Leave Grant.
It was integral that people with disability were included in the development of CO VID-19 responses,
including communication material. The disability community is comprised of a diverse group with
many varied needs and the response needed to be tailored for different parts of the disability



                                                                                                            4
community. The Department supported Health in connecting with the disability sector, and the
COVID-19 Disability Advisory Committee, set up by Health, has provided invaluable advice on
where the gaps are in the targeting of effort, which groups are missing out on support, what kind of
support is required, and the need for accessible communication products.
In 2021, the Disability Royal Commission reviewed the Commonwealth’s response to COVID-19
for people with disability, and called out a number of shortfalls particularly in the vaccine rollout.
This was especially the case in residential disability settings where the pandemic highlighted
longstanding disparities between health services delivered within the Aged Care sector and the
disability sector. The Department responded to identified shortfalls within its remit, and continues to
work with Health to drive the response to further identified shortfalls.

Conclusion
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia, the Department has provided financial support
for individuals, support for communities, and support for industry and businesses. The Department
has been instrumental in the Commonwealth’s COVID-19 response for people with disability and
continues to engage with key stakeholders across the Commonwealth, state and territory jurisdictions
and the disability sector on vaccination acceleration activities and supports for NDIS participants,
their support workers, DSP recipients and the broader disability cohort. The Department has regularly
reflected upon lessons learned throughout the pandemic to consider ways in which the response to
any future health emergency could be improved.




                                                                                                          5
Attachment 1 - Timeline of major income support changes over the COVID-19 period




                                                                                                                                 Nil rate period extension

                                                                                                                                     JobSeeker and YA job seeker - $300 income free area


                                                               JobSeeker partner taper rate - 25c                                                JobSeeker partner taper rate - 27c

                                      Early Childhood Education and Care Relief

                                                                                       Early release of Superannuation

                                                 Employment Separation Certificate, provision of payslips and relationship confirmation waived

                               Simplified ID and proof of tenancy requirements, payment from date of contact

                                                               National Debt Pause (VIC extended to Feb 21)

                                                                 Ordinary Waiting Period, Seasonal Work Preclusion Period, Newly Arrived Residents' Waiting Period waived

                                            Assets Test and Liquid Assets Test Waiting Peri od waived

                                                                      JobSeeker and Youth Allowancejob seeker-sei f-em pl oyed and sole trader temporary eligibility


                                                                JobKeeper phase one                                               JobKeeper phase two                          JobKeeper phase three

                                                                  $550 Coronavirus Supplement                                $250 Coronavirus Supplement                   $150 Coronavirus Supplement




             March 20      April 20        May 20        June20                       August20      September 20 0ctober20     November20 December20           January21      February21   March 21      April 21
 Feb-20                                                                                                                                                                                                             May-21

          Economic Support Payment                        EconomicSupport Payment                                            EconomicSupport Payment                       EconomicSupport Payment


 This graph shows changes to Australian income support settings during the CO VID-19 pandemic, including those for which the Department
 of Social Services does not hold policy responsibility.

 SOURCE: Ferlitsch, P. (2022). Changes to Australian income support settings during the CO VID-19 pandemic. Crawford School of Public
 Policy. Australian National University.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
Attachment 2 - Community Support Funding Package
An additional $200 million under the Community Support Package (CSP) was provided to support
charities and other community organisations which provide emergency relief, food relief and
financial counselling services to respond to demand as a result of coronavirus. This was broken
down as below:


•   $97 million for Emergency Relief (ER) nationally from 2019-20 to 2021-22 including
    o      $72.7 million for ER across Australia; and
    o      $24.3 million for the Australian Red Cross (ARC) to deliver ER and counselling support
           to temporary migrants.
•   $27.1 million for Food Relief providers to support ER providers from 2019-20 to 2021-22;
•   $20 million, across all Financial Counselling organisations, including the National Debt Helpline to
    increase the capacity of financial counselling sector, from 2019-20 to 2020-21;
•   $20 million to increase access to No Interest Loans from 2019-20 to 2020-21;
•   $10 million in 2020-21 for the Temporary Visa Holders Experiencing Violence Pilot to support
    women on temporary visas affected by domestic and family violence access social services, legal
    assistance and migration support. This package included:
    o      $6.5 million for the ARC to deliver targeted support to women on temporary visas
           experiencing violence who may be unable to access social services and welfare payments due
           to their visa status; and
    o      $3.5 million for 9 Community and Women’s Legal Centres to help women access legal
           assistance and migration support.
•   $300,000 to deliver secretariat support for the National Coordination Group (2019-20 to 2020-21).

In November 2022, the remaining $25.6 million from the CSP was re-profiled to be made available for
allocation across 2022-23 and 2023-24 in response to major economic crises.




                                                                                                       7
