          The Commonwealth Government should represent the Australian voters and citizens. They
should look after their health and safety, but it appears they failed to do this effectively during
COVID-19 and gave away their authority to state leaders who made autocratic instead of democratic
decisions which influenced all Australian's mental health.

         I chose to use my freedom of choice and not have the vaccination. Having previously being a
registered nurse, I believed the vaccines were a new experimental type and the side effects were yet
unknown. Due to fear propagated by the media and government, many of my friends and family
decided to have the vaccination. Their main reasons were because they wished to keep their job,
they wanted to dine out with their families, or they wanted to travel. They were manipulated into
taking an unknown, untrialed substance. Some of my family and friends are still suffering the side
effects of these injections, (cardiac problems/falls)

        In my case, I was unable to see my family in another state. Being^^^^| I was not able to
attend my usual walking group nor mix with fellow^^^J I had emails pushing me to become
vaccinated and suggesting I would pass Covid onto them. The discrimination was rife. I think it is the
first time I had heard of being contagious without having any signs or symptoms of a disease. I was
unable to sit on the grass for a picnic when others were given permission; I was unable to go into a
restaurant when others were given permission. I was unable to go into the swimming pool; I was
unable to attend meetings at the RSL. It was an isolating experience which I will never forget My
friend was reprimanded by police for buying a coffee from the shop to drink whilst walking home.
My friend was in Austria during the WW2, and it brought back tearful memories of the German
Gestapo. She had come to Australia for freedom.

Some of my grandchildren have suffered mental health issues with anxiety since the schools were
closed and they had to return wearing masks. All I know is that our freedoms were trampled on. We
were not allowed to make our own health choice. We were all forced to wear masks and it is still
mandatory in some health settings despite some evidence to the contrary.

I am hoping this inquiry can bring better responses from both federal and state governments in the
future.
