                                                                     Paul Jackson




14th December 2023


Covid 19 Response Submission


To The Enquiry



I am writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects of Australia's response to
the COVID-19 pandemic. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry's goal to improve
pandemic preparedness, there are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny.

As a small business owner for over thirty years in the same industry Covid 19 was the single
most devastating horror show my business and my industry has ever witnessed. Our industry
watched on as an average 25% of business and turnover simply disappeared and evaporated.
Specifically, I am speaking of the coffee roasting industry supplying cafes with their coffee
beans. After 30 consecutive years in the industry, I could be classed as an experienced
authority on this industry.
From the outset of Covid in March 2020 the Governments response was so strategic it could
not have been a mistake, but a deliberate massacre on every possible level from public health,
business destruction, to the very undermining of the very fabric of society our government is
sworn to serve. What a joke!



Concerns Over Specific Pandemic Measures

Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had
significant impacts on individual freedoms and social dynamics. These measures, often
invasive, warrant a detailed review to assess their necessity, effectiveness, and
proportionality.

Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, and psychological impacts of lockdowns
and curfews have been profound. An evaluation of these measures is essential to understand
their long-term effects on Australian society and whether they were the most appropriate
response.
Communication Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use of fear in
public health messaging. It's important to analyse whether such communication strategies
were effective or whether they contributed to unnecessary panic and distress among the
public.

The COVID-19 pandemic saw unprecedented measures that, in many cases, tipped the scales
toward what many felt was a near-tyrannical overreach of government authority.

The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their action with ATAGI to silence Drs and the
misinformation and blatant condemnation around proven early treatment methods such as
Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin. Clear sabotage!
And who decided to do the opposite of the 2019 Aust. Health Management Plan for
Pandemic Influenza, which prophetically described why all of the actions the Govt did take
would not work?

Our civil liberties and freedoms, which we hold dear, were suspended under the guise of
public health.



Concerns Over the Composition and Scope of the Inquiry

Panel Composition: The appointment of Inquiry panel members who have previously
expressed support for certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity and
impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel members who have expressed support for such measures
should recuse themselves.

Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One of the most
significant omissions in the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion of actions taken unilaterally by
state and territory governments. These decisions, including state-imposed lockdowns, border
controls, government misinformation programmes through the media were pivotal to the
nation's pandemic response and should be included in the Inquiry.



The Need for a Comprehensive Review

While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above­
mentioned areas are not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all
aspects of the government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope.



Conclusion

This submission represents a collective call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation
into Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast
aside with fearmongering as it was by Australian governments during the pandemic.
This watered down, token scope of this enquiry solidifies the clear and ongoing government
corruption and cover up of the deliberate destruction of life on an apocalyptic scale. The
deaths and injuries from the government’s own public accessible web site data prove that
these mandated bioweapons were and still are neither safe or effective. The truth of which
will indeed come out as it is all over the world as more and more whistle blowers convicted
by conscience come forward with damming evidence that will see those responsible held to
account.

We urge the Inquiry to consider these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the
safeguarding of Australian lives, values and liberties.

Sincerely

Paul Jackson
