Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
To covi d-19inquiry@pmc. gov.au ph
From Alexander Cornell Stewart, |

INDEX                 1      My background
                      2      Summary of this Submission to this Inquiry
                      3      My comments under headings of Terms of Reference

              My background from which I have perspectives:
            Four-year Engineering Degree at Sydney University with 1st class Honours and University
            Medal, therefore I am capable of objectively evaluating scientific & medical data
            My 53 years of work included 23 years in Public Services at senior levels, e.g. it was I, as
            Chair of the intergovernmental committee, who chose 91 to be the octane for unleaded petrol
            I have been staffer to six MPs (3 Canberra, 3 NSW) including a Minister and a Senator.
            I understand medical issues more than an average Engineer, because
            (a) I did much research of medical literature after
            (b)|                                                                is a world expert, having
            published over 100 papers on DNA/mRNA. He told me 3.5 years ago that the rushed mRNA
            vaccines would not work against CO VID, but might work after FIVE more years of research.
            (c)^^H after gaining his PhD 2006-2012 in Europe in cancer research worked 2016-18 at
            MIT Boston under 2 Professors, one of whom is on the board of Moderna, a vaccine maker

2             SUMMARY of this SUBMIS SION
2.0   I regret that this is not a Parliamentary Inquiry. A media release stated it as Within the
“Department ofPM and Cabinef. The Human Rights Commissioner wrote of her disappointment
2.1           In my opinion, the lessons learned are
        •     The TGA behaved badly. After 29/7/2021 its vaccine weekly reports that I read became
               far longer but progressively worse, even perverting data - refer to dot points 1 & 4 above
        •     that our freedoms and human rights were un-necessarily trampled upon, contrary to our
               Constitution, by misguided MPs and health officials who have not been held to account
        •           Health policies were implemented without valid scientific basis or modelling.
        •           Lockdowns failed to save lives, as per various studies
        •           Vaccine manufacturers falsified or hid their data and behaved unethically in other ways
        •           COVID vaccines have done more damage, including excess deaths, than lives saved.
2.2           My views of how to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics are that
    > Governments should not act contrary to our Constitution, about which most MPs are ignorant
    > Prohibiting Australians departing our country was tyrannical and should never be done again
    > Ignore the W.H.O. - health policies should be fully debated in OUR sovereign Parliaments
    > We need a proper Inquiry with far better Terms of Reference than this Inquiry.
    > “Heads should roll” (metaphorically) - i.e. health officials (e.g. the TGA) and MPs who
      acted without valid scientific basis should be held to accountability, and demoted.
    >   Restore scientific integrity, so that reliable peer-reviewed research is the basis of policies.
    >   Vaccine passports, and indemnity granted to vaccine manufacturers should be abandoned.

3             MY COMMENTS under headings of the Terms of Reference 1 to 9
3.0      I regret that this is not a Parliamentary Inquiry, but was announced in a media release
https://www.pm.gov.au/media/improving-future-preparedness-inquiry-response-covid-19-pandemic
to be “an independent inquiry ...to consider Commonwealth responses” supported by “A
Taskforce within the “Department ofPrime Minister and Cabinef'’
Human Rights Commissioner,wrote in The Australian on 28/9/23:-                              . it is
disappointing that these wider concerns are not mentioned in the COVID-19 Inquiry announced
by the PM ... human rights are not in the terms of reference ... the human cost of the pandemic ...
whether restrictions imposed were necessary and proportionate ... missed opportunity is the
exclusion of actions taken unilaterally by state & territory gov ’ts ... means key aspects such as
lockdowns, state border closures A vaccination mandates - unexamined.'’'’ (my emphasis added)
1.  Governance - by the Commonwealth, state and territory governments, national governance
    mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian
    Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.
The National Cabinet was a bad idea, without any basis in our Constitution; therefore it is a sad
fact that State & Territory Premiers often acted unilaterally, based on flawed advices & politics.
There was too little debating of issues in Parliaments about policy options, with the narrow
opinions of health officials being too easily accepted by Ministers e.g. NSW’s Brad Hazzard. The
leaders of 7 Parties in the NSW Legislative Council wrote to the NSW Governor deploring that
Parliament had been suspended 24/6/2021, something that did not happen in WW1 or WW2.
The Indemnity for Vaccine Manufacturers was introduced by federal Health Minister Greg Hunt
by media release on 28/8/2021, and it should be abandoned, because no manufacturer of any
products should be exempted from being sued in a court using testable evidence. Vaccines did
not prevent infections, nor prevent transmission, as proven by papers, e.g. vaccination was shown
to be correlated with more infections ww^^edra^r^o^e^^^^^^202^^^n2273274yl.
An analysis of Israeli data on 18/8/202                                                  to
describe vaccines as ^a catastrophe’’ due to “an increased risk of disease among the vaccinated”.
 “Heads need to roll” (metaphorically!) - i.e. health officials (e.g. the TGA) and MPs who acted
without valid scientific basis should be held to accountability, and sometimes demoted, because if
they continue unreprimanded, then they will behave similarly when the next pandemic arrives.
Health officials were dishonest in their published statistics, as proven in a 29/8/22 article at
www.academia.edu/85597731/Data_reportmg_flaw_in_plam_sight_distorting_COVID_19_mortality_statistics
The TGA behaved unethically. After admitting in July 2021 that vaccines had caused 407 deaths
in its report www.tga.gov.au/periodic/covid-19-vaccine-weekly-safety-report-29-07-2021 then the
quality of its reports that I read became degraded, and they subsequently claimed only 8 deaths.
         | one of the world’s top experts in DNA/mRNA, retired recently after 40 years in
Germany to a house he bought a few years ago in NSW. During the lockdowns in Europe, he was
told that everybody should work from home for 3 months. Rather than use the internet from his
home a few km away, he considered that he could work from his other home 12,000km away.
This meant that he had to suffer the nightly TV news here. At the end of the 3 months, he angrily
said to me                                                            was a fool, and anybody
who listened to her was also a fool. He pointed out that she had done no research, had published
no papers, and had attended none of the international conferences for years as he had.
2. Key health response measures (e.g. COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies
    such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).
There was no reliable evidence to support the wearing of masks, let alone to make it compulsory.
I am an expert in WH&S, and the imposition of masks & vaccine mandates in workplaces was
unsupportable using the normal methods of rational analysis, as argued for example by a Fair
Work Commissioner at www.fwc.gov.au/documents/decisionssigned/html/2021 fwcfb6015.htm
Lockdowns were illegal, contrary to our Constitution, which includes Magna Carta:- ‘Wo free
man shall be seized, imprisoned, ... outlawed, exiled or ruined in any way, nor in any way
proceeded against, except by the lawful judgement of his peers and the law of the land.”
The Taw of the land’ can include reasonable and proportionate requirements to quarantine persons
AFTER they have been reliably diagnosed as having an infectious disease.
It was faulty policy to rely solely on an unreliable PCR test result for quarantining & border
closures. Centuries of experience in handling epidemics were discarded - never before in human
history have people with no symptoms been quarantined. This should be restored as future policy.
                                                           | said that it should not be used to
diagnose CO VID. The USA FDA admitted that the PCR test was inadequate on page 40 of their
document of 21/7/2021, also publishing a withdrawal of approval because it does not adequately
do ^differentiation ofSARS-COV-2 and influenza viruses^W
                 ■of Uni of Queensland wrote in the Australian on 1/1/2022 that vaccine mandates
are a ^dangerous path towards segregation and despotism'’’ and that there is no evidence that
unvaccinated people are more likely to transmit COVID than the vaccinated.
Vaccines have done far more damage, including excess deaths, than lives saved. For example, the
                                                            | paper in June 2022 analysed data
from the Pfizer & Moderna Covid trials, and concluded that vaccines are more likely to put you in
hospital with a serious adverse event than keep you out by protecting you from Covid.
3. Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example mental
    health and suicide prevention ... and access to screening and other preventive health measures).
Government measures to print money did support some businesses in economic terms, but did not
mitigate the horrendous human impacts of denying people jobs on the basis of vaccine mandates.
One of the most prestigi ous medical institutions in the world (John Hopkins University) published
a review of 24 studies and concluded that lockdowns failed to save lives, but imposed costs; it
also concluded that “many COVID- 19-assigned deaths were misdiagnosed". Also |
             | concluded that “harm from lockdowns was 282 times worse than the benefits".

Many people in Australia have been injured by COVID 'vaccines' or have died. Over 1,000 real-
life cases can be found at www.forestofthefallen.com and at www.jabinjuriesglobal.com
4. International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including re international border
    closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic use).
PM Scott Morrison implemented a tyrannical and North-Korea type of restriction on Australians
leaving our country; this is a separate issue from quarantine requirements on people coming back.
5. Support for industry and businesses (e.g. supply chain and transport issues ...specific industries).
It is an ongoing tragedy that vaccine mandates have caused an increase in ‘excess deaths’, and
limits in supply chains. Governmental support cannot make up for the human rights violations.
6. Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).
Government measures to print money did support some individuals, but did not mitigate the
horrendous human impacts of denying people jobs on the basis of vaccine mandates. E.g. the
Seventh Day Adventist school in Kempsey suffered the loss of over half of its staff who objected
to mandatory vaccines. The bad effects on education of children go beyond any gov’t support.

7. Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing &
   homelessness measures, family & domestic violence measures). - - No comment.
8. Mechanisms to better target future responses to particular populations (... First Nations peoples etc).
Future responses need to be based on scientific data, proper modelling, full debates in Parliament
and wide consultation among various communities, rather than stifling varying points of view.
I have many Aboriginal friends. While at University I coached Aboriginal high school students.
As Road Safety Manager in the NSW Roads & Traffic Authority (1990-97) I created the very first
two Aboriginal Road Safety Officer jobs in Australia. I condemn the stifling of questioning in
remote communities in the NT and Queensland by over-zealous health officials and politicians.
                                                  5023 Submission to COViD Inquiry 15dec23.docx
