       COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 INQUIRY SUBMISSION - MCKECHNIE




30th December 2023.


Dear Sirs/ Madam,

Ref: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Inquiry, Submission - McKechnie.

I herein provide my submission as a member of the public in relation to the terms of
reference issued for the inquiry. My name is James McKechnie (profession: engineer)
and I reside in^^^West Australia. My middle son^^^^^^^^^fcontracted Covid
19 in April 2022 following the opening of the WA border.

   | has not yet recovered and is diagnosed as a long covid sufferer. He never finished
the last 2 terms of year 12 school in 2022, he has not left the house (aside from many
doctor and medical checks) since. He was dux of his school^^^^^^^^^^^^for
almost every year and was a prior school champion athlete winner. (I only say this to
provide context that he was a very active member of school). He is currently a lost asset
to Australian society, the economy and to family life, not to mention his self-esteem and
his life.

Not enough is being done for him and other fellow sufferers. It would appear from the
government stance that we are over Covid and onto 'the next thing'. That is however for
many, not possible.

My submission in the context of the terms of reference and making recommendations
for improved management of future similar events, is as follows:

1.       Governance. Advisory bodies.
Responsibilities between states and commonwealth was unclear. For example, provision
of quarantine centres should have (in my opinion) been provided by the
commonwealth. Other countries provided fast and effective lower cost larger detention
facilities such as disused military installations. The state run hotel system was muddled
and expensive. Better preparedness in this area is recommended, taking lessons from
other countries.
2.       Key Health Response.
The medical steps taken by the government has been shown by many experts to be
seriously flawed and corrupt. There are systemic issues with our medical institutions



                                                                                          1
       COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 INQUIRY SUBMISSION - MCKECHNIE


that need to be corrected. Commercial interests of large corporations exerted a
disproportionate influence on medical journal publications (publishing what was in their
interest and discrediting competing medicines), media and governments, including the
Australian government. This played a large role in determining our government's
response to the pandemic, which was based mainly on rushed through large scale
vaccination programs that have since been shown to be unnecessary, expensive and
dangerous. This response subsequently led to lockdowns, permanent business closures,
significant job losses and unnecessary death and prolonged illnesses (such as long covid
and long vax). On top of that we are now seeing additional evolving medical impacts
such as significant reduction in female reproductive health from the mRNA vaccines.

The use of (repurposed) existing available medicines was discredited and shunned
through early major public misinformation campaigns via all major media outlets
(internet, tv and papers). Distinguished medical experts who bucked the trend were
labelled as 'quack doctors', 'anti-vaxxers' and many lost their jobs or shut-up and carried
on silenced. It was manipulation and discrimination at a criminal level and was the norm
through media outlets, the third Reich would have been proud. Its more the pity since
Australian researchers were some of the first to publish their findings of the
effectiveness of a repurposed medicine, Ivermectin (Monash University, April 2020),
however Ivermectin was later dismissed and banned as a dangerous drug.

I was one of the millions of Australians who believed the press and government advice
and was one of the first to be vaccinated and ensured all my children were too. I was
dismissive of those at work who were anti-vax. I considered myself better than those
who had not vaccinated or were thinking about it. How wrong I was. My trust in the
government (and myself) will never be the same again. Please prove me wrong by taking
my submission seriously.

Within the inquiry please try and explain how a 2015 WHO 'drug of the year' and listed
by WHO as an 'essential medicine' was suddenly rebranded in 2020/21 as dangerous
and banned? The answer I expect you to confirm is attributed to corporate
misinformation campaigns, fear mongering and pharmaceutical company influence on
governments and medical institutions, including ours. These events, dates, references,
and facts are well laid out ir                   best-selling novel, 'The War on Ivermectin'
(ICAN Press). All panel members of the government should read this book before the
inquiry starts. The book is an eye opener and demonstrates a corrupt, dishonest, and
broken medical system that needs correction. The use of Ivermectin in countries that
did not follow WHO recommendations fared much better. Very likely my son|
would be living a normal life if this pre-existing medicine was allowed to be used,
instead of ridiculed and, unbelievably - banned by the Australian government. These



                                                                                               2
       COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 INQUIRY SUBMISSION - MCKECHNIE


behaviors are typical of a third world dictator not a 'freewheeling liberal democratic
country' we call Australia.

The use of masks and Ivermectin, together with quarantining was all that was needed to
control the virus. This would have not only been a lot less expensive, but also resulted in
less loss of life and normal lives for many who are still struggling post the virus.

3.      Broader health support services.
For the many (200,000 plus in Australia) the support services for long covid patients has
been very limited. In WA there was a single long covid clinic at Fiona Stanley hospital
staffed by one physician to support the state! This was and continues to be clearly
disproportionate to the issue.
4.      Financial support.
We are fortunate to be financially independent and able to support our son through this
trying period. However, there are many people who have been left without support.
Long covid had no existing standardized test for medical diagnosis and therefore does
not exist on Medicare plans. This prevents access to insurance and financial support.
This aspect needs to be urgently addressed with future responses allocating greater
support to follow on illnesses.
5.      Mechanisms to better target future responses.
See above. I recommend the inquiry devotes significant time and resources reviewing
the influence pharmaceutical companies exerted on our government policies that were
not in our best interest and resulted in billions of dollars of unnecessary cost and
suffering. If I was to single out one mechanism to better target future responses, it
would be for an improved system of checks and balances of provision of government
advice, ensuring greater transparency:
    -       Mandate conflict of interest statements on all expert advice,
    - Educate government departments on bias and introduce a system of evaluation
        to check unhealthy bias.
    -       Include an independent assessment of all government advisers.
    -       Install a robust system for logging all perks, donations, and sponsors of research.
    - Introduce a system of review of decisions made by ex-government advisers to
        future positions. Ensure this is a routine assessment with potential fines.

Increased transparency (including I might add all commonwealth government inquiry
team members), is desperately needed to avoid similar costly mistakes.

Yours sincerely,

James McKechnie, MSc CEng MIMMM



                                                                                           3
