Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Key health response measures:
“Sunlight, Temperature, and Humidity”
In January 2019, a document quoted Prof John Nicholls of HKU stating that "Three things the virus
does not like: 1. Sunlight, 2. Temperature, and 3. Humidity" - Nicholls had studied Coronaviruses
for nearly 20 years, since SARS-Cov-1.
Judging by the responses to Covid, there's scant evidence that government paid any attention to this
existing body of knowledge about Covid:
    1. Aged people were kept isolated in Aged care facilities, which are Air-conditioned (cool and
       dry) and bereft of sunlight.
   2.      High fatality rates occurred on Cruise liners, again air-conditioned.
   3.      By contrast, fatalities amongst self-supporting aged people were negligible.
   4. People were locked down indoors, when the best response would have been to be outdoors,
      in fresh humid air and sunlight. Prof Nicholls revealed later that the half-life of Covid is
      about FOUR MINUTES in sunlight.
   5. Vitamin D deficiency is highly correlated with severe Covid. We need approximately 10
      minutes of full sun per day, on average to get enough Vitamin D. YET WE WERE
      LOCKED INDOORS.
   6.      Aged people TYPICALLY have a Vitamin D deficiency.
Banning of effective medications such as Ivermectin and Hydroxychlorquine (HCQ):
    1. The TGA normally only reviews drugs sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, therefore it
       is unlikely that Vitamin D or HCQ, for example would be reviewed. This is a significant
       flaw in the process. Using only patented medications is quite simply ridiculous.
   2. The TGA needs to explain why HCQ was banned. HCQ is an Ionophore which promotes
      intracellular Zinc, which in turn prevents viruses from replicating. That is, ALL VIRUSES.
      Hundreds of studies have shown the efficacy of HCQ. https://c 19hcq.org/
      https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4182877/
   3. In August/September 2021 India was on the verge of a major catastrophic outbreak and they
      rolled out Ivermectin in conjunction with another Ionophore (I forget which) and the
      outbreak simply halted. Why did the Australian Health authorities not show any cognisance
      of this result? These medications saved MILLIONS OF LIVES.
   4. Dr Peter McCullough, a highly respected US Cardiologist who treated thousands of Covid
      patients personally and who testified to US Congress, counselled that “you have to hit they
      virus with everything you've got”. Not just so-called “vaccines” but also other medications.
      Numerous studies show the efficacy of Vitamin D, HCQ, Ivermectin, etc.
   5. Bottom line is that the Australian drug regulator has proven itself to be totally incompetent
      at designing a drug-based pandemic response - and doctors outside the bureaucracy were
      muzzled into silence by the AHPRA.
   6.      The Health bureaucracy cannot be trusted to design a competent response to a pandemic.
   7. The Medical profession is the ONLY profession where professional debate is regulated by
      government. This is is^^^^
How Dare you regulate our GPs and medications when you are so thoroughly incompetent?
Failure to advise effective countermeasures:
    1.     Spending time in the sunlight. Sunlight kills Covid directly and indirectly.
    2. Exercising regularly and reducing obesity. Obesity has a signifuicant correlation with Covid
       hospitalisations. ONE THIRD of Australians are obese and another third are overweight.
    3.     Measuring and reducing Vitamin D deficiency
NONE of these were advised by Health authorities. They are incompetent.


Development of Covax-19 by Prof Petrovsky at Flinders University.
    1. Prof Petrovsky developed the first Covid vaccine in the world. He had completed Stage 2
       trials and needed funds to perform Stage 3 in an overseas country.
    2.     If the CW Government had partnered with Prof Petrovsky:
    •      Australian lives could have been saved
    •      Australia could have established a vaccine industry
    •      Australia could have assisted poor countries to save lives, earning diplomatic Kudos
    •      The economy could have been opened up sooner, saving businesses and jobs
Instead, he was just ignored.
With barely $lm contributed by the public (less than 0.00001% of the Covid response expenditure),
he was able to complete Stage 3 trials.
https://www.gofundme.eom/f/Support-for-Vaxines-Covid-19-vaccine-initiative


EVEN THEN his vaccine did not gain approval in Australia.
UNBELIEVABLE.
If you care, and if this inquiry isn't a “whitewash” then please watch his interview with competent
journalist Sharri Markson:
https://rumble.com/v2jdeyw-professor-nikolai-petrovsky-in-retrospect.html
Authoritarian measures:
   •       Sacking of health workers who refused to take experimental “vaccines”. The mRNA
           “vaccines” DO NOT prevent transmission. In fact if they reduce symptoms then they
           probably increase transmission (British study). Thus there was NO JUSTIFICATION (not
           even in a^^^Jsystem) for vaccine mandates.
           https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=696772402374219
           https://www.rebelnews.com/sacked_paramedics_stand_united_against_vaccine_mandates
   •            Refusing transplants to unvaccinated patients. This is quite simple |
   •            Use of the Personal Electric Health record to record “vaccination” status.
   •       Use of Home Affairs to combat “misinformation” coupled with censorship of medical
           experts (with threat of disbarrment by the AHPRA) is quite simply


Misinformation from Government:
   •            The claim that prior infection from Covid doesn't convey immunity is quite simply false.
   •       I saw studies which showed that antibodies to SARS-Cov-1 were still present in people 20
           years after infection.
   •       Prior infection to Human Coronavirus (20% of common colds) also creates a level of
           immunity to Covid-19
           https://www.nih.gov/news-events/nih-research-matters/genetic-variant-associated-absence-
           covid-19-symptoms
   •            Failure to investigate the excess deaths in Australia, e.g. via Coroner's inquests.
   •            In 2021, excess deaths increased despite no Covid in the Community!
   •       The 40% increase in severe stroke cases occurring in NZ and Australia.
 All deaths, Australia, 3 January 2022 - 30 April 2023 vs baseline benchmarks

        4,500

                      Excess deaths
        4,250


        4,000


        3,750
    w
   JZ
   ro
   05
   Q    3,500


        3,250


        3,000


        2,750




                 • baseline range   — 2023 deaths   - - 2022 deaths   — baseline average deaths
LAST BUT NOT LEAST


Vaccinating children:
   •   CDC data showed that severe side-effects from mRNA “vaccines” outnumbered Covid
       Hospitalisations by 400-to-l for “health individuals under-40”.
   •       Thus there is NO JUSTIFICATION for “vaccinating” children.
   •   The correct reponse for schoolkids, for example would have been the same as Chicken Pox
       (aka Varicella), i.e. stay at home for 7 days and then come back to school. Kids who had
       recovered would thus contribute to herd immunity. But one of the lies propagated by
       government was that prior infection did not convey immunity. Whoever propagated this lie
       should be charged with any resultant excess deaths.


The credible response to Covid, given the facts known at the time, was for infected individuals to
isolate and to protect vulnerable people (those with co-morbidities, the elderly, diabetics, morbidly
obese and those with auto-immune conditions). No-one else should have been subjected to any
restrictions whatsoever. Vaccinating children, in particular, is in my humble opinion an atrocity.


Please restore my faith in government by taking these issues seriously.
Regards,
Andrew Franz
