                    Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
         to inform recommendations that aim to improve Australia's preparedness
                                   for future pandemics

I am a recently retired^^^^^^^^^^^and I was placed in the unenviable position when,
to keep my job, it was mandated that I take the vaccine. Moreover, my husband had to go
into Age Care because of a diagnosis of dementia, and I would not have been able to visit
him if I were not vaccinated. This is an affront to the freedoms we have always enjoyed in
Australia. We should have freedom of choice, yet during the COVID pandemic, we lost those
freedoms. The country was locked down, and vaccines and masks were mandated. I could
not attend weekly worship, nor could close family members, who live intrastate and
overseas, visit me. I missed seeing my grandchildren for two and a half years. I am thankful
for this opportunity to make recommendations regarding the COVID-19 response to the
pandemic and I sincerely trust that the Panel will seriously consider recommendations put
forward.

My strongest recommendation is that there ought to be a Royal Commission into the
COVID-19 response by the Federal and State Governments so that a proper investigation
into that Response can be made. This may be the only way that the public will find out what
was going on behind the scenes and why so many wrong decisions were made that led to
disastrous results.

I want to outline the following particular concerns regarding the Government's response to
the COVID-19 pandemic:

   1. Corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts. The Panel must inquire into the
       vaccine debacle and whether they were correctly approved and administered. Why
       was the focus on vaccinating a healthy population, instead of researchers and
       pharmaceuticals focusing on treatments for those who were affected by COVID-19?
       Who is making profits from vaccine procurement and contracts? Has government
       spending on procuring vaccines, PCRs and RATs been audited?
   2. Mask mandates. There is some literature available regarding the effectiveness or
       otherwise of masks. More research needs to be done. However, when mask
       mandates were introduced, our freedoms disappeared. The Panel needs to inquire
       into the scientific effectiveness of masks, the social, emotional and mental impact of
       mask-wearing, financial costs, and the environmental impact of millions of masks
       being thrown into landfill.
   3. Lockdowns. Lockdowns became the go-to solution for areas where there were
       COVID-19 cases. Yet, invariably this caused many negative effects on the populations
       having to endure lockdowns. Mental health issues became evident as people
       suffered from anxiety, loneliness, loss of jobs, loss of social interactions, grief issues
       not properly resolved, and funerals and other important social events were cancelled
       or postponed. There were more social ills apparent because of lockdowns, than
       would have been the case if people were allowed to go about their normal activities.
       Lockdowns also impacted faith communities, who were no longer able to meet
       together to worship.
4. Vaccine mandates. These mandates took away our freedom to have autonomy over
   our own bodies. The mandates made it virtually impossible to continue with normal
   life, if we chose not to be vaccinated. Many teachers, myself included, health
   professionals, and many other occupations, had to go along with the mandated
   vaccines, simply to ensure that they could continue with their jobs. Furthermore,
   people who chose not to be vaccinated were not able to visit loved ones in Aged
   Care facilities. I was able to continue to visit my husband in Aged Care, but a dear
   friend of mine could not visit her mother who was in Aged Care because she chose to
   remain unvaccinated. My friend also reported to me how she felt like a second-class
   citizen because many places were closed to her as she was not able to produce a
   vaccine certificate. It felt like Australia was becoming an apartheid state, divided into
   the vaccinated and the unvaccinated. The Panel needs to investigate the
   effectiveness of mandated vaccines. Are personal rights and personal freedoms being
   sacrificed to a good cause or not?
5. Media Censorship and Official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the
   ability of vaccines to block transmission. The media were very slanted in support of
   the vaccine. They were obviously towing the Government line. Moreover, the media
   contributed to what seemed a deliberate scare campaign to pressure the public into
   being vaccinated, by the daily bombardment of death figures associated with COVID.
   However, very little information on the adverse affects of the vaccines was made
   public. In previous years, we had never heard of the death toll attributed to
   influenza, for example, which were recorded but not advertised; yet every night,
   COVID death figures flashed across our television screens. This needs to be
   investigated further, especially the biasness of our national broadcaster the ABC.
   Taxpayer dollars are poured into that entity, but it constantly provides bias views
   only. How much media censorship was involved across all media channels? The
   public have a right to know and the Panel should investigate it further.
6. Vaccine injuries. I understand that at least one state government (Western Australia)
   has released a report into the adverse side effects of vaccines in recent years. They
   found an alarming increase with the COVID vaccine. According to a report that I have
   read, Pre-COVID there was on average about 2 adverse side effect in every 1000
   vaccines administered. With the COVID vaccine, it spiked up to 46 adverse side
   effects in every 1000. My apologies if these figures are not correct, but when I tried
   to verify these figures, I could not locate the report on the internet or in the WA
   Health Department. Has the report been silenced? The significant incidence of
   adverse effects is alarming. Is anyone investigating this? Is there too much money
   being made by the big pharmaceuticals, so they have no interest in investigating this
   further? The Panel needs to examine the influence of the big pharmaceuticals in the
   Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
7. Silencing of doctors. I have heard of cases of whistleblowers losing their jobs, or
   being threatened with de-registration, or being de-registered. This is very concerning
   as we expect our doctors to provide us with accurate information on any matters
   regarding our health. How much influence do the big pharmaceuticals hold over our



                                                                                            2
          health professionals? Did the government place pressure on doctors to "tow the
          line"?
   8. Has there been any investigation into the unexpected rise of deaths across the whole
          Australian population? Was this related to COVID-19 or the vaccine? What are the
          ongoing effects of the virus or the vaccine? Heart issues, breathing problems, coughs,
          fatigue, etc. Further investigations are required.


I have many concerns about our government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The
Panel may be limited in its scope to make investigations into these matters. There is a lot
that needs to be explored further. I would recommend to the Panel, that, given the many
issues surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, and the many concerns and even
misinformation that may be out there, it is imperative that a Royal Commission be made set
in place. As a member of the public, I can only make suggestions and recommendations, but
any recommendations made by a full Royal Commission would hold considerable weight. I
strongly urge the Panel, after its initial examination and review of the government's
response to this pandemic, that it too would recommend a Royal Commission into this
matter.


I apologies that I have not been able to provide more evidence on my matters of concern,
but that should not prevent the Panel from carefully seeking out all the evidence that is
available. Disappointingly, and concerningly, I could not find on the internet previous articles
that I had read about COVID-19. Have they been deleted? I do thank the Panel for this
opportunity to make this submission and I sincerely trust that my concerns will be taken
seriously and will be considered, as an indication that when the government sets up a Panel
for review, they are serious about receiving and considering every submission that comes
their way.




                                                                             13 December 2023




                                                                                               3
