13/12/2023
Submission to Australian Politicians remembering all levels of government are responsible.

I have a conundrum that is so very ridiculous that I find it difficult to believe government at all levels
can actually be so very naive.

My partner and I are not vaccinated the reason for this will be made clearer later.

We work very hard in our local community, volunteering in many capacities, my partner has even
won a Tasmanian state award for her volunteer work within disabilities and the education of people
with disabilities.

We are also both studying at Utas and are also now lepers asDirector, Safety and
Wellbeing infers in his email to all students who have not informed Utas of their vaccination status
or if unvaccinated can no longer attend campus. This is medical discrimination, public health has
become a joke.

Most of our volunteering work is now done locally within the Central Highlands, we are involved
with^^^|through^^^^^^Hboth of us setting up the Op Shop OUSE, assisting with programs
where we can and also being part of programs, we also contract at times to teach cooking which we
both have more than 40 years' experience each and qualifications not in just commercial cookery
but also vocational training.

Before the official opening of the Op Shop both of us volunteered 2 weeks prior on a Saturday in
freezing cold and at times drenching rain and strong winds, weeded, and reorganised and replanted
all the front garden                  with 4 trips to the tip with rubbish. What we now find as we
cannot volunteer to do this is a terrible weedy overgrown mess of a garden, what a disappointing
waste of our time it would only have needed 15 to 30 minutes a fortnight to keep in check,
        needed to organise this, shameful.

 Now there is the issue of mandating the experimental synthetic mRNA gene therapy on everybody
who is a volunteer in the community. The conundrum here is that we cannot work as a volunteer
anymore because we will not adhere to mandates that will seriously affect our health, but can go to
^^^^^^^and participate in any program whether or not we have had the experimental synthetic
mRNA gene therapy. Mixing with the same people as we would when volunteering. (Conundrum yes,
we think so)

                                                                           Health Service
seems to have her hands completely tied behind her back with her head in the sand regarding this
major issue, obviously it is a ludicrous situation and losing volunteers like this is absurd they work
very hard, and it costs them at least $4.00 per hour out of their own pocket just to volunteer
(Volunteering Tasmania), ^^^obviously is in fear of losing^flposition ifquestions anything to
do with mandates. Both Craig Farrell and Rebecca White attended the opening of the Op Shop, and I
would say to them that you must keep your minds open to the fact that this mandate is very
damaging and dividing to all in our community as we have already suffered by losing our GP of at
least 14 years because of it, now we divide friends, family, and colleagues in a small community.
Contact^^Jlet her know that this is just prejudicial being unable to be a volunteer unvaccinated
but OK to come to any gatherings and programs                       it is inequitable, immoral, and
completely unethical.
Note all of you in charge and responsible, if you have children, grandchildren or great grandchildren
like us shame on you for letting them live in fear and damaging their young bodies irreparably.




A

                                 Op Shop opening Allacia and Jannie with Rebecca White

This is just pure medical discrimination, we both work very hard to be healthy, strong and have both
recovered from very serious disease in the past, we know what effort it takes to be disciplined
enough to do this, we enjoy our health and fitness with remissions in our diseases and continuing,
and we love working in the community. We need rights to self-ownership, personal liberty, and
bodily autonomy. Our governments at all levels and especially the Health Minister Jeremy Rockliff
Deputy Premier, Minister for Health, Minister for Mental Health and Wellbeing, Minister for
Community Services and Development, Minister for Advanced Manufacturing and Defence
Industries have decided our individual rights, no longer matter for "the greater good" and the truth
is deliberately hidden to make the people naively comply to something they certainly would not do if
they were aware of the truth.

This all comes under your watch^^^^^^^^f you will be responsible for the outcomes. I
personally know of one teenager suffering heart issues after the experimental mRNA gene therapy,
another young woman with a serious anaphylactic reaction and made to have a second shot and an
older woman with breathing difficulties for weeks after these unethical and useless inoculations and
this in a very small community. The amount of serious adverse reactions/side effects are
monumental and never seen before in all previous vaccines added together, including many deaths
and serious neurological damage often in young people. They are sacrificing their future for a useless
experiment.

We are both studying at UTAS and have also been informed that we cannot attend on campus unless
we have had at least a double experimental synthetic mRNA gene therapy inoculation, which is likely
to be updated to a third experimental mRNA gene therapy so called booster inoculation, all of which
clearly are not working at all given the spread of the latest mild version of Covid.

What is oozing, creeping, lurking, deceiving, and never sleeps is the disease of despair that the
media, governments, tech giants, even WHO fostered relentlessly on us all for 2 years, destroying
the mental health of millions and also their physical health with the useless but mandatory mRNA
gene therapy which forced many to adhere otherwise they lose their employment and basic ability
to support their family (This is an absolute disgrace).
Our population is now completely addicted to the fear, this equates to the reliance and allegiance to
the moron media (corrupt to the bone with censorship). Plus, double experimental mRNA gene
therapy inoculations and boosters, more boosters and more boosters that just do not work but
makes big pharmer, tech companies, corporate criminals and the ever more wealthy unbelievable
profits. Each inoculation will affect a person's health negatively especially the immune system and
major organs, heart, brain, kidneys, and lungs, even your liver but at least that organ may be able to
recover somewhat, the heart and brain not at all, it is permanent damage being inflicted.
Face it, you have learned little, and it is you...that ruins it for the rest of population and the future
generations who will be permanently physically scarred by this experimental mRNA forced
inoculation, forced mask wearing and forced lockdowns.
The hysterical response to this entire man-made viral infection, (US and China intimately involved
with creating) was based on stubborn adherence to the WHO and CDCs wild predictions of fatality,
the insane belief, especially in the US and a few other formerly free nations (including Australia),
that locking down and testing healthy people mandating experimental mRNA gene therapy and
wearing face masks was a good strategy, rather than truly trying to protect the frail and vulnerable
which sadly the world has not achieved at all.

Extreme wealth and technology encourage megalomania by those few who entice government to
their ends rather than the autonomy of its people. Who will ever say the government recruits the
wisest and most honest advisors to examine information? Yet they should know how to find them.
Most will toe the line or are bought as this is the mindset they have adopted. Fear of being alone in
their stance is another issue. But things are changing due to attitudes and behaviors changing. Our
belief is that those who have been captured but not corrupted, they will in time speak out if not to
relieve their conscience but to offer some resistance to the wealthy corporations that threatened
their life or family, their income, their status and then they supply donations that flow into political
parties who toe the line and universities for research and development so they to toe the line.

Self-preservation in the light of continuous and obvious stupidity is a good reason to resist. But it
begins with a mind set and this is occurring in the attitudes and information coming from those who
were asleep before and for others who knew the courage to speak out even though they were then
destroyed by censorship, mandates for this experimental mRNA inoculation by the government that
made even our own respected GP here in the Central Highlands have to resign for his strong belief
and knowledge that this was a very dangerous medical procedure that would have lasting negative
outcomes for all who were manipulated with propaganda and fear mongering to accept it.

We want to volunteer but the powers that be prevent us;
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^asmanian Health Service, Central Highlands Council, State politicians
(especially Health Minister Jeremy Rockliff), Federal politicians including the opposition. Let guests
and visitors in with or without vaccination but do not let volunteers into the same place unless
double vaxed.

Read the following and weep, this was planned and all for power and money.




The overreach by government must never happen again

Jannie Fahey and
