          COVID-19 Response:
   An Event Industry Perspective

                 Submission to the
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




                       Prepared by

                    Simon Thewlis

                    December 15 2023




                      event
                         pty ltd     I



            STRATEGY - CREATIVE - EXECUTION



             PO Box 7044 Melbourne VIC 3004

                    www.event.com.au
COVID-19 Response                                                  An Event Industry Perspective
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                        December 15 2023


INTRODUCTION

It is impossible to properly summarise the experience of the last few years of an industry as large
and complex as the Event Industry in just three pages. An industry that was hit harder by the
pandemic than nearly every other industry. And, an industry that received practically no targeted
support from the Federal government.

The Event Industry is a very large and complex industry that is still not at all understood at the
Federal government level - as shown by current government policy.

The Event Industry largely doesn't exist in government policy as the government only values events
where they generator hotel room nights or side trips to the penguins for the tourism industry or
where an event is considered to be an Arts event. The vast majority of events - and hence work
done by the Event Industry - is neither of these things.

It is important to note that the Event Industry and the tourism industry - while there is a very modest
amount of overlap - are completely separate and different industries with different purposes,
economic and operational models, and people and businesses. This was shown beyond any doubt
whatsoever by the Victorian parliamentary inquiry that look into support for the Event Industry and
the tourism industry. In fact, that inquiry's final report was divided into separate halves - one for the
Event Industry and one for the tourism industry - as they were so separate and different.

I believe I'm uniquely well placed to comment on the impact of the pandemic and the government
response to the pandemic having spent most of my waking hours for a couple of years coordinating
the Save Victorian Events campaign on behalf of much of Victoria's Event Industry. A campaign that
actively involved over 2,000 people from more than 900 businesses from right across the Event
Industry.

As part of this I dealt with a vast number of people right across the Event Industry both in Victoria
and more generally around the country; with many people who worked for the Victorian and Federal
governments; and with numerous members of the Victorian and Federal parliaments.

Save Victorian Events was the only group to do regular detailed surveys of the Event Industry during
the pandemic. Some of the top line survey results are attached and we can make more of the
detailed results available to the inquiry. We also heard and collected the personal stories of a huge
number of people from across our industry.

I have written extensively about the Event Industry since the beginning of the pandemic, so the best
way to explain the Event Industry - i.e. what it is, what is does, who is part of it, etc.... - and our
experience during the pandemic without going beyond three pages is to link the Inquiry to
documents that have already been produced and are in the public domain. These include:

VICTORIAN PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY INTO THE COMMONWEALTH GAMES

The Victorian 2026 Commonwealth Games was the main form of support the Victorian government
announced for the Event Industry following the worst of the pandemic.




Event Pty Ltd                                                                                             Page 1
COVID-19 Response                                                 An Event Industry Perspective
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                   December 15 2023


My submission to the current Victorian Parliamentary Inquiry into the Commonwealth Games
provides a very detailed description of the Event Industry and of our experience during the worst of
the pandemic, as well as the current situation in our industry.

My submission can be found here as submission 9:

https://new.parliament.vic.gov.au/get-involved/inquiries/inquiry-into-the-2026-commonwealth-
games-bid/submissions

SENATE INQUIRY INTO THE COMMONWEALTH GAMES

I've included a link to my submission to the current Senate Inquiry into the Commonwealth Games
for completeness. Noting that most of the information within this submission is already included in
the submission to the Victorian Parliamentary Inquiry.

However, this submission also makes mention of one of the core issues the Event Industry faced -
which is it is not included in Australian Bureau of Statistic data as a lot of the Event Industry comes
under the nondescript ANZSIC code 7299 other administrative services not elsewhere classified.
A code we share with supermarket trolley collection service, meter reading services, and many
other unrelated industries.

https://www.aph . gov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=7861b9f1-ba3c-4f81-8db7-
aa83c8650054&subld=747017

REVIEW OF THE CREATIVE INDUSTRIES

The Event Industry is arguably the largest of Australia’s creative industries and brings together more
creative disciplines than almost any other industry. A lot of the Event Industry has long been
included in the ABS statistics and Federal Department of the Arts / Australia Council statistics about
the 'creative and cultural industries' - yet traditionally most of our industry has been excluded from
policy and support from this part of government. This was the case during the pandemic and
remains the case today.

My submission to the recent Federal Government review of the 'creative industries' covers this in
detail.

https://www.arts.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/ncp1139-simon-thewlis.pdf

SENATE INQUIRY INTO COVID INSURANCE FOR EVENTS

During the pandemic the Senate held an industry into the issue of Covid insurance for the Event
Industry. The submission I wrote on behalf of Save Victorian Events works through the issue of
insurance for Covid-19 related risks for the Event Industry. Insurance - including for Covid-19 related
risks - is still a huge issue for the Event Industry.

https://www.aph . gov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=914c510a-8e73-497c-9112-
cba757cca3ad&subld=716679

It should be noted that the Victorian government did announce in November 2021 a $230 million
Covid realted insurance fund for events. However it really only covered situations where the



Event Pty Ltd                                                                                      Page 2
COVID-19 Response                                                 An Event Industry Perspective
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                       December 15 2023


government lockdowned the Event Industry and at the same time the Victorian government
announced that there would be no more government mandated lockdowns.

VICTORIAN PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY INTO THE EVENT INDUSTRY

In early to mid 2021 the Victorian Legislative Council held an inquiry into support for the Event
Industry. This inquiry provides a lot of good information including personal testimony from Event
Industry people. However, it should be noted that this Inquiry was held before the worst of the
situation in Victorian's Event Industry.

Much of the documentation for this Inquiry - including submissions, transcripts and reports - can be
found here:

https://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/eic-lc/inquiries/article/4633

The Save Victorian Events submission can be found as submission 7 at the above link or here:

https://www.parliament.vic.gov.au/images/stories/committees/SCEI/COVID-19_Tourism/Submissions/
S007_Save_Victorian_Events_Redacted.pdf

UPDATES TO MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT

A very good source of information about what happened during the pandemic with the Event
Industry is the update emails that were sent by Save Victorian Events on a very regular basis to the
members of Victoria’s Parliament and the Victorian members of the Federal Parliament between
early 2021 and early 2022.

These update emails are very detailed and provide a contemporaneous account of what happened
to our industry as well as the views of people within our industry. Some included numerous direct
quotes from members of Victoria’s Event Industry.

Our tracking showed that these emails were very widely read by members of parliament.

I would be happy to make these emails available to the Inquiry.

SUMMARY

Again, it is impossible to even start to outline in just three pages what has happened in the Event
Industry over the last four years, or in the couple of years where I spent nearly every waking hour
working in support of the Event Industry.

Noting also, that it is still a really challenging time in the Event Industry so it is not easy to divert time
to compiling detailed documents that may not be read.

I'd be happy to share more of what we experienced and learnt over the last four years with the
Inquiry. It would be a travesty if the mistakes and experiences of the pandemic - as they relate to
the Event Industry - were not learnt from.

And certainly from a Federal Government policy perspective, nothing has changed for the Event
Industry since the beginning of the pandemic.




Event Pty Ltd                                                                                           Page 3
COVID-19 Response                                            An Event Industry Perspective
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry          December 15 2023


APPENDIX - EVENT INDUSTRY SURVEY RESULTS
Some of the top line Save Victorian Events survey results:

• February 8 2021 survey results

• August 30 2021 survey results

• January 18 2022 survey results




Event Pty Ltd                                                                           Page 4
                          Final Survey Results:
      The Devastating Impact on Victoria's $10+ billion Event Industry

IMPACT ON VICTORIAN EVENT INDUSTRY COMPANIES
By companies we mean event organisers and the vast array of suppliers to Victoria's
event industry such as: AV, audio, lighting, theming, expo, marquees, catering, etc...

Income from April to December 2020 was down 85%
Forecast income for January to June 2021 is down 76%
Forecast income for July to December 2021 is down 67%
(compared to the same period in pre-Covid years and excluding government support)

94% of companies are currently receiving JobKeeper

Receiving JobKeeper has enabled:
38% of companies to keep all staff on
47% of companies to keep some staff on

If JobKeeper ends in March:
43% of companies will need to let staff go
An additional 40% of companies will potentially need to close their business

So 83% of companies in Victoria's event industry will be severely affected by the
ending of JobKeeper - if it is not replaced by some other form of financial support.

IMPACT ON FREELANCERS AND CONTRACTORS
These are the highly skilled professional service providers such as producers, production
managers, stage managers, technicians, risk managers, lighting designers, etc.... who
play such a critical role in the planning and running of events.

Their income from April to December 2020 was down 89%
Forecast income for January to June 2021 is down 80%
Forecast income for July to December 2021 is down 67%
(compared to the same period in pre-Covid years and excluding government support)

77% have had to seek work outside of the Event Industry to survive.

69% will need to get jobs outside of the Event Industry if JobKeeper ends in March.

IMPACT ON VICTORIAN EVENT INDUSTRY WORKERS
Only 27% of people who were working full time in the Victoria's Event Industry
pre-Covid are still working full time in the Event Industry.

35% of people who were working in Victoria's Event Industry pre-Covid are no
longer working in the Event Industry at all.

The survey was conducted by Save Victorian Events from February 3rd to 7th with more than
360 businesses and more than 200 individuals from Victoria's Event Industry responding.
                           Contact: help@savevictorianevents.com.au
  The State of Victoria s Event Industry
                                  Survey Results - August 30 2021

   Earned Income - Businesses
   Only 19%                              Only18%              Only 34%
   of normal income                      forecast income      forecast income
   for Apr 20 - Aug 21                   for Sep - Dec 21     for Jan - Jun 22

   Cancelled Events and Projects
   34%                                            61%
   have had ALL cancelled                         have had MOST cancelled
   until the end of the year                      until the end of the year

   Losses Due to Recent Lockdowns
   29%                                   35%                  20%
   of businesses                         of businesses        of businesses
   lost $50-200k                         lost $200k-$1m       lost over $1m

   Impact on Workers
   Only 40% of permanent staff are still employed
   Only 16% of the highly skilled freelancers,
            contractors & casuals are still employed

   Reduced Business Capability
   Only 52’% of their pre-pandemic capability and
                                     capacity to deliver events & projects

   Business Survival
   Only 27'% likely to survive to the end of the year
   26% unlikely to survive                        47% not sure if they will

help@savevictorianevents.com.au      SAVE VICTORIAN EVENTS             (410 Victorian responses)
              The Impact of Omicron on Victoria’s Event Industry
                                                       Survey Results - January 18 2022

     Companiss: Earned Income
     Apr 20 - Aug 21 Sep - Dec 21                                                   Jan-Mar 22                              Apr-Jun 22
     Down 81 %                              Down 66%                                Down 68%                                Down 58%
     (Actual. Pre-Omicron)                  (Actual)                                (Forecast)                              (Forecast)
     Earned income of Event Industry companies compared to the same period of a normal year. Noting this is an average so many have earned a lot less or more.



     Freelancers & Contractors: Earned Income
     Apr 20 - Aug 21 Sep - Dec 21       Jan-Mar 22                                                                          Apr-Jun 22
     Down 84%                               Down 65%                                Down 71%                                Down 55%
     (Actual. Pre-Omicron)                  (Actual)                                (Forecast)                              (Forecast)
     Earned income of our vitally important Event Industry freelancers and contractors compared to the same period of a normal year. Again, this is an average.



     Current Outlook for Events i n 2022
     January & February Events                               March & Apr I Events                                    May to December Events
     46% - Cancel                                            22% - Cancel                                             9% - Cancel
     28% - Postpone                                          30% - Postpone                                          12% - Postpone
     16% - At Risk                                           36% - At Risk                                           44% - At Risk
     Current expected outcome for events. Hence the urgent need for financial support and measures to help restore confidence in events.


help@savevictorianevents.com.au                            SAVE VICTORIAN EVENTS me                                                               (410 total survey responses)
