             Booster Vaccine Causes 1 in 35 To Have Myocardial Damage



A thorough and independent Swedish study of 777 people after^^^^^
boosters by the Department of Cardiology Institute of Basil, in study showed
it caused a 5.1 percent increased myocardial damage in the blood AND 1 IN
35 (ONE IN THIRTY FIVE) HAD MYOCARDIAL INJURY/DAMAGE. And many
suffered adverse myocardial events after exercise, whilst others warned of
this didn't exercise and survived better. It was also more prevalent in
women than men. And, the Brownstone Institute found that both the Pfizer
and Moderna vaccines had DNA contaminations which can cause DNA
damage.

So why is the Australian Government in bed with a supporting               here
in Aussie to produce MRNA vaccines for most vaccinations used in Aussie.
Money?, you bet, whilst they lie how well they are protecting Australians,
whilst increasing the ill health of Australians and need and use of doctors,
specialists, hospital and everything associated with medical health.

Want the visible and verifiable facts, watch this 18 minute video by^^^^H
               Copy and paste the following link into your browser and click on
skip adds:



Not so cheers
So this is what Australia signed up for
Inbox

 00:09 (8 hours ago)




No consulting. No oversight. No release to public of any information. Every single politician in
Australia
who voted yes to this legislation needs to be fired... As in fired into the sun!

WHO New Health Regulations




          WHO New Health Regulations




Attachments area
Preview YouTube video WHO New Health Regulations
08:40 (0 minutes ago)




Oh well, I guess someone had to take control and responsibility of
de-population, whilst supporting the ongoing expansion of ill
health, to support the medical health and foods industries growth
of multi trillion-dollar profits. So, WHO better than the CORRUPT
WHO, primarily controlled by billionaires and money-making power
brokers, BECAUSE, they have TOTAL DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY,
CANNOT BE SUED, like our countries governments and
organisations can.

Maybe, I should let it go, because after all, we have overpopulated
the world,       her resources and are killing the planet, primarily
killing motne^ature which is the only thing the world survives
on. So maybe it’s not such a bad thing? But do we all have to go
through the exfreme pain of all the ill health and pay so dearly from
the hip pocket for that luxury?
Not so Cheers

E-mails monitored by Kasperski and Malwarebytes
The Long Sad U.S. Corrupt History Of Vaccines and Deaths from
the Spanish Flu to Corvid for Money, Power & Control AND since
1986 U.S. Vaccine Companies cannot be sued, so why are we
following them?


In a recent podcast, Joe ROGAN interviews Robert Francis
Kennedy Jr.—the son of former U.S. attorney general Robert F.
Kennedy and nephew of former President John F. Kennedy—is an
attorney, environmental and anti-vaccine activist, and syndicated
talk radio host. He is a co-founder and former president of
Waterkeeper Alliance, an organisation monitoring rivers and
waterways and suing polluters, including many on the Hudson
River in the U.S. which became so polluted, kilometres caught fire
and had no fish in them at all, fortunately it has since recovered as
a result. He and his organisation have accessed all the studies and
all available data and results on everything covered naturally, as if
you are going to litigate successfully as he has done against
government agencies, big pharma’s and large corporations, you
have to be right. His litigation success record has brought about,
over the last 18 years, there is no one that he has wanted to
challenge in a debate that has been prepared to do so. He is now
going to run for the next presidency, let’s hope he wins and still
lives, however no doubt the money-making power brokers won’t
allow that to happen.
I have done my best to summarise the verifiable facts discussed in
the podcast below this to make it easier. If you wish to listen to it
yourself, you need to have at least the free Spotify version to view
the podcast and it is 3 hours long but very worthwhile.



SUMMARY:
1932 Mercury was added to vaccines primarily by Big Pharma’s
such                   as a preservative and adjuvant which is a
toxic substance to enhanced the vaccines immune response.
Mercury is 1,000 times more toxic than lead. Hence, the vaccines
have been causing autism and many other life destroying illness
and health issues especially for children, crossing the brain barrier
and causing inflammation. In recent years Mercury has been
removed from most of their vaccines but replaced with aluminum,
which has the same effect.
Mass independent statistics in the U.S. showed (1:37) One in 37,
children had some form of vaccine injury. In the U.S. the
vaccinations for youth grew to 72 vaccines.
In Australia it is already up to more than 50. Fortunately, in
Australia at least prior to 2021, Australian vaccines where all made
the old-fashioned way with an inert form of the virus and/or a non­
replicating spike protein, unlike the new MRNA vaccines for Corvid,
(with exception ofstill made the old-fashioned way) with
the MRNA spike proteins crossing the blood brain barrier, which
enters every organ in the body and lacks the targeting ability to
only kill virus cells, hence it can attack healthy cells as well. The
worry now is that Australian Government has partnered with
^^■to produce MRNA vaccines for most health conditions
and childhood vaccinations, beware. Back to the U.S. info:
In the U.S. the 1986 Vaccine Act, Vaccine Companies cannot be
sued. Hence since then Vaccine Companies, did not have to bother
about rigidly and thoroughly safety testing their products.
KENNEDY showed a power point video on what they knew about
vaccines damage to                     (Recent U.S. Chief Health
Officer through the Corvid pandemic etc) and others. He then
challenged^^^|to show any study showing proof of safety
testing on any vaccine, prior to licensing.          looked through a
stack of books from NIH (National Institute Of Health), but could not
find anything. So, KENNEDY and a partner sued NIH. About a year
later NIH finally came back with a letter stating that there is none.
KENNEDY was involved in many cases of suing large companies
and instrumentalities including the huge               organisation re
poisons includingand                                  ready corn and
other legumes, wheats, barleys etc., then being sprayed directly on
the crop, cause celiac disease to rapidly increase along with many
other illnesses including John Hopkins Lymphoma.
Auto immune diseases have blossomed out of control because of
the aluminum (now replacing the mercury) in vaccines, both highly
toxic, causing allergies leading to infections and inflammation.
Along with many other toxic substances in air, water and products
eaten and used etc., the U.S. has the highest chronic disease levels
of any country in the world.
Re the new MRNA Corvid Vaccines. A Cleveland Clinic study
showed that it offered some protection for the first two months, but
then wanes rapidly into the negative efficacy especially after 7
months, and without bolstering your immune system gives the
vaccinated up to 3.5 times the risk of suffering illness than people
who are unvaccinated. Even                        the then head U.S.
Health Officer, in an earlier statement did say that it could make
you more susceptible to Corvid and inflammations. Many studies
clearly show vitamin deficiency causes metabolic and immune
deficiency, ie. Estimated between 70 and 90% of people are vitamin
D deficient.
It also covers some of the same ground re the lies about the
Chinese Wuhan Institute leak of Corvid supported by U.S. complicit
in funding of gain of function with Bat viruses namely Corvid and
        lied about it. Together with Interviewer Joe ROGAN, they
cover taking anti inflamatories and vitamins to bolster the immune
system to deal with corvid, flu etc., instead. It is very hard for a
virus or bacterial infections to kill a truly healthy person, but some
bacterial infections have a far higher chance than many viruses.
The more vaccines you take, the more likely you are to be
susceptible to ongoing inflammations.
Other examples were, all the kids in Africa that die are generally
malnourished else the disease may not kill them as evidence
amongst those not malnourished. In 1963 in the Mississippi delta
many^^lchildren were dying of measles, but again because they
were severely malnourished. The 1918, 1919, Spanish Flu, was not
a killer virus and this was even again acknowledged by            At
the time they thought the deaths were as a result of the flu, but
after analysis of many samples from thousands of victims, it was
established it was a Spanish Flu vaccine (developed in a military
research centre in the U.S.) induced flu causing people to die of
bacterial pneumonia which could have been prevented with
antibiotics. The 1967, 1968 flu pandemic confirmed this.
 The NIH, National Institute of Health in America showed a study
that Ivermectin was successful in treating adults with moderate
Corvid 19, yet the health authorities declared it as ineffective?
Again, Hydroxychloroquine which is used in the treatment of
autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic
lupus erythematosus, was shown to be effective against Corvid 19.
It slows down the progression of the disease and provides relief
from pain, swelling, and redness, yet again they declared it as
ineffective? Why, because there was a law that said you were not
allowed to promote a new drug treatment for a serious illness, if
there was another one already available.
Various studies that were organised by the corrupt WHO (World
Health Organisation) and paid for by the
                                       one of the largest funders of
the WHO and the OVA, The Global Vaccination Alliance), have
deliberately conducted studies designed to fail. This included
Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine (provided by the
^^^^^|and still successfully given to 100’s of people every
year in Africa to treat malaria). No body died from taking the
recommended dosage, but by giving very large doses of vaccines
or medications, instead of the recommended dosage, many people
(of which many were in third world countries such as Africa)
became very ill and/or died. Hence, they could say that it does not
work
On the other hand, another drug,                is a broad-spectrum
antiviral medicine. It is used for the treatment of the novel
coronavirus disease (COVID-19). It works by inhibiting an RNA
dependent enzyme called RNA polymerase that helps the SARS-
CoV-2 virus make more copies of itself. This way it decreases the
viral load in the body. However, it was used in a study against
^^^^^^^Bwhere the safety panel pulled it out of use because
it was killing more people than ^^|was. So, why would you then
allow it’s use against a virus that has a serious ill health rate of one
percent?
In the Aids crisis, they used^H, (in full azidothymidine), also
called               a drug used to delay development of AIDS
(acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) in patients infected with
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). ^Hbelongs to a group of
drugs known as nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors
(NRTIs). It was used as a chemotherapy treatment. It was killing
people in a two-week dose virtually faster than cancer was killing
people. They slowed the death rates by giving blood transfusions
helping to support their claim that it was reasonably effective in
prolonging life.
In the case of ^^^when Corvid came along, they had got another
vaccine approved elsewhere, which was not available in the U.S.
But, having an approved vaccine allowed then them to distribute
their Corvid 19 vaccine to and collaborate with other government,
university, and medical research organisations. They initially
promised to do a five-year study, but cut that back to between 4
and 6 months in getting the emergency use approval. They
vaccinated 22,000 people and initially used 22,000 people
unvaccinated as a control/comparison group, but shortly after it
started unblinded it by doing away with the control group, most of
which in time got vaccinated, which was a total deception. In the
less than 6 months, in the placebo group 1 person died and in the
vaccinated group 2 people died, hence they immediately claimed
that it was 100 percent effective, because 2 is 100% of 1? Yet when
they looked at all-cause mortality in the survey group, the
unvaccinated had 17 people die and the vaccine group had 21.
From that, 4-5 cardiac arrests occurred in the vaccine group and
only 1 in the unvaccinated group?
There was an all-cause mortality deaths records from insurance
companies which showed thousands of people including athletes
were dying after receiving vaccines. Several records show over 15
million Americans sought medical help after vaccines which has
been clearly shown to have been extremely underestimated.
Almost 50% of the FDA’s (Food and Drug Administration), budget
comes from pharmaceutical companies. The CDC (Centre for
Disease Control and Prevention), has a 12 billion budget and
almost 5 billion of that goes to buying vaccines in sweetheart deals
from the Big 4 Pharma’s, and then promoting them to the public. If
you are part of the NIH (National Institute of Health) and you work
on one of their vaccines or drugs, you can collect royalties on that
product, up to U.S. $150,000 per year, for life, as long as that
product continues to sell, i.e. the^^Hand               vaccines.
There are 4-6 close colleges of^^^Twho are collecting that
$150,000 a year. There are no longer any regulatory authorities left
in the U.S. that are not corrupt and monetary driven. Drugs are the
number 3 killer in America and yet America spends more money on
health care than any other country in the world, yet their overall
health record is less than some third world countries.
Other areas covered:
There are numerous studies showing Wi Fi radiation opens-up the
blood brain barrier? KENNEDY has represented many hundreds of
people for cancers behind the ear that they favour for their cell
phones. He has successfully sued the government bodies
responsible for mobile phone Wi Fi.
^^^^Hin the US water system when given to male frogs caused
 many to become chemically castrated and others to become female
and get pregnant,               a pesticide that has been commonly
detected in surface and groundwater samples in Australia, usually
at less than 1 pg/L1. It is one of the most commonly detected
 pesticides in the Murray-Darling Basin1.has rarely been
found in Australian drinking water supplies, and when detected, it
 has been below the National Health & Medical Research Council
Australian Drinking Water Guideline level of 0.1 pg/L2. Australian
 regulators decided in 2008 to maintain their standard at 40 ppb3.


Definitely, Not So Cheers
J.P.




Australian Government Initiative
Guidelines For Water Quality
               in freshwater and marine water
Toxicant default guideline values for protecting aquatic ecosystems

October 2000

Extracted from Section 8.3.7 ‘Detailed descriptions of chemicals’ of the ANZECC &
ARMCANZ (2000) guidelines.

The default guideline values (previously known as ‘trigger values’) and associated
information in this technical brief should be used in accordance with the detailed guidance
provided in the Australian and New Zealand Guidelines for Fresh and Marine Water Quality.

Description of chemical
Atrazine (CAS 1912-24-9) is a triazine herbicide developed by Ciba-Geigy, with a selective
systemic mode of action, being absorbed mainly through the roots (Tomlin 1994). It inhibits
photosynthesis and other enzyme processes (Tomlin 1994). A comprehensive draft review of
atrazine by NRA (1997b) indicated that a complete set of data was available.

Its IUPAC name is 6-chloro-N2-ethyl-N4-isopropyl-l,3,5-triazine-2,4-diamine, molecular
formula is CgHuCINs and molecular weight is 215.7. Atrazine is soluble in water at 33 mg/L
at 20°C (Tomlin 1994). It has a pKa of 1.7. The current analytical practical quantitation limit
(PQL) for atrazine in water is 0.5 qg/L (NSW EPA 2000).

Uses and environmental fate
Atrazine is used widely against grasses and broad-leaved weeds in a variety of vines,
orchards, plantations and crops, particularly maize and sorghum (NRA 1997a). In Australia,
atrazine has over 1600 registered uses as 30 registered products. It is often used in
conjunction with other herbicides.

Atrazine is relatively stable in water and persists in groundwater with a DT50 greater than
100 days (Tomlin 1994). Atrazine breaks down only slowly in sunlight with a half-life of
around 1 year. Its half-life in fresh water systems is around 2 months, or more at lower
temperatures, but is more rapid (<1 month) in estuarine systems (NRA 1997b). It does not
bioaccumulate significantly. Atrazine is highly mobile and it has been commonly detected in
surface and groundwater samples in Australia (Cooper 1996) usually at less than 1 pg/L. In
fact, it is one of the most commonly detected pesticides in the Murray-Darling Basin.

Aquatic toxicology
Freshwater algae: two species, 48 to 96-hour EC50 (growth) of 21 to 377 pg/L. The lowest
figure was for Scenedesmus subspicatus but another figure of 110 pg/L was also reported for
that species.

Freshwater fish: 14 species; 96-hour LC50 between 500 (Rasbora heteromorpha, 48-hour
LC50) and 71,000 pg/L (Poecilia reticulata). A 35-day mortality NOEC of 300 pg/L was
obtained for Brachydanio rerio', a 21-day mortality NOEC of 60 pg/L for trout Oncorhynchus
mykiss', a 274-day growth NOEC of 250 pg/L for Pimephales promelas but no effect on
reproduction at 2000 pg/L (highest concentration). An acute-to-chronic ratio (ACR) of 300
was reported.

Freshwater crustaceans: five species, 48 to 96-hour EC50 of 5700 to 54,000 pg/L.

Microcosms and mesocosms: NRA (1997b) reviewed a number of aquatic microcosm and
mesocosm studies with different composition and test end-points (Moorhead & Kosinski
1986, Pratt et al. 1988, Stay et al. 1989, Neugebaur et al. 1990, Detenbeck et al. 1996,
Gruessner & Watkin 1996). Most reported just LOEC values between 50 and 300 pg/L but
eight NOEC values were reported; 3.2, 5, 17.5, 20, 20, 20 and 80 pg/L. The lowest figure was
a stimulation effect and was not considered. None of these fully satisfied the requirements but
they do give added confidence in the trigger value.

Marine fish: two species, 96-hour LC50 between 2000 and 16,200 pg/L.

Marine crustacean: four species, 96-hour LC50 of 94 pg/L (Acartia tonsd) to 13,200 pg/L; 8-
day NOEC (mortality) between 4200 and 17,500 pg/L for the copepod Eurytemora affinis,
depending on salinity. Two species of adult crabs were insensitive to atrazine up to its
solubility.

Marine diatom: one species, 48 to 72-hour EC50 of 50 to 265 pg/L (PSR, photosynthesis).

Australian and New Zealand data

The 96-h LC50 to the introduced fish Gambusia holbrooki was 18,900 pg/L and to
Hypseleotris gallii (firetail gudgeon) was 258,000 pg/L, well above the solubility level. The
48-hour LC50 to the water flea Ceriodaphnia dubia was 18,300 pg/L. The 72-hour EC50 to
the alga Selenastrum capricornutum was 359 pg/L. All of those figures were within the range
of overseas species, except for the gudgeon, which was particularly insensitive.

Factors that modify toxicity of atrazine

The NRA (1997b) review did not identify any factors modifying atrazine toxicity. Synergy
was not demonstrated with the pyrethroid bifenthrin. Hall et al. (1995) demonstrated varying
chronic toxicity of atrazine to an estuarine copepod, Eurytemora affinis, under different
salinity regimes. It was most sensitive (14.6 mg/L) at 5 ppt salinity and of lowest sensitivity
(20.9 mg/L) at 15 ppt. Mixtures of atrazine and metribuzin have additive toxicity to algae
(Altenburger et al. 1990).

Guidelines
A freshwater moderate reliability trigger value of 13 pg/L was derived for atrazine using the
statistical distribution method with 95% protection and an ACR of 20.2.

Although there are marine data on fish, crustaceans and algae (OECD MPD) it was
considered preferable to adopt the freshwater figure as a marine low reliability trigger value
(13 pg/L). This should be used only as an indicative interim working level.

References
Altenburger R, Bodeker W, Faust M & Grimme LH 1990. Evaluation of the isobologram
method for the assessment of mixtures of chemicals. Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety
20, 98-114.

ANZECC & ARMCANZ 2000. i                               dj     eline    A h 1
Marine Water Quality, Australian and New Zealand Environment and Conservation Council
and Agriculture and Resource Management Council of Australia and New Zealand, Canberra.

Cooper B 1996. Central and north west regions water quality program 1995/96 Report on
pesticides monitoring. Department of Land and Water Conservation, TS 96.048, Parramatta,
NSW.

Detenbeck NE, Hermanutz R, Allen K & Swift MC 1996. Fate and effects of the herbicide
atrazine in flow-through wetland mesocosms. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry 15,
937-946.

Gruessner B & Watkin MC 1996. Response of aquatic communities from a Vermont stream
to environmentally realistic atrazine exposure in laboratory microcosms, Environmental
Toxicology and Chemistry 15, 330-336.

Hall LW, Ziegenfuss MC, Anderson RD & Tierney DP 1995. The influence of salinity on the
chronic toxicity of atrazine to an estuarine copepod: Implications for development of an
estuarine chronic criterion. Archives ofEnvironmental Contamination and Toxicity 28, 344­
348.

Moorhead DL & Kosinski RJ 1986. Effect of atrazine on the productivity of artificial algal
communities. Bulletin ofEnvironmental Contamination and Toxicology 37, 330-336.

Neugebaur K, Zieris F-J & Huber W 1990. Ecological effects of atrazine on two outdoor
artificial freshwater ecosystems. Zeitschriftfur Wasser-Abwasswer-Forschung 23, 11-17.

NRA 1997a. Database extraction ofselected pesticides: Registered uses in Australia,
National Registration Authority, July 1997, Canberra.

NRA 1997b. Technical report on the NRA review ofAtrazine. Draft for public comment,
National Registration Authority, July 1997, Canberra.

NSW EPA 2000. Analytical Chemistry Section, Table of Trigger Values 20 March 2000,
LD33/11, Lidcombe, NSW.

Pratt JR, Bowers NJ, Niederlehner BR & Cairns J Jr 1988. Effects of atrazine on freshwater
microbial communities. Archives ofEnvironmental Contamination and Toxicology 17, 449­
457.

Stay FS, Katko A, Rohm CM, Fix MA & Larsen DP 1989. The effects of atrazine on
microcosms developed from four natural plankton communities. Archives ofEnvironmental
Contamination and Toxicology 18, 866-875.

Tomlin C 1994. The pesticide manual: A world compendium. 10th edn, British Crop
Protection Council & Royal Society of Chemistry, Bath, UK.
Print page

Was this page helpful?

                                    Top of Form
                                   Bottom of Form




       New Zealand Government




        NSW
        GOVERNMENT

        State      wr
        Government V

        Victoria
                   NORTHERN
       ■me TERRITORY
                   government




        GOVERNMENT OF
       WESTERN AUSTRALIA


                 Government of
                 South Australia




        Queensland Government
  Tasmanian
. Government




•   Water Quality Australia
•   Accessibility
•   Privacy

•

•   © Commonwealth of Australia
