To the Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce:

I am making this submission as an individual who was severely socially,
economically and emotionally impacted by the decisions made by our
government at various stages of the pandemic, and by the subsequent
efforts to whitewash the clear (to me) violations of basic human rights
that were perpetrated (and factually encouraged) against myself and
fellow Australians by government actions, policies, censorship,
misinformation, economic decisions, medical interventions, and
restriction of liberties.

Never before has the Australian government taken such a totalitarian role
in the lives of Australians, and yet we have so far passed through this
draconian era without a Royal Commission.

I once had a great deal of admiration and respect for the “system” in
Australia, and the principles of equality and a “fair go” on which it was
founded.

I have lost my faith in the system, and am now deeply distrustful of our
government as a result.

Only by a Royal Commission do I feel that my trust might be regained.

The specific matters I take the most severe exception to, and wish to be
fully investigated, are as follows:

   -   The relentless propaganda against the unvaccinated, which sought
       to divide our nation, our workplaces, our friendships, and even our
       families, through an extremely distressing time in history, when
       people needed more than ever to be united and compassionate. I
       am adamant that this approach was unfounded and unjustifiable,
       and caused untold damage to the social fabric of our country. I, for
       one, bear emotional scars that will not heal until a Royal
       Commission finds this to have been improper and unconscionable.

   -   There is justifiable suspicion of corrupt vaccine procurement and
       secret contracts, given the magnitude of money that was so hastily
       dished out to massive pharmaceutical companies with histories of
       dishonest dealings, for poorly trialled vaccines which have injured
       so many. This should be the matter of a full inquiry by way of a
       Royal Commission.
The cost vs benefit of lockdowns needs to be fully evaluated. The
economic carnage they wrought will likely prove unjustifiable if a
full enquiry is made into this.

For a nation of immigrants, the separation of Australians from their
families across the world by federal and state border closures is
unacceptable. Australia’s stance on this was not comparable with
the approach taken in most other countries. This was distressing for
me, and many others I know, in the extreme. So much so that I am
not comfortable to “risk” being held prisoner in Australia again,
away from my elderly parents abroad, and I currently feel more
secure living abroad. Only when this matter has been reviewed by a
Royal Commission, and people have had the chance to share their
stories, will I feel better about this.

How any country can mandate vaccines for the sake of getting or
retaining a job (their livelihood), and still call itself a democracy
that respects the human rights of individuals, is beyond me. If
anyone finds this hard to understand then they do not have a
thorough enough knowledge of history, human rights, and
governance to be in a position of power. This needs to be
investigated by a Royal Commission.

It is easy to prove that lies and misinformation were rampant in the
media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission, and
that these were started and/or fuelled by our own government
leaders. Those guilty of misinforming the public need to be
investigated and held accountable.

I was shocked by the highly-efficient and well-orchestrated
approach taken by AHPRA to intimidate and silence the very people
entrusted with the job of assessing and advising the suitability of
vaccines for their individual patients - our doctors. Threatening
doctors with ill consequences for doing anything but toe the line
with regard to government’s vaccination rollout was unethical in
the extreme and utterly unconscionable. It interferes with some of
the most fundamental principles of the medical profession. How
could any medical professional remain confident in the
professionalism and ethics of such a body as AHPRA after witnessing
the approach they took to pushing the agenda of a few highly
suspicious vested interests? This alone would warrant a Royal
Commission.
   -   No expense should be spared in assessing the full extent of vaccine
       injuries and excess deaths, and the results should be broadly
       published, so that the public can understand what has been done to
       them, and regain confidence in the transparency of government in
       such matters. Politics is not to enter into this. This is a matter of
       good and ethical governance.

   -   Media censorship is a primary instrument of totalitarianism, and it
       was shockingly apparent throughout the pandemic. The extent of
       the Australian government’s role in this needs a full investigation,
       and measures need to be put in place to prevent such totalitarian
       measures from being used in the future.

Some people are still awake enough to see what went on during this
unprecedented time period. Some of us have lived in countries where
human rights are not taken for granted, because we have lived through
atrocities resulting from their neglect and abuse.

This is our opportunity to write a better future.

We need you, our leaders, to have the integrity and moral fibre to insist
that government actions be evaluated and scrutinised - to see what was
right, and what was wrong, and how things should be done differently in
the future. And thereby regain the trust and confidence of your people.

In the meanwhile, you have lost mine. I look forward to being able to give
it back.



Concerned citizen of Australia
