Libertarian Party Australia Submission Covid-19 Inquiry.

Government responses to the pandemic that spread throughout the world in early 2020 represented the most significant
suppression of individual liberty that many of us have ever known. It was an exercise in panic, bureaucratic inflexibility and an
abandonment of respect for human rights, due process, transparency and medical ethics. Nothing short of a comprehensive Royal
Commission will do justice to the depth of reflection and consideration required to understand the mistakes that were made and
provide a sense of justice to the many victims of Government oppression.

This is a view shared by one of Australia’s Human Rights Commissioners ^^^^^^^^who described the structure of this
inquiry as a “missed opportunity”, noting that the terms of reference failed to mention human rights and is not adequate to
understand “the full human cost of the pandemic”.1 For years the human beings residing in Australia were treated as “potential
vectors”, rather than people, and without adequately understanding their stories, “the lessons learned” will be limited in scope and
the stated purpose of this inquiry cannot be fulfilled.

While this inquiry is too narrow in its scope and too brief in its timeline to adequately address all the issues, this submission will
seek to address the terms of reference and provide insights and recommendations in key areas that we feel may go some way to
restoring balance for future pandemics and emergency responses more broadly. However, the Libertarian Party of Australia
believes that the needs, desires and aspirations of all Australians matter and urge the Panel to remember the real humans
impacted by Government restrictions while they consider improvements to “systems”.

The Australian response to Covid-19 is described well in the title of a book co-authored by Professor of economics ^^^^^|“The
Great Covid Panic”. Our initial response was to abandon all previous considerations and planning, throw our pandemic plans in the
bin and embark on a radical experiment in suppressing the movement and activity to an unprecedented degree. This was all done
without due consideration of risks, costs and benefits. Australia panicked and implemented policies that undoubtedly created more
harm than they prevented. The population is fatter, sicker and burdened with astronomical debt that represents an opportunity cost
alone that would render lockdowns a poor choice. Two data points seemed to drive all other policy responses: the number of
infections and the number of Covid-19 fatalities. Reducing policy considerations to such a simple metric could justify any
expenditure or restrictive burden in anything from swimming to horse riding.

It was a common refrain throughout the pandemic to hear pronouncements such as, “the economy doesn’t matter, this is about
saving lives”, or “you can’t place a value on a human life”. This kind of messaging was reckless, naive and indicative of a policy
response that ignored the fact that this is not only done every day but done in a way that encompasses a broader assessment of
human wellbeing than simple “survival”. This is the approach taken in considering medications suitable for inclusion in the
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme and Professorial incorporated their information into an economic analysis to assess the
broad cost-benefit approach of lockdowns and otnemestrictive measures.2 Her analysis throughout the pandemic suggests that
lockdowns were a catastrophic policy decision that has produced far more harm than good for Australians.3

If the Independent Panel fails to consider the fundamental question, “were lockdowns a mistake” it will fail to address the most
important aspects of reviewing our response to Covid-19.

Recommendation:
     1.   The Independent Panel should commission economic analysis that incorporates data from overseas jurisdictions,
          including countries like Sweden that never had a hard lockdown, that looks at changes in net-debt to GDP, covid fatalities,
          overall excess deaths and where available additional data on life satisfaction.

National Cabinet
The establishment of a national entity to coordinate a response and ensure prompt communication and a focus on critical needs
was a necessary feature. The Libertarian Party of Australia agrees with former Senator Rex Patrick’s criticisms of the secrecy
around the National Cabinet process and commends him in his diligence in ensuring that the minutes of these meetings were made
public.4 While it is unsurprising, it is nevertheless disappointing that the secrecy initiated by the Morrison Government has
continued this by not releasing all minutes of National Cabinet meetings to the public.5

Providing this level of transparency should be done simply as a matter of course as we are supposed to be living in a liberal
democracy. But even for those who don’t adhere to this principle, it is still worth doing to try and maintain trust and so that adequate
scrutiny can be provided to both the decision-making process and the outcome of deliberations. This should not be something that
Governments and decision makers fear. It is simply hubris to assume that any small group of people, no matter how knowledgeable
or experienced could get everything right.

While this inquiry states in the terms of reference that they are taking a “whole of Government” approach, from the documents
publicly available (thanks                   this doesn’t seem to have been the approach by National Cabinet. Key advice and
guidance were mostly provided by relevant chief health officers, with briefings from treasury officials. While there was consideration
of some critical concerns, such as family violence, childhood education and mental health impacts, there was likely a lot of relevant
advice and considerations not presented to the meeting.



1 https://humanrights.gov.au/about/news/opinions/covid-19-inquiry-missed-opportunity
2 https://docs.iza.org/dpl5294.pdf
3 https://ipa.org.au/ipa-review-articles/more-harm-than-good
4 https://michaelwest.com.au/scott-morrisons-secrecy-fetish-exposed-by-release-of-national-cabinet-papers/
5 https://michaelwest.com.au/nothing-to-see-here-albos-vows-of-transparency-vanish-in-a-veil-of-secrecy/
The whole process was functionally led by public health bureaucrats and concerns of epidemiology. It is evident in both the
available public documents and through the actions taken by Governments that alternative approaches were never really
considered. Once the path was set, everyone followed and further actions were simply those deemed necessary to ameliorate the
impacts caused by following the chief course. Future crisis cabinets should be broader, more transparent and facilitate pathways for
submissions, particularly from industry groups and peak bodies. Without bridging the gaps between senior politicians, bureaucrats,
and the realities on the ground there will always be unnecessary collateral damage and a tendency for rigid bureaucracies to
attempt to enforce strict compliance where adaptive innovation may form a better response.

Further to this, the arrest and conviction of              the Chair of the National COVID-19 Commission Advisory Board for
breaching covid restrictions would indicate that some of the restrictions were considered unnecessarily burdensome, even by those
tasked with helping to guide them, and that an elite cabal believed that the rules were only for others and not themselves.

Recommendations:
    2.   In any future emergency, if a centralised decision-making body is established or empowered, the minutes of any
         proceedings should be published promptly.
    3.   Any future crisis cabinet should have broad participation and facilitate streamlined pathways for submissions, particularly
         from industry groups, peak bodies and civil society organisations.
    4.   Any future crisis cabinet should receive advice from independent experts in human rights to ensure decision making
         adequately addresses human rights considerations.

Stranded Australians
This section is referring both to the tens of thousands of Australians that were stranded overseas for an extended period over the
course of the pandemic and to the unknown number of Australian’s who were prevented from leaving the country. Preventing
citizens from leaving the country was an abhorrent restriction that should never have occurred. The justification was likely that they
may be sacrificing an ability to return and potentially adding to the burden of a struggling quarantine regime. This is an insufficient
justification. It would likely have been necessary and appropriate to ensure that residents exiting the country signed a statement
that they understood they might not be able to return for some time and support from the federal Government might be limited, they
should have been allowed the choice.

Many Australians have dual citizenship, or extended families abroad. Their reasons for wanting to leave might be many and varied,
from business reasons to sick family members, or simply wanting to weather the pandemic in an environment where they had more
support. Whatever the reason, they were essentially detained in their country without suitable justification.

The fact that tens of thousands of Australians were stranded overseas for an extended period should be a national shame. It was
indicative of a failed approach to the pandemic and a quarantine system that was not fit for purpose. Communication with these
people was poor and they had to establish their own digital systems of support and communication. The response from the federal
Government gave all appearances that these people were just not regarded as a high priority.

Recommendation:
    5.   Create a process for indemnifying the Government from any risk or obligation for people that choose to leave Australia
         during a declared crisis.

Communication and health messaging
The general tone of communication throughout the pandemic from all levels of Government seemed intentionally directed to create
a climate of fear. This is consistent with theme of The Great Covid Panic that permeated policy and politics, not just domestically,
but throughout much of the world. Further to this, the most notable people leading the communication about the pandemic and the
Government response to it were senior politicians. These people have spent their careers training in political spin, dodging
questions and reframing challenging questions to pivot to their key talking points. Filtering messaging through a political lens would
not represent best practice in public health communication.

Politicians are also trained to express confidence and certainty about a policy or approach. This led to a situation where things that
were certain last week or last month, turned out to be wrong. This inconsistency has damaged the public trust in Government. The
complexity of the various ever-changing rules and regulations was unfathomable, even to those tasked with implementing or
advising on them. We heard many examples of people reaching out to call centres which provided incorrect or confusing
information.

The Government, through the Home Affairs Department, were also active in suppressing online information. While the media
companies have their own terms of service, the Federal Government were active in their attempts to suppress information. Open
dialogue and an ability to criticise the Government is even more critical when they are essentially ruling through emergency decree.
It is likely that some of the information that they were trying to suppress, was subsequently found to be true, or at least contested.
One example would be the official messaging, “the vaccines prevent you catching and spreading Covid”. Which was proven to be
false.


Quarantine and border closures
The Quarantine system, from start to finish, represents one of the most significant policy failures of the pandemic. One of the more
bizarre aspects of this was the construction of dedicated quarantine facilities, after the vaccine rollout had begun and the
Government should have been shifting their focus to the post-pandemic recovery phase and the budget position. While the speed
of approval and construction was impressive, particularly for a Government project, it should have either commenced early in 2020,
or have been cancelled entirely to reduce the debt burden post-pandemic. A photo that appeared in some official photos where a
worker had shaped some towels into the shape of a white elephant for the Victorian facility probably gives an indication of the
public sentiment.

The use of hotels for extended quarantine arrangements was subject to an inquiry in Victoria. The Coate inquiry noted that financial
considerations to support the industry was a factor, in addition to expediency over suitability.6 As the key point of vulnerability in the
Government response, hotel quarantine was of critical importance. Despite this, there was confusion about responsibilities between
departments and delegated responsibility to private contractors with no experience in infection control, poor guidance from
Government and a lack of appropriate oversight. During the inquiry Premier Andrews conceded that this was not appropriate. It is
plausible that effective control at the border could allow society to function with less disruption to society and the economy than
other options.

The Federal Government also delegated authority to the States and Territories to manage their own border restrictions. The
Victorian Ombudsman’s Investigation into decision making under the Victorian Border Crossing Permit Directions was undertaken
in 2021 after receiving more than 80 complaints. The Ombudsman found that, “While acknowledging the challenging circumstances
faced by the department, and that not all its decisions were unfair, the Ombudsman found the narrow exercise of discretion under
the Victorian Border Crossing Permit Directions resulted in unjust outcomes. ”7 The report details a clunky, bureaucratic process that
was difficult to understand or comply with and where human rights and individual circumstances were not given due weight. While
not stated in her report, it is likely that the issues people experienced were reflected broadly throughout the public service in
Australia.

Recommendation:
     6.         Consideration should be given to planning for both options recommended in the Coate inquiry:
          •             A well-planned specialist facility quarantine centre
          •             A pathway for home-based quarantine

Vaccine mandates and patient autonomy
While it was primarily state and territory Governments that imposed vaccine mandates and the vaccine passport system, this was
only possible through the Federal Government allowing the use of information contained in the Australian Immunisation Registry.
The Federal Government is also responsible for ATAGI and the management of the Australian Immunisation Handbook. Messaging,
policies, and procedures were significant factors in the vaccine role out. We believe that the Australian approach to vaccination
undermined key principles of medical ethics and contributed to a systemic violation of the principles of consent and medical ethics.

The Australian Immunisation handbook states:
“For consent to be legally valid, the following elements must be present:
[...]
2. It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation. ”89

It is hard to imagine that a vaccine taken under threat of losing employment, or visitation rights to a sick loved one, or the ability to
travel would meet the definition of legally valid consent. The Libertarian Party Australia is aware of many instances where a person
stated that they were taking the vaccine under pressure and coercion and still received a vaccine, suggesting that legally valid
consent was not obtained, and a violation of medical ethics occurred.




The risk profile for covid vs the vaccines was also not communicated clearly. Data from Israel in mid-2021 was already reporting on
the link between the Pfizer vaccine and myocarditis, prior to the vaccine being widely available to this demographic in Australia.
Despite this, Australia persisted with mandates in this age group, who were at higher risk of an adverse event and with a
comparatively lower risk from a Covid-19 infection.

Recommendation:
     7.   The Independent Panel should examine occurrences where legally valid consent may not have been obtained and
          examine jurisdictions where mandates were not in force to understand the effectiveness of their vaccination program and
          public attitudes to immunisation.




6 https://content.royalcommission.vic.gov.au/sites/default/files/2020-12/0387_RC_Covid-19%20Final%20Report_Volume%202_Chapter%207_Digital.pdf (page
216)
7 https://www.ombudsman.vic.gov.au/our-impact/investigation-reports/investigation-into-decision-making-under-the-victorian-border-crossing-permit-
directions/#full-report
8 https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccination-procedures/preparing-for-vaccination
9 https://japan.kantei.go.jp/ongoingtopics/vaccine.html
