My name is Helen McWha. I am a Nurse/Midwife now prematurely in retirement due to mandates for
health workers within Victoria. I served the community in public hospitals forcover 30 years. All jobs
related to my experience are unavailable to me as a result of mandates still being in place, right down to
disability, aged care and childcare. I took one dose of Pfizer in October 2021 and had a significant
reaction within days, which involved a bleed into the iris of my eye and chest pain which lasted for
weeks.                           took AstraZeneca and he too became                                  with
                           required him to go to hospital twice and sadly lasted for months. He was too
unwell to work and ended up being^^^^^^due to mandates. Both of us attended hospital, but had
to push to get a doctor to report our reactions, despite seeing our General Practitioners, Emergency
Consultants and an                         did admit the                               was suspicious and
was likely due to the Covid vaccination. My                gave him a short term exemption and was then
rung by Victorian health authorities and told he could not give him another exemption despite my
^^^^|still being unwell and requiring numerous investigations. His^^^^^^Hrefused to give him an
exemption at all, stating he was unable to. A '^^^Hdoctor who assessed written reports of anyone with
a reaction or vaccine injury, rang m\^^^^|and told him he had assessed his vaccine injury report and
he was deemed fit to have another Covid vaccine and suggested Novavax, despite my^^^^|still
having^^^^^|and having never actually seen                  That's the level of irresponsibility
demonstrated by governing authorities during the pandemic. To recommend another Covid vaccine
when a person is still unwell from the first.

Our story is just one of thousands, as is evident by reports to the TGA. People who have been effected by
the Covid vaccine with regards to their health have been gas lit and penalised simply because we were
injured and unwell. The mandates were absolutely cruel to those who were injured by the vaccine and
many people who were already sick and struggling were then financially deprived of their income and in
some cases, their career. The governance by the state government in Victoria was incredibly harsh and
had zero compassion for those who were unwell following vaccination. The fact that doctors were
silenced by Aphra and threatened with deregistration if they said anything against the government
narrative was extremely dangerous because Doctors and Nurses who were seeing firsthand the reactions
and injuries presenting to clinics and emergency departments were too scared to report and admit that
the vaccine could be the reason for the reaction and injuries they were seeing. This lack of free speech
and willingness to report what they were witnessing was incredibly dangerous. To continue to advise
people who had a reaction or injury to their first dose of Covid vaccine to have further doses of the
vaccine was negligent, and sadly reflected the level of medical irresponsibility that was demonstrated
during the pandemic. The 'safe and effective' narrative was not true for all, and those people should
have been supported and cared for, especially with regard to their health and finances. Certainly they
should not have had to have another vaccine if they had a reaction or injury from the first, just to keep
working and survive financially.

Early treatment in the form of antivirals should have been available for all Australians from the beginning
and healthcare advice to educate people on how to build immunity through nutrition and other means
was sadly ignored. The focus on vaccination being the only source of protection was inaccurate and
coercive. There was no informed consent, no education around what a 'provisionally approved' vaccine
was, and the fact that there was no long-term data available was never discussed. Healthy children were
not at risk of severe illness from Covid infection and yet a provisionally approved vaccine was
recommended to be given to them. That can only be described as unethical, especially knowing there is
no long-term data available. The same applied to pregnant women. One would have to question why you
would recommend this vaccine to these groups, especially when we know the efficacy of the vaccine is
short term, antivirals can be used and we have no data on the effects on the unborn child.

The fact that people lost their livelihood if they were not vaccinated can only be described as blackmail.
This completely destroyed any form of valid consent according to the Australian Handbook on
Immunisation, as consent was not obtained without coercion.

As a Nurse/Midwife of over 30 years, I am extremely concerned at the governance during the pandemic.
The degree of 'force' that was used was inhumane and caused so much harm. The silencing of doctors
can only be described as dangerous and has eroded the doctor/patient relationship with many people
now questioning the motives of their medical providers. No healthcare professional should be gagged
when they are administering a provisionally approved vaccine and seeing the reactions and injuries
occuring firsthand. That silencing is abhorrent and it must be stopped.

I am no longer registered with Aphra because of this reason. I will not associate with this organisation
because of what they have done. This organisation needs to be investigated and disbanded and a new
regulatory body formed with medical professionals overseeing their peers. Likewise, the Therapeutic
Goods Administration also needs to be investigated and it's source of funding needs to be thoroughly
scrutinised. It cannot have any conflict of interest if it is to operate transparently and protect Australians
when assessing new medicines and vaccinations.

If a pandemic should ever happen again, the focus on vaccination being the only source of protection
needs to stop. Any vaccine coming into this country needs to be thoroughly tested and assessed
independently prior to its rollout.

Early treatment measures must be employed including the provision of antivirals to all Australians to
stop the progression of disease. Education around building immunity through nutrition, spending time
outdoors, exercise and other health measures must be emphasised and provided.

I hope you will listen to all submissions and put the welfare of ALL Australians first. Those responsible for
decision making previously do need to be scrutinised and held accountable. Grave errors have occurred,
many Australians are still suffering. Complete transparency and honestly and a strong desire to make
significant change is required if this enquiry will have any benefit at all.

Yours sincerely,

Helen McWha
