                    Queensland
                    Human Rights
                    Commission

Our ref: BNE5409161




15 December 2023

Independent Panel
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet
Australian Government
Sent by webform: https://www.pmc.c v.au/covid-19-response-inquiry/consultati n


Dear Independent Panel
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Thank you for this opportunity to make submissions on this inquiry.
This submission:

     •         outlines the work done by the Commission during the pandemic;
     •     considers the Commonwealth could have had a greater role in governance and
           leadership during the pandemic;
     •     advocates for the implementation of a national human rights framework to safeguard
           human rights at times of emergency;
     •     recommends response measures build in oversight and review mechanisms when
           applied at an individual level;
     •         highlights the importance of nationally addressing racism and vilification.
The Commission’s role during the pandemic
The Queensland Human Rights Commission (the Commission) is a statutory body established
under the Queensland Anti-Discrimination Act 1991 (AD Act). The Commission’s functions
include receiving complaints for dispute resolution under the AD Act and the Human Rights Act
2019 (HR Act), promoting an understanding and public discussion of human rights in
Queensland, and to provide information and education about human rights.
The substantive provisions of the HR Act commenced on 1 January 2020. The Queensland
Government declared a public health emergency on 29 January 2020 which continued until 1
November 2022.
The Commission has received more than 1500 complaints recorded as being related to
COVID-19, and continue to receive such complaints. During 2021-22, 29% of the 6409
enquiries made to the Commission were COVID-19 related, and 36% of the 1870 complaints
received were COVID-19 related. The majority of complaints related to border closures, hotel
quarantine, and mandatory mask and vaccination requirements. Rights raised in relation to
these complaints included recognition and equality before the law, the right not to be subject to



                                  Brisbane           Cairns            Townsville               Rockhampton
STATEWIDE
tollfree                          Level 20           Ground Floor      Ground Floor             Level 1
1300 130 670                      53 Albert Street   10 Grove Street   187-209 Stanley Street   209 Bolsover Street
                                  Brisbane Q 4000    PO Box 4699       PO Box 1566              PO Box 1390
info(§)qhrc.qld.gov.au
                                  PO Box 15565       Cairns Q 4870     Townsville Q 4810        Rockhampton Q 4700
qhrc.qld.gov.au
                                  City East Q 4002
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                 Page 2



medical treatment without consent, privacy and reputation, humane treatment when deprived
of liberty, and freedom of movement.
The Commission also:

    •   provided a human rights perspective to parliamentary committees considering bills and
        inquiries related to COVID-19;
    •   met with the Chief Health Officer to discuss human rights issues arising from public
        health directions, and advocated for justification material to be published with public
        health directions;
    •   engaged with communities to understand people’s experiences of restrictions, and
        provided feedback to Departments and agencies about their approaches and policies;
    •   intervened in legal proceedings challenging vaccination mandates to provide the court
        with independent expertise on human rights (these legal proceedings are still on foot);
        and
    •   developed material for the public about COVID-19 and human rights, including a guide
        for businesses and services navigating mask requirements.
One of the Commission’s priorities throughout the pandemic was the replacement of
temporary amendments with bespoke legislation that would allow governments to respond
effectively to COVID-19 risks while ensuring transparency, accountability, and compatibility
with human rights. That was achieved through the passing of the Public Health and Other
Legislation (CO VID-19 Management) Amendment Act 2022, which commenced on 1
November 2022.
Governance during the pandemic
Much of the COVID-19 response was driven by State and Territory governments.
It appears that the response may have benefited from increased intervention and leadership
from the Commonwealth government where it has power to do so. Notably, section 51 (ix) of
the Constitution empowers the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws with respect to
‘quarantine’. A national approach to quarantine may have alleviated some of the issues faced
by people seeking to travel to and through Australia and having to contend with different, and
at times fast changing, quarantine requirements in each jurisdiction.
In the Commission’s view, Queensland’s HR Act proved to be an important safeguard of the
rights of people in Queensland during the pandemic. The HR Act requires introduced
legislation to be accompanied by a statement of compatibility and for regulations to be
accompanied by a human rights certificate.1 Government must therefore consider the impacts
of new laws and regulations on human rights and must set out justification for any limitations
on human rights.
Government and public entities also have obligations under the HR Act to act and make
decisions compatibly with human rights, and to give proper consideration to human rights
when making decisions.2 This obligation extends from high level Ministerial decisions to day to
day actions taken by front line services.
Where a person believes this obligation has been breached, they may make a complaint to the
Commission for dispute resolution. This process is intended to provide a way of resolving

1 Human Rights Act 2019 (Qld) Part 3 Division 1.
2 Human Rights Act 2019 (Qld) s 58.
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                         Page 3



complaints that is informal, quick and efficient. For complaints relating to COVID-19, this
produced positive outcomes particularly during the early stages of implementation of a policy,
such as unsuitable quarantine conditions. The Commission’s complaints process provided
external oversight for the application of policy to individual circumstances, leading to fairer
outcomes and systemic improvements, which might not have otherwise been available.
The Commission’s submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 was and
continues to be that governance during the pandemic would have been enhanced by a
national human rights framework.3 For example, the restrictions placed on remote Indigenous
communities under the Biosecurity Act 2015 (Cth) may have benefited from a human rights
assessment and a pathway for people to raise concerns where blanket application of the
policy resulted in a disproportionate limitation of their human rights.
Key health response measures
Queensland public health directions imposed restrictions on people for the purpose of
protecting the community. In some cases, the benefits of those restrictions were outweighed
by the impacts on the individual. The individual could request an exemption from the direction,
or for an adjustment to the application of the direction, but the request was not always granted.
The HR Act provided a process by which these decisions could be externally examined for
human rights compatibility by an independent body. Without the HR Act, the individual may
have had no other options for challenging the decision.
Key health response measures will often be rapidly implemented and have broad application.
They will not be able to cater for every individual circumstance or eventuality. The Commission
submits that any key health response measure must allow for flexibility for individual
circumstances, and that decisions that significantly limit human rights are subject to external
review or oversight to avoid unintended, disproportionate outcomes.
Community supports
The Commission, which also deals with complaints underthe AD Act, received enquiries and
complaints from people of Chinese and Asian descent who experienced racial vilification and
discriminatory treatment when trying to obtain goods and services during the pandemic. We
also heard about increased vilification of Asian students from a vocational education provider.

A national strategy and campaign to foster inclusion of all the diverse groups who constitute
the Australian community (a component of which would cover racism and vilification) would
assist to avoid spikes in such behaviour during times of crisis.




3 Queensland Human Rights Commission, Submission to Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 (28 May 2020).
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                              Page 4



Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
A human rights approach to a pandemic response would necessarily involve the identification,
consultation, and consideration of communities more vulnerable to a public health emergency
and the measures taken to respond to it. This again demonstrates the need for a human rights
framework at a national level.
Yours sincerely




Scott McDougall
Queensland Human Rights Commissioner
