1.      Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts......... Multi billion dollar deals given to
drug companies and absolving them of any liability for any deaths or adverse effects resulting from
the "vaccine"

2.      Vaccine mandates ........       A cpmplete violation of human rights and freedoms. Causing
untold harm to private individuals and businesses alike.

3.      Vaccine injuries........... No enquiry into these deaths and a new medical term introduced
instead, SADS, to cover up the real reason for these dearhs

4.       Mask mandates and lockdowns....... Caused sever stress and unnecessary misery to a
significant percentage of the population. Was more harmfull that the supposed virus, caused
suicides, child and spouse abuse and a whole lot more. Figures can be produced to substantiate
these facts. Public figures changing their views on the efficacy of masks, like Fauch after proper
scientists had shown evidence that masks didn't work.

5.       Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection
and transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured........... Media
driven misinformation, causing millions to believe the lie and unnecessarily fear for their lives as the
death rate was proven to be less than 0.1% Evidence from the health organisations themselves
stating the " vaccine" had never been tested for efficacy, but was sold to the public on the basis that
it prevented infection. Real scientists silenced in favour of those with no medical qualifications
whatsoever.

6.      The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the vaccine
and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession....... A complete disregard for
safety when administering the " vaccine" The phials were not correctly dated and came in large
batches which then were divided into separate phials for individual use, all done by unqualified
persons. The "vaccines" were also not transported or stored correctly. There is also evidence of
batches being used after the use by date.



In short nothing but an exercise in control. Nothing to do with the publics safety. The government
passed the buck to businesses to enforse their legislation, which was totally unlawful anyway. They
then proceeded to say the " vaccine" was not mandatory?????? In order to get off the hook.

Its high time there was some accountability and a Royal commission is what is needed.



Yvonne Hadfield
