                              SUBMISSION RE COVID19 INQUIRY

In addressing the call for submissions for the Covid Inquiry from the Office of Prime Minister
and Cabinet, the issues needed to be investigated are as follows:

   •   Transparency in covid contracts between organisations, especially pharmaceutical
       companies
   •       Vaccine data on mortality rates
   •       Mask mandates
   •       Lockdowns
   •       Misinformation in media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission
   •       Vaccine injuries
   •       Media censorship relating to vaccines and their side effects
   •   Silencing of doctors and other qualified personnel such as independent scientists,
       epidemiologists and the like
   •       The lack of openness for scientific and medical debate
   •   The role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors poor
       treatment of vaccine injured victims and the fact ATAGI is financed by
       pharmaceutical companies
   •       The harassment of family members by hospitals
   •       Border closures preventing families seeing their loved ones, sick or not

I worked in a school, in the office, I was able to work from home and only needed to pop
into work once every couple of weeks for about an hour. Once the vaccine was mandated I
wasn't ALLOWED to continue working from home, no jab no job was the mantra. Twice I
waited on the line with my Dr's clinic for an appointment to get the jab and twice my gut
screamed at me not to. I listened to my gut.



I ended up catching the supposedly deadly disease Covid and got an exemption from having
the jab for six months, this gave me "permission to work" without the jab for six months.
Before catching the deadly disease I was locked out of work, restaurants, pubs, life in
general and my mental health really declined - this is like
DISGUSTING!



My^year old mother kept telling me "you won't be able to participate in life" and I kept
saying "I shouldn't need an injection and papers to participate in life". She had 2 jabs so she
could go for coffee but hasn't gone for any more since the death of Shane Warne - my^^|
brothers were the same, 2 but no more.



I wanted to protest against this madness and watched live streams of protests, wishing I had
someone to protest with, then I saw the citizens of Melbourne being shot with rubber
bullets and chased down by inhuman PORT teams - again DISGUSTING I I cried my eyes out
watching it all unfold and a kind freedom fighter put people like myself in touch with like
minded people and I have protested with them ever since.
The people who lost loved ones and weren't allowed a funeral with more than a couple of
people, the people stuck at the border who weren't sick but not allowed to cross, the
woman who lost a baby because QLD premier wouldn't let her into QLD from NSW, the
pregnant mum in Ballarat trying to fight for freedom, arrested in her home in pyjamas, the
kids who couldn't attend school and are now struggling, the people who lost their jobs
because they knew better than to get the jab, the suicides, the wealth of experience in
education, healthcare, pilots, army, navy, police, the list goes on. If there isn't a full inquiry
into this disgraceful time, it's only because the government is complicit.



I wouldn't have dreamt that my government wouldn't "work for me, for the people of
Australia" but after attaining burns when I was protesting in Canberra I wouldn't put any
faith in the government at all. A Royal Commission inquiry is needed and demanded by the
people of Australia.
