https://www.pmc.gov.au/resources/commonwealth-government-covid-19-responsednquiry-terms-reference
due 15/12/2023
1. During the COVID-19 Pandemic the 'science' was not followed. Many opinions , discussion and
    investigation of the peer-reviewed research contrary to the Government line on the merits of the COVID-
    19 vaccinations were censored. The COVID-19 vaccines were experimental, ie without the usual 10-12
    years of research and so it was imperative to pay attention to the feedback from medical practitioners
    about the effects of the injections on those who took it. But AHPRA threatened doctors with loss of
    registration if they said anything to their patients or online about the efficacy or the risk of harm from the
    vaccines. So there was not vigilance about the effects of the vaccines, there still isn't. Further the statistics
    on the death and injury rates around the time of the vaccines and after were not heeded and investigated.
    With previous medical procedures any small adverse effects resulted in the withdrawal of the product. So
    in spite of signals that the vaccines were causing harm the government and medical officials continued to
    advocate for them as 'safe and effective' which was an absolute lie.

2.   The TGA, is it about 86% or more funded by the pharmaceutical industry (?)(clearly can't possibly be
     objective in assessing new products before they go to market) didn't properly scrutinise the paperwork
     submitted to the FDA by Pfizer about their research for their application for Emergency Use Authorisation.
     If they had they would have seen that there were more deaths in the vaccinated group than in the
     unvaccinated group and they would surely have been suspicious when they found out that the
     unvaccinated group was also given the vaccine so there was no longer a proper control. The COVID-19
     'vaccines' should never have been approved. See the slide of potential side effects.

3.   The TGA banned the use of Ivermectin in Australia for treatment of COVID-19 when there was adequate
     research supporting its efficacy. The TGA clearly was about supporting the pharmaceutical industry, not
     the health of Australians. In America the use of hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin for treatment of
     COVID-19 had to be debunked in order for the experimental vaccines to get Emergency Use Authorisation
     which is why they were denigrated and denied here. Doctors need to be able to prescribe for the patient in
     front of them without interference or one-size-fits-all treatment proscribed by the government.

4. The TGA advocated for the experimental COVID-19 vaccines to be given to pregnant women. When ever
   has an experimental procedure been allowed to be given to pregnant women? There was no research on
   pregnant women, in fact those men vaccinated during the Pfizer trial were told not to have unprotected
    (with their partners. Also there was evidence that one of the places that the lipid nanoparticles
     concentrate in is the ovaries, surely a red flag not to advocate for pregnant women getting the COVID-19
     vaccine. Even when midwives and obstetricians flagged the high decrease in live birth rates the
     government continued to press on with the 'safe and effective' mantra and those pointing out the harm
     lost their jobs.

5.   That people weren't forced to get any COVID-19 vaccine is an absolute lie. For someone to have to get an
     experimental medical procedure to keep their job desecrated their democratic right to bodily autonomy as
     well as the Geneva Convention post war. Any person giving one of these vaccines to someone who had to
     get it to keep their job was trashing 'informed consent' and should be prosecuted.

6.   To be denied entry to various public facilities and cafes and restaurants because of not having taken a
     coerced medical procedure was utterly transgressive of our democracy and medical privacy, even more so
     for a viral infection that has less than 1% chance of death.



                                                                                                                    1
7.   To deny people access to their sick and dying family members because those visiting hadn't had the
     coerced medical procedure was absolutely cruel and inhumane and unforgiveable.

8.   If the Commonwealth Government and the TGA really cared about the health of the people of Australia
     they would have broadcast the fact that getting more sun exposure or taking vitamin D and getting your
     vitamin D up to lOOnmol/L or higher(125-150nmol/L) greatly reduces your risk of harm from a respiratory
     infection. They would have permitted the use of ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19
     infections as soon as someone got COVID-19 rather than telling people to stay home and only call the
     hospital if they couldn't breathe.

9.   The science is clear that a vaccine into the blood is never going to be satisfactorily efficacious for a
     respiratory infection.

10. To accuse the unvaccinated of creating a 'pandemic of the unvaccinated' was a scurrilous lie as those
    vaccinated have an increasingly debilitated immune system with each additional COVID-19 jab.

11. Mask wearing to prevent the virus COVID-19 from being inhaled was absolutely ludicrous, like erecting a
    picket fence to stop mosquitos from getting to your house. Viruses are smaller than bacteria and way way
    smaller than the holes in a mask. If anything wearing a mask serves to isolate people from their normal
    everyday human interactions and also means that people inhale more of their exhaled carbon dioxide so
    they become more acidic and more likely to become sick. It certainly appeared that the masks were more
    about control than anything. And to be able to sit down in a restaurant and eat without a mask but have to
    put your mask on if you stand up and for example go to the toilet -as if the virus only gets to people who
    are standing up and not eating - was nonsensical.

12. Paying the main stream media to advertise the COVID-19 vaccines meant that any stories against the 'safe
    and effective' vaccines were not aired and people were not alerted to the possibility for harm from the
    vaccines. Journalists were not permitted to do their investigative work or if they did their stories were not
    published.

13. To encourage children to take the COVID-19 vaccines was and still is utterly unnecessary. Children have a
    very close to zero risk of harm from COVID-19. To say that they had to be vaccinated using an experimental
    medical procedure to protect grandma and grandpa was and still is totally unnecessary. Whenever have
    we had to have a medical procedure to protect someone else? That was and still is manipulative
    propaganda.

14. Before the advent of COVID-19 and the vaccines myocarditis was a very serious illness. And now since
    COVID-19 it is 'mild' - another lie. Someone with myocarditis is at increased risk of heart attack and
    mustn't take strenuous exercise. The reason for the number of vaccinated young athletes suddenly
    dropping dead has not been investigated - is it to do with harm from the COVID-19 vaccines?

15. The TGA funding needs to be completely overhauled so that is is not funded by the pharmaceutical
    industry and therefore can do its job of protecting the Australian people properly rather than looking after
    the pharmaceutical industry's interests first.

16. AHPRA needs to be disbanded as a registering body for doctors because it has managed to fall between
    the States and the Commonwealth and so is operating without any accountability and not in the best
    interests of the Australian people.
                                                                                                                2
17. Australia needs to get out of the WHO. This unelected and secretive body is primarily a tool of Bill Gates
    and the pharmaceutical industry to make more business. Australia must keep its health sovereignty and
    get out of the WHO, also the World Economic Forum. Any prime minister of Australia who keeps
    Australia's membership to the WHO and agrees to the Pandemic Treaty (or Agreement or whatever the
    latest name is) and the Amendments to the International Health Regulations needs to be tried for Treason.

18. Any agreement with any pharmaceutical company for provision of treatments for the Australian
    population needs to be made freely available to all Australians, no more secretive and punitive
    agreements for medical procedures for which the company takes no liability. In fact drug companies
    providing products in Australia need to take full liability for their products, no more Australian
    Government taking liability for pharmaceutical products! I

19. The COVID-19 RAT test is not specific for COVID-19 and was never designed to show evidence of a current
    active viral infection- Kary B. Mullis, the inventor of this test, made it very clear that it couldn't be used to
    detect any disease. So it was never an acceptable and specific tool to determine the presence of active
    COVID-19 infection. The RAT tests served to amp up the incidence of COVID-19 infection in the population.

20. Asymptomatic COVID-19 carriers was another unproven lie to ramp up fear, mask-wearing and distancing
    in the population. There has been no history of 'asymptomatic' infections of COVID-19 viruses before -
    another convenient fabrication.

And finally, a week for public comment in the weeks before Christmas 2023 is just very clear that the
Government doesn't want to know what Australians have experienced and it doesn't want to find the truth.
And to report by Sept 2024 again indicates the Government wants to continue to obfuscate what actually
happened and the lessons.




                                                                                                                    3
