Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

    1. Why did the Government of the day abandon the science based Australian Health
       Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza (AHMP) in favour of the flawed response to
       COVID-19? Solution: In future adhere to the science based AHMP to manage future
       pandemics.
    2. Why did the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) ban the use/prescription of
       established, safe, repurposed dugs to treat COVID-19, in favour of unproven and unsafe
       mRNA (Gene therapy technologies) that were provisionally approved on the basis of a
       redefinition of the term vaccine? The use of Hydroxychloroquine (16 studies) showed a 76%
       reduction in mortality, and Ivermectin (51 studies) showed a 49% reduction in mortalities
       was rejected and in fact demonised through Government narrative. These drugs would have
       been considered if the AHMP had been utilised. Further to this the application of simple
       supplements such as Vitamin C, Zinc and Vitamin D are also proven aids in combatting the
       COVID-19 infection but were not promoted. Solution: In future adhere to the science based
       AHMP to manage future pandemics and listen carefully to leading epidemiologists,
       professors and doctors who outlined these treatments as early as March 2020 but were
       "cancelled".
    3. Why did the Government of the day, the opposition and bureaucrats fail to protect
       Australian citizens who were subject to mandatory vaccinations imposed by employers and
       the States/Territories on the basis of "no jab, no job"? Alternatively Australian citizens were
       also subject to financial or other inducements to get the jab, including narrative driven by
       Government and ably supported by media. These actions clearly breach Australia's
       constitution and yet the entire Federal political establishment including bureaucrats
       remained silent. Solution: In future adhere to the science based AHMP to manage future
       pandemics, and the political establishment needs to ensure that the MPs constituents are
       listened to and supported.
    4. Why did the Government of the day, the opposition and the Federal bureaucracy do nothing
       when to the TGA interfered in the doctor/patient relationship by prohibiting the prescription
       of cheap, established, safe medications to treat COVID-19. This has deliberately caused
       many doctors to breach their Hippocratic Oath and in a number of cases doctors have had
       their licence to practice medicine revoked. Solution: In future adhere to the science based
       AHMP to manage future pandemics and ensure that the TGA does not interfere adversely
       with the medical profession.



Brief Summary

The National interest must guide any objective review of the way in which we handled COVID-19 and
the WHO's one size fits all control of our future pandemic response must be rejected completely. The
pausing of further production and development of mRNA-based injections unless all toxicity issues
are clearly resolved. Whilst a Royal Commission would better serve Australia, I recognise that the
politicization of COVID-19 drives this inquiry. Without a complete understanding of both State and
Federal Governments and their associated bureaucracy, the Australian citizens are being failed by
their elected representatives once again.
