Safeguarding the Rights of People with Disability
Thank you for the opportunity to provide input into the Government's Response to
the COVID-19 Pandemic. Further information is provided in group submissions.
This submission examines the Commonwealth Government's response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, with a primary focus on the challenges faced by people with
disability in Australia. The analysis is guided by a human rights framework,
particularly the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disability (CRPD). The
submission delves into key areas, such as governance, health response measures,
broader health supports, international policies, industry and business support,
financial assistance, and community supports. It emphasises the need for a more
inclusive and ethical approach, considering the rights and safety of people with
disability in public spaces. It incorporates statistical data, international comparisons,
and recommendations for future pandemic responses, aligning with the principles
outlined in the UNCRPD.
1. The UNCRPD and Rights-Based Approach:
The UNCRPD, ratified by Australia in 2008, is the guiding framework for the rights of
persons with disability. It emphasises equality, non-discrimination, and the right to
participate fully in all aspects of life. Despite this, the pandemic has unearthed
systemic shortcomings in upholding these rights, particularly concerning the
prioritisation of disabled individuals in public health responses, including triage,
prioritisation of vaccination and other COVID safeguards. In 2020, I was President of
People with Disability Australia - our organisation headed up the DPOA response to
healthcare discrimination in triage settings. You can read our paper here.
2. Governance and Representation:
The Inquiry must scrutinise the effectiveness and transparency of governance
structures, especially National Cabinet, in considering the unique needs of people
with disability. The representation of disabled individuals in decision-making bodies is
crucial to ensuring that our voices are heard, and our specific concerns addressed. I
would encourage you to examine the experiences of the members of the expert
disability group,                                                 who repeatedly and
consistently raised written objections throughout the COVID response to the
dismissal of concerns about COVII safety for people with disability.
I would encourage you to revisit the efficacy and appropriateness of the response by
the then leadership to nterr ati s elatigns, the efficacy of messaging at the
commencement of the response and since that date, the lack of accessibility in both
communications and the overall response and the failure to ensure people with
disability were actively involved in the initial pandemic planning process.
3. Health Response Measures:
A comprehensive review of health response measures is necessary to evaluate the
equitable access of people with disability to COVID-19 vaccinations, treatments,
medical supplies (including PRE and antivirals) and disability care and support.
Statistics from both national and international contexts should be examined to
highlight discrepancies in access and emphasise the need for a rights-based
approach. Excess mortality should be examined carefully                      s an expert
in this area and has provided valuable advice to our sector in a disability context - to
provide insight into the deaths of disabled people since the beginning of 2020,
compared to previous years. The self reporting mechanism with NDIS Quality and
Safeguarding should not be solely relied on - cross matching should be carried out
between NDIS, DSP, Jobseeker and COVID mortality data to assist with
understanding the impact of COVID on the mortality of disabled Australians.
4. Broader Supports:
There were specific challenges faced by people with disability, including people with
psychosocial disability in accessing mental health treatment and suicide prevention
supports. The impact of disruptions to routine healthcare services on individuals with
pre-existing conditions or impairments should be thoroughly examined, as should the
restrictions imposed on those living in congregate settings. In 2020, a position paper
was authored by DPOA (in conjunction with PWDA) which discussed segregation in
a non-COVID context - as we now know, segregated and congregate settings are
settings where COVID has most negative impact. Disabled people (including people
disabled as a result of age) are far more likely to die from COVID, but those in aged
care and hospital settings are dozens of times more likely to acquire COVID. In
2023, NSW has dropped COVID precautions in hospitals, including use of
respirators by staff; as a result, there has been an escalation of hospital acquired
COVID in hospital settings. Many disabled people are refusing hospital treatment for
fear of contracting the condition, often with negative health outcomes.
5. International Policies:
The effectiveness of international policies in safeguarding the rights and well-being
of Australians with disability must be assessed, especially in regard to compliance
with the UNCRPD. (Articles 10,12, 25, 11 and 4(3). Specific attention should be
given to securing vaccine supply deals that considered the unique needs of the
disability population, in line with the UNCRPD's emphasis on non-discrimination. The
number of vaccines which have been ordered will not meet the needs of the current
population, with many at risk Australians unable to secure a suitable vaccine and
others choosing not to vaccinate. There has been little effort to counter the
disinformation around vaccination which is rife on social media and which is also
being promoted through a number of political campaigns wagered by currently
serving Australian politicians and Senators. Attention should also be given to
procurement of vaccines and how processes were carried out during the COVID
response, especially around the areas of quarantine and vaccine procurement.
Some transactions and proposed transactions should potentially be referred to the
NACC.
6. Disinformation and Misinformation:
A crucial aspect to examine revolves around the rampant spread of misinformation
by anti-vaxxers. This misinformation campaign has contributed to instilling fear of the
vaccine among the general population, encouraging people to refrain from
vaccination and refusing to follow COVID precautions. Of particular concern is the
targeting of vulnerable individuals, exploiting their uncertainties and fears. In one
case, a disabled mother and daughter took their lives in a murder-suicide; in another,
a man carried out a murder. These tragedies highlight the detrimental impact of anti­
vaccine rhetoric on public health efforts, emphasising the urgent need for
counteractive measures to safeguard the well-being of vulnerable populations and
promote informed decision-making regarding vaccination.
7. Financial Support for Individuals:
An examination of the adequacy of income support payments for people with
disability should be conducted. Statistics should be examined to demonstrate the
potential financial strain exacerbated by the pandemic and the need for targeted
financial assistance. For many people with disability, the cost of disability (including
for essential medications, PRE and other protective measures) are ongoing; issues
such as having to attend mutual obligations with Centrelink for Jobseeker mean that
clinically vulnerable people have to endanger themselves in order to meet their
contractual obligations with government to receive income support.
8. Community Supports:
There should be an examination into the effectiveness of community support
measures for people with disability in areas such as education, employment,
housing, and domestic violence prevention in the context of COVID responses. A
rights-based lens should be applied to ensure that these measures are not only
accessible but also inclusive for all. Recommendations should include flexible work
and education choices which do not force at risk populations to expose themselves
to COVID in order to receive basic supports. In addition, people with disability must
be able to receive safe, effective supports from the NDIS and other support
mechanisms.
9. Mechanisms to Better Target Future Responses:
Recommendations should highlight the need for tailored responses addressing the
intersectionality of disability with other factors. Disabled individuals and our
representative organisations should be actively involved in decision-making
processes, consistent with the UNCRPD principles of participation and non­
discrimination.
10. The Safety of People with Disability in Public Spaces:
The lack of prioritisation during the pandemic has left people with disability unsafe in
public spaces, breaching Australia’s obligations under the CRPD. Australians with
disability have the right to be part of the world - Australia’s Disability Strategy should
be updated to reflect the impact of natural disasters, including the global pandemic,
and to ensure that our right to access public spaces is enshrined in all domestic
legislative measures. This should include a review of the Disability Discrimination
Act.
                                                            Samantha Connor, 15.12.23
