                                                    1


To the panel for the Commonwealth Government Covidl9 Response Inquirv

Thank you for the opportunity to put in a submission.

We are newly retired from teaching and engineering. We write to you in our capacity as a concerned
citizens, who were utterly, utterly appalled by the excessive power that the Commonwealth
Government took unto itself when it junked the already existing Tony Abbott Government plan for
how to deal with a pandemic.



Key Health Response Measures

The Government then began implementing an ad-hoc series of actions which, we were told, were all
based on the advice of experts' and on 'the science'. Our concern is that evidence of the scientific
basis, or the track record for the 'expert' advice, was never provided, nor even alluded to.

When the Commonwealth Chief Medical Officer, announced to the nation that the Covid 19 jabs
were 'safe and effective', he erred most egregiously^




The Australian Government followed the advice of the WHO and decreed that PCR tests should be
used to diagnose cases of suspected Covidl9 infection. However^^^^^^fthe inventor of the PCR
test, for which he won a Nobel Prize, had always made it clear that the PCR test is not a test for
diagnosing any specific illness. Because the PCR test is highly sensitive to the number of cycles used,
it can return high numbers of false positives as explained in t   /ideo.

Vaccines are nowhere near as safe as Prof. Brendan Murphy stated. Astra Zeneca was the first to be
pulled from the market due to the incidence of blood clots in the brain. Pfizer was found to be
associated with causing myocarditis in young men. That connection was established, and Pfizer was
forced to add a warning to their label roughly at July/August 2021. Furthermore, according to the
adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) reported to the Western Australian Vaccine Safety
Surveillance (WAVSS) system in 2021, the number was significantly higher (approximate 39 times!)
due to the Covid-19 vaccination program. See the Western Australian Vaccine Safety Surveillance -
Annual Report 2021.

The wearing of masks was always going to be controversial. Many top scientists and doctors said
right at the beginning of the Covidl9 outbreak that masks should not be worn. A mask restricts
normal air flow and breathing and has the potential to cause any existing viruses to be activated in
the wearer.



Governance, including the role of the Commonwealth Government

Because of the strong contrary opinions from world class experts, the wearing of masks should never
have been mandated by the authorities but left to the discretion of the wearer.

Covid-19 was primarily an old people's illness, therefore lockdowns of the entire population were
horribly excessive. The elderly and health compromised individuals should have been advised to
shelter in place while others should have been free to go about their lives as usual as they did in
                                                    2


Sweden. As children were hardly affected at all by Covid-19 it was cruel to keep children out of
school. They missed out on education and their social development for no benefit at all.

This dictatorial attitude from the Government led to very un-Australian behaviour by the police
trying to enforce unenforceable rules. Examples are old grannies being knocked to the ground and
pepper sprayed, a young pregnant woman being arrested in front of her children for wanting to
arrange a meeting, as well as other incidents that have been well documented by Sky News.

Under the guise of a medical emergency our government was both trashing the economy and ruining
many a small business and incurring an eye watering level of debt with the consequences becoming
visible now with a high level of inflation due to all the extra money spread around the country.

The worst aspect of all was the 'vaccine' mandate. The government should never have allowed any
entity to enforce a vaccine mandate. No politician or government official should ever have told
people to get vaccinated for community responsibility reasons. As shown above, there never was any
evidence provided that the jabs would stop the spread of the virus. We had to put up with the NSW
Minister for Health insulting the public telling them they were idiots for not getting the jab. His
comment was never based on science.

Because children were relatively unaffected by Covidl9, it was irresponsible to inject them with an
experimental drug, never before used in humans, and which has since been shown to have
significant side effects.

The way in which lockdowns and vaccine mandates were enforced made the country feel like a
fascist dictatorship. All deviating opinions were forcefully suppressed. People protesting the
lockdowns were arrested. This was not the Australia we immigrated to nearly forty years ago.

Any alternate treatments could not be discussed in the medical profession without severe backlash
by the authorities. According to the GP we talked to, GPs had been instructed not to discuss
Ivermectin and not to authorise blood tests to check for existing Covid immunity. Vaccines were the
only prevention methods to be discussed. This top down control interferes substantially with the
Doctor/Patient relationship.

Especially during exceptional times like the pandemic, open communication and debate is absolutely
necessary to avoid a repeat of the poor outcome we have seen in this pandemic. Because of the
extreme overreaction by the government, we now have to live with the consequences of high
inflation, excessive business failures, mounting government debt, skyrocketing mental health issues,
suicides, and missed education for children. Again, shown by the example of Sweden, none of this
was necessary.

Importantly it appears that the TGA did not play an active role in assessing the details of the Covid
vaccines prior to authorising their use. It seems as though they simply rubber-stamped information
from America. See Senator Rennick's detailed questioning of Prof. Murphy in a Senate Estimates
hearing about toxicity tests not done, Spike protein distribution tests not done and the assurance
that the spike protein stays close to the injection site being proven not correct. Please note that the
Government medical official had no answers to these questions and he dismissed the topic of
adverse reactions without providing any proof.



Lastly, we are very concerned about the language/the terminology used by health authorities
throughout the pandemic. Officials cited 'experts' and 'the science', when in fact experts deviating
                                                 3


from the official narrative were excluded and silenced. As documented by the testimony of |
      it the EU Parliament, the science was not followed, and shortcuts were taken. Especially
heinous was the labelling of the mRNA injections as vaccines when they more accurately should have
been labelled as gene therapy as documented in this article: mRNA: Vaccine or Gene Therapy? The
Safety Regulatory Issues - PMC (nih.gov)



Yours sincerely

Hazel and Jurgen Kleinau
