The specific area I would like to cover is Key health response measures but some of my story
may also fall into other areas mentioned in the scope.

The Few main points I would like to raise are:

    1. How devastating COVID-19 countermeasures have been, particularly the "no jab, no
       job" policies.
   2. How devastating was the treatment, which was Vaccines only, put as a directive, and
       were the only option given when other less risky methods could have been used.
       When questioning the contents of the vaccines, nowhere could you find any answers
       at that time.
   3. How devastating it was, having to wear a mask as a teacher who continuously uses
       their voice to teach. I urge you to look into the efficacy and risks of wearing a mask.
       See attachment.
   4. I went to see a GP regarding obtaining information for my consent to the directive. I
       put forward important questions but the GP could not answer them. The expectation
       that we give up our right to informed consent is wrong. This too needs to be
       addressed.


Hi my name is Cedric. I declare that it was not in the employment conditions when I became
a permanent full time teacher to be subjected to the directive which was to be vaccinated or
be suspended without pay. I have raised many questions, none have been answered. I replied
to all correspondences related to the directive and have asked many times to get informed
and valid consent to follow such directive. During that time I was healthy willing and ready
to go to work and I have endured the stress of not being able to work in my profession. This
of course placed further stress in my home life and I had to resort to take sick leave and long
service leave at half pay to support my family. I was suspended for six months. This is
discrimination.

Moreover, I was asked to come back to work in term 3 2022 and then received a letter on
the 1st of August informing me that because I did not follow the directive I would be
penalised with disciplinary action of reduction of remuneration, from ESA - 02 to ESA - 01, for
a further period of 20 weeks.

I demand that justice prevail and demand that harm done to be rectified. The Covid 19
vaccination mandate on teachers has caused great stress and destabilisation to the schools
and I have many colleagues whom did not want to partake in the mandate but were forced
by the threat offinancial constraint via the suspension. I have lost the following: from the
10/02/2022 to 29/06/2022 was forced not to work and the total amount of hours were
367.5 hrs at             hour bringing a total               ; I had to resource to 225h of sick
leave and 62.5 hrs of long service leave at half pay to support the family which is the
equivalent of 287.5 hours at my rate of S^^^which equates to                    I have spent
$72.05 with all registered post to the Department of Education . GP consultations and time
taken to travel and prepare all correspondence and replies equates to              you can see
a lot of time and money. Without informed and valid consent I could not comply as there
was a complete lack of transparency and evidence into why I should take the vaccine. Where
there is risk, there must be individual choice. The cost for ongoing stress through this ordeal
cannot be measured. During Covid time I asked to be provided with a WPHS risk assessment
for my specific circumstance and workplace at the State School as it is a necessary part of
any workplace reguirement and to this day I have not received one. I have seen many things
in the workplace that did not make sense. We had all distancing measured put in place in the
classroom but when it was playtime no distancing was followed. I have not known anyone
yet who died from covid but have met many with adverse reactions from the covid vaccine.
When I look at the excess deaths statistics from the government web site since the
introduction of the vaccine, it is alarming to say the least.



As an Educator we are taught, and we teach that knowledge is everything and that being
inclusive and treating others with kindness, dignity and respect with our human rights is
paramount as human being.

To give informed and valid consent before proceeding with taking the vaccines, I asked
guestions of many different personnel from the Department of Education. I asked if they
could show me evidence and proof of safety so I could confidently choose to take the
vaccine.

If there is any future health threats, these are the kind of guestions that need answers
before wreaking havoc with lock downs, masks, check ins and vaccines.

It is my humble opinion that the handling of Covid 19 created more suffering and lasting
damage to the populace than the sickness itself.

Please show me:

      1-         Irrefutable proof that vaccinated people cannot still catch and transmit Covidl9.
      2- Irrefutable proof that for me to obtain an exemption from taking this vaccine, I
           must prove that I have poor health issues that would be exacerbated by the many
           known adverse events of the vaccine, while, because I am healthy, the likelihood
           for me surviving natural exposure to Covidl9 and its variants is more than 99% and
           if I do survive, I shall have natural immunity from it. If this is true, what is the risk
           to benefit ratio of taking this vaccine?
      3- Irrefutable proof that these vaccinations offer greater protection than natural
           immunity attained from having had COVID19.
      4- Irrefutable proof that vaccinations offer greater protection to the person and our
           school community than other forms of testing and available medications, natural
           or otherwise.
      5- Irrefutable proof that all federal MP, GP and Lecturers at universities along with
           certain Police service staff have not been granted automatic exemption. If this
           mandate is for our health and safety benefit, why are some exempted?
Equity before the law, the most fundamental of human rights, is the right to be treated
equally before the law; that is, to be subject to laws applied generally and without
discrimination: Human rights Act 2019 (Qld)s 15.
6- Show me proof that you do not have to provide Risk Assessment in my workplace
   please?
7- Can you show me the evidence that proves following this mandate is safe and
   effective?
8- Can you show me how my GP can give me specific and individual health advice for
   my personal circumstances when their governing body; ARPRA prevents them
   from doing so?
9- Proof of the approved legal status of all Covid-19 vaccines, their trial status and
   trial end date.
10- Proof of the TGA approval of the vaccinations after they fully reviewed the trial
   studies.
11- Irrefutable proof that the vaccines have been fully and independently and
   rigorously tested against control groups and the subsequent outcomes of these
   tests
12- Full list of ingredients, including all undisclosed contents, from the vaccine
   manufacturers including testing results for carcinogenicity, toxicology, and effects
   on reproductive organs.
13- Irrefutable proof that the QLD Department of Health can legally and lawfully
   mandate vaccinations for QLD independent schools staff referring to the
   legislation, Act and the Section.
14- Studies completed and results showing irrefutable proof that mask-wearing stops
   the spread of all strains of the Sars CoV2 (COVID) virus.
15- Irrefutable proof that the PCR testing used in QLD is conducted at 24 cycle
   threshold and irrefutable proof that PCR testing can identify it as a live cell, can
   differentiate between the various strains of SARS, can differentiate between a
   living SARS CoV2 and dead SARS CoV2 cell and irrefutable proof that PCR testing
   can distinguish between SARS CoV2 and Influenza.
16- . Irrefutable proof that a QLD Public Health Order can be legally applied by All
   State school to mandate staff to be vaccinated, under any circumstance to
   override the rights of the individual as provided under the Nuremberg code,
   referring to the Legislation, Act and Section
17- Irrefutable proof that all state school and the Department of Education will take
   full legal and financial responsibility for all injury, loss, damage or death to any
   employee as a result of the demand by QED for the Covid-19 vaccinations, for the
   lifetime of the employee until the employee's death even if the employee ceases
   to be employed by the department of Education.
18- Irrefutable proof that I will not be under DURESS from my employer, Department
   of Education, to take the vaccination and are in compliance with the Nuremberg
   code.
