Dr Michael Czajka




8/12/23



COVID-19Inquiry@pmc.gov.au.

                  Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Sir/Madam,

My background includes health sciences, a PhD in Chemistry (among other qualifications)
and a major in law.

The issues:
Under S51 of the constitution, the Commonwealth has powers to make laws for
(ix) Trade and commerce with other countries and states
(ix) Quarantine

There are many other areas within the federal domain where the Commonwealth could have
asserted its powers.

The response:
The Commonwealth has abrogated its responsibilities under the Constitution during the
Covid response. Instead of leading the states it followed. Instead of ensuring a unified
response we got a piecemeal state-by-state response.

Recommendation:
The Commonwealth should have taken the lead on quarantine issues... rather than letting the
states decide what to do. It has resulted in a piecemeal approach to COVID-19 and many
unjust, excessive and poorly considered interventions. The interventions were often political
rather than scientifically warranted e.g. Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews made decisions
about lockdowns without his chief medical officer being present and despite advice that
lockdowns were not necessary.

The issue:
The states' responses also interfered with trade and commerce with other states and countries.
I and many others lost work due to the lockdowns.

The response:
Many Australians wrote to the Commonwealth asking for assistance in tempering these
intemperate state responses without any visible effect.
Example:
I was doing work at Lang Lang (country area) working with only 1-3 other people. Despite
this, I was prevented from going on site because the landlord (property owner) had banned
unvaccinated individuals from entering the site. The provision of an exemption certificate
was not sufficient to allow me on-site N.B. My employers did not require vaccination.

I have                   and any myocarditis or pericarditis (or other side effect) could kill
me. I did not want to risk vaccination with an mRNA vaccine (I am otherwise fully
vaccinated). My doctor(s) agreed that such vaccination was undesirable but were unwilling to
provide an exemption because they were worried they would be deregistered: AHPRA listed
a very narrow range of reasons for issuing vaccination exemptions. It was only after I got
COVID-19 (a mild illness) that I finally got a vaccination exemption N.B. My immune
system works just fine so my risk is low. My age also puts me at lower risk.

Recommendation:
Doctors should be allowed to use their best judgement whether a patient should be given an
exemption. Doctors should not be threatened with deregistration, investigation and loss of
income for engaging in debate on COVID-19 issues or providing exemptions e.g.
                  who is still unable to work.

Recommendation:
Non-mRNA Covid vaccines such as the Australian-produced “Vaxine” should have been
supported and offered as an alternative.

Outcomes:
The inability to work resulted in a significant loss of income and the project we were working
on was significantly delayed.

Of the other people on site one finally got vaccinated and later boosted under duress.
The other one was happily vaccinated till he got his booster shot and got sick. After that, he
decided not to take any more boosters. He is still unwell.
My other co-worker has a demonstrated allergic response to vaccinations and was unable to
get an exemption... even though a vaccination could kill him or at least make him very sick.
As a result, he was not allowed on site.

People who had reasonable reasons for declining vaccination were discriminated against by
bureaucracies that didn’t understand the issues they were dealing with. Decisions to vaccinate
were made under duress i.e. Coercion. Governments were playing with people’s lives.

Recommendation:
Governments and bureaucrats need to be held responsible for their decisions. Currently, poor
decision-making at the government level has no (or few) consequences. People need to be
held accountable for their actions. Governments should not be making binding health
decisions for people as their decision-making is too erratic to trust.

Conclusions:
Australians are disappointed that the Commonwealth government did not temper the states'
responses to COVID-19 by legislating to bring some coherence at the Federal level. This
resulted in poorly considered interventions, a massive blowout in costs and poor outcomes.
Yours sincerely




Dr Michael Czajka PhD (Chemistry)
Dip App Sc Nursing
Grad Dip Computing
B Bus Accounting
Grad Dip Education
