During the government labelled pandemic, people like myself and my family were
discriminated and vilified for exercising our right to bodily autonomy. The advice from
the vaccine handbook that no person should be coerced or pressured was ignored.
Not one person whom took the jab, gave informed content, as this implies long term
effects are known, which they are not.
We have lost friendships and family connections at the behest of government and
mainstream media propaganda, bombarding society with lies.

The so-called vaccine is not a vaccine, it does not prevent illness or stop
transmission, and simply redefining what constitutes a vaccine doesn't make it one.
The draconian laws and lockdowns implemented by our elected officials are none
short of terrorism of the Australian people. The people involved as far as I’m
concerned are terrorists, should be treated as such, and be held accountable for
their actions.
I left my employment as an Orthopaedic Nurse, and will never return to the
profession after what I witnessed and experienced at the hands of the Government.
Rest assured; we will not stop until every single person responsible is held to
account for the damage they have done.
The psychological torture and stress we were put through, the financial stress due to
border closures making it impossible to travel to work to support my family, the
savings we have lost due to lockdowns, online bullying, the discrimination due to our
refusal to take an unproven drug, which has zero long term safety data, is just the tip
of the iceberg.
The amount of professionals who were silenced when they questioned the narrative
is unfathomable. The fact that mainstream media and social media censored people,
especially the likes of Dr Robert Malone, the inventor of MRNA technology, shows
this was planned and coordinated to manipulate people, and incite segregation and
discrimination between people.
The government is in place to serve it's citizens, not control, dictate and bully us. It
seems they've forgotten who holds the real power and the money that pays their
wages.
We the people demand a proper inquiry, one that delves deep into government
emails, texts and deals done with big Pharma.
We demand justice and we will not stop until it's served.
We recently lost an Aunt^H, whom was in in good health. She went to hospital for
a fall, and was placed nexHo a patient who was known to have covid. She then
contracted covid and later passed away due to the illness. Despite have every
booster recommended.

This is a huge slap in the face for all of us who were forced inside our homes and out
of businesses, missed family events and passing of loved ones.
As Senator Malcolm Roberts stated, we know it was all          and we will hound you
down until justice is served and those responsible are held accountable.
We know about the amount of draconian legislation rushed through parliament
during emergency powers, with bipartisan support.
It is clear by their actions, that our governments are not working for us, and we want
them out and put on trial for treason as terrorists.
