My name is Dr Lorraine Baker, a GP who owns (with her husband who                         and
operates a general practice in the inner eastern suburbs of Melbourne.
I have practised there for more than 40 years and have seven colleagues working with me - all
female, all mothers of children ranging from infancy to young adult.
I have underlying health problems of my own.
We continue to provide the highest standard of infection control onsite - with expensive self­
funded modifications to the building to allow fresh air ventilation, Hepa Filters in every space,
CO2 monitors in every space to assess air quality and an ongoing mandate for masks to be
worn in the building by staff, doctors and patients aged 8 years and older.
It is no longer a concern simply for transmission of Covid-19 - but other airborne pathogens
which are increasingly prevalent.

2. What are your suggestions and feedback about the role of the Federal Government,
National Cabinet, the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) and/or


   a) My feedback regarding the role played by AHPPC is that it was understood initially that
      worldwide we were dealing with an infectious organism for which we were learning on
      the run. It was absolutely necessary to manage using the first principles of infection
      control which would have acknowledged that aerosol transmission was always a
      possibility ( even if not confirmed until later). It was necessary to take apparently
      draconian measures until knowledge increased.
   b) Advice given to government from Australia’s Chief Medical Officer was initially adequate
      but failed to acknowledge aerosol transmission was possible. By debunking aerosol
      transmission as a risk - a community mistrust was created and when aerosol
      transmission was eventually acknowledged, this affected community confidence and
      engagement in simple measures such as ventilation and mask wearing.
   c) The personal impact of the decisions made by National Cabinet and other bodies -
      made daily planning for effective safe and compliant operation within the guidelines and
      eligibility criteria fortesting, vaccinations and Covid 19 management ( and eventually
      eligibility for anti-viral therapy)

       I would suggest that practising GPs, pharmacists, and other frontline health care workers
       (HCW) have a portal provided to feedback how this plays out at the coal face.

3. What are your suggestions and feedback about key health response measures, e.g.
COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective
equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging?

In my personal experience, COVID-19 vaccinations and/or treatments have been restricted in
ways that now contribute to excessive waste of the available supplies. GPs and other
vaccinators should be given opportunity to deliver vaccines across all age groups where
supplies are available.
One of the saddest situations is that we are allowing children under the age of 5 to be
repeatedly infected with SARS-Cov 2 and at an observational level this is creating a population
of immunocompromised young people. My practice has never seen and/or documented so
many recurrent infections in young children. This keeps them from their educational settings,
requires their parents to be unavailable for their employment and respectively impairs the
developmental progress of the child and reduces productivity within the workforce.

The Federal Health department could improve Public Health messaging by having consistent
and ongoing health promotion at the very least - alerting the population to the benefits of
checking ventilation, ongoing booster vaccination and self-protection with mask wearing in
crowded indoor settings.

4. What are your suggestions and feedback about international policies with regard to
securing vaccine supply deals?
The impact of the government’s vaccine eligibility policy on my practice has led to frustration for
both doctors, nurses and patients( who with informed consent would happily have received
booster vaccines outside arbitrary guidelines - e.g. why can’t carers of the immuno­
compromised receive regular boosters, also HCWs who have increased occupational
exposure?)

5. What are your suggestions and feedback about financial support for individuals?
I have limited experience with this.

6. What are your suggestions and feedback about support for industry and businesses?
Labour shortages can only be addressed if we maintain the highest standards of workplace
safety - which includes infection control - minimum ventilation standards, PPE, regular
surveillance testing.

7. What are your suggestions and feedback about community supports?
Clear and consistent guidelines to stay at home when infectious (i.e. any symptoms -
particularly respiratory but also any febrile illness) should be supported across workplaces to
minimise cross infections and escalation of workforce shortage.

8. What are your suggestions and feedback about targeted govt response to the needs of
particular populations?
Recognise that the illness commonly referred to as Long Covid - disproportionately affects
women. Women also represent the majority of the paid and unpaid caring workforce. To have a
minimum 10% unable to work at any given time suggests prevention, prevention, prevention is
key to allow some abatement of this ongoing depletion of individual and community wellbeing.
Funds should be directed to research around managing and treating Long Covid
9. What are your suggestions and feedback for “improving Australia’s preparedness for
(current and) future pandemics”?

Australia would be better prepared for current and future pandemics if the government
acknowledged that retaining the quarantine facilities which were activated or created in each
jurisdiction were maintained in a state for re-commissioning if needed.
Acknowledging hospital services are a shared Federal and State funding responsibility - each
jurisdiction should have a designated centre of excellence in Infectious diseases management
for treating outbreaks of significant/previously unknown infections ( e.g. as per Fairfield
 Infectious diseases hospital)
