Dr Stephen McGrath Submission to Commonwealth Government C-19 Response Enquiry



The PM has gone back on his promise to hold a Royal Commission that would have covered all
matters and all jurisdictions and has instead opted for a very weak and limited enquiry with powers
well short of what is sorely needed. I can only hope that this enquiry reveals the need for a full Royal
Commission. I will nevertheless make some comments that are relevant to the first term of
reference. The rest of the terms of reference will inevitably ignore the devastating issues of jab
injuries and deaths and focus on unnecessary and draconian ways of introducing tighter surveillance
which is greatly against the interests of the Australian people. More efficient, forced mass poisoning
is not an acceptable outcome.

I consider the Enquiry needs to investigate and report on:

    1.   Full details of the vaccine contracts. There can be no acceptable claim to commercial in
         confidence reasons preventing disclosure. Avoidance of disclosure is not in the public
         interest when public money is being spent. It is also not acceptable when fraud has been
         committed.
    2.   The reasons that the pre-existing evidence based 2019 pandemic plan was abandoned and
         measures that were contrary to its evidence base were nevertheless adopted, such as masks,
         border closures and travel restrictions.
    3.   National Cabinet's ongoing support for AHPRA's lack of due diligence on safety, its silence on
         vaccine harm and its actions along with ATAGI in silencing any of the Medical Profession who
         followed their conscience, common sense and Hippocratic oath.
    4.   Failure of government media releases and mainstream media, including the public
         broadcaster, the ABC, to address or report lack of both efficacy and safety as these became
         known.
    5.   Why the onus of proof was reversed for this vaccine in this country. Previous vaccines looked
         for the slightest possibility of vaccine related injury and reasonable suspicion was sufficient
         to allow harmful ones to be stopped. With C-19, this was completely reversed, with
         defensive officials seeking to find proof of harm, which was initially impossible, but soon
         became evident and is still being ignored in defence of private for-profit companies that the
         government still seems to be trying to protect at the expense of its own people.
    6.   The reason why the demonisation of people continued on the basis of saving granny and the
         kids when this had absolutely no basis in fact, as had become evident only a few months into
         the pandemic.
    7.   Why the mass sacking numbers went unreported and unacknowledged, generating staff
         shortages that continue to cause ambulance ramping to this day, as well as the general
         labour shortage in all industries across the country.

If this enquiry simply asserts that all the adverse information was false, it can only be regarded as a
gaslighting/ whitewashing exercise to protect those who were either incompetent or guilty.

If you are in any doubt about the falsity of the officially approved narrative, this NZ government data
shows a 25-30% death rate from the supposedly 'safe & effective' C-19 jabs in some places.
https://uncensored.co.nz/2023/ll/30/freenz-m-o-a-r-mother-of-all-revelations-excess-death-
figures/?v=8e3eb2c69al8 The data presentation comes in after 16 mins.

This link also gives data showing similar things in text form. https://kirschsubstack.com/p/medicare-
death-data-proves-the-covid?utm source=profile&utm medium=reader2

This video does likewise with data being presented between 1:07 & 1:22 mins
https://www.facebook.com/MichaelGrayGriffth/videos/373962188541490
