                                                                                      1




                                         CHRISTIAN
                                      VOICE AUSTRALIA
                                     Advocacy from a Biblical Perspective




                                 Submission
                                    into
          The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce

Who is Christian Voice Australia (CVA)?
CVA is a national non-denominational Christian organisation advocating on
issues of family, faith, and freedom with a view to defending and promoting
life. We work to ensure that those in power respect human dignity and
individuals' rights.
About the Australian Director
Greg Bondar is a social, political, economic, and faith commentator
advocating for pro-life issues. He has been quoted in most national
newspapers, heard on national radio ABC, 2GB, and 6PR., and has appeared
before numerous state and federal committees of inquiries.
Greg has been CEO of major national and international advocacy, industry,
professional, and charity organisations. He was also at one time a Senior
Adviser to a federal government Minister.
He has worked for numerous pro-life and Christian organisations and is the
national Media Spokesman for the advocacy organisation Christian Voice
Australia (CVA).
Our Submission
It's so important that we as individuals or organisations each have our say
on the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce inquiry.

This submission is in two Parts:
1. Five Reasons Why Vaccine Passports are an Ethical Disaster
See the attached PDF file.
2. Research
The research below shows the impact of COVID-19 on Mental Health given
that the mental health impact of COVID-19 was the most overlooked issue
by the government and our health services.
OVERVIEW

                                                 \. CVA/


                                  Website - Facebook - Twitter
                                     Head Office: Sydney NSW
                        Postal Address: PO Box 3251 Blakehurst NSW 2221
           E: christianvoiceaustralia@qmail.com M:              T: +61(2) 9546 1898
                                                                                               2



In the near future, efforts will be necessary to help the frontline helpers,
i.e., to assist staff by increased guidance from managers, supervision and
spaces to unwind in order to lessen staff burden and prevent burnout. The
government needs to focus specific attention in pandemic regulations as
their role in helping some of the most vulnerable groups to endure such a
time of crisis cannot be underestimated.

What impact has the COVID-19 epidemic had on mental health?

In a USA 2021 study, nearly half of those surveyed reported recent
symptoms of an anxiety or depressive disorder, and 10% of respondents
felt their mental health needs were not being met. Rates of anxiety,
depression, and substance use disorder have increased since the beginning
of the pandemic.

The COVID-19 pandemic hit most parts of the world at the beginning of
2020 unpreparedly. When countries decided on measures to protect the
population from the spread of the virus and healthcare systems from
collapsing under the burden of too many patients in need of intensive care,
many aspects of daily life changed.

Public health crises are disproportionally associated with an increasing
burden of psychological suffering and mental health (MH) problems in the
population, especially among those with pre-existing psychological
vulnerabilities. Recent research is showing that the psychological effects of
the COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictive measures are far-reaching for
the general population, for healthcare professionals and for people with pre­
existing MH problems.

In humanitarian crisis and public emergency situations,                                protocols
recommend an increased focus on psychological support.

However, in the COVID-19 pandemic the primary response across most
countries seems to have been a segmented medical response - the focus
was mostly on preventing the spread of the virus rather than a unified
response of all healthcare sectors addressing the emergency situation in a
way that included its potential psychological effects.

Christian Voice Australia (CVA) wrote to the Prime Minister at the time
without even an acknowledgment of our concern about the impact of the
pandemic on Mental health.




                                    Website - Facebook - Twitter
                                      Head Office: Sydney NSW
                        Postal Address: PO Box 3251 Blakehurst NSW 2221
           E: christianvoiceaustralia@qnnail.conn M:             T: +61(2) 9546 1898
                                                                                       3


Mental health services (MHS) encompass any intervention or therapy,
including the assessment, diagnosis, treatment, or counselling, offered in
inpatient, outpatient, private, or public settings for the maintenance or
enhancement of MH or the treatment of psychological disorders. The
organisation of MHS differ within and across countries, varying from
community-based services to psychiatric hospital-based care. More details
on MHS globally can be found in the Mental Health Atlas, published by
the WHO which provides up-to-date information on MHS, MH policy and MH
systems worldwide since 2001 (WHO, 2021).

Already before the COVID-19 pandemic, the WHO found a substantiated
MH treatment gap between the number of people with psychological
disorders and the number receiving treatment.

The challenges posed for healthcare systems by the COVID-19 pandemic
are unprecedented. However, research on other major crises, such as the
Ebola virus disease, has shown that these emergency situations tend to
result in impaired provision of healthcare and of mental healthcare in
particular, while at the same time increasing the need for adequate
responses of MHS.

Although being a respiratory disease, COVID-19 has affected the services
caring for the needs of people with MH problems around the world. In
Germany, for instance, psychiatric clinics reduced their inpatient treatment
capacity by 40% relative to the time before the onset of the pandemic and
length of hospital stays as well as emergency hospital admissions decreased
significantly in the first phase of the pandemic. At the same time, around
the world, MHS tried to guarantee continuity of care by introducing
telepsychiatry which might represent a historical transformation emerging
from the crisis. The term telepsychiatry (TP) is used here to refer to MHS
(including psychosocial care and psychotherapy) that are provided via
digital means (e.g., video call) or telephone.

While the move to TP seems to have been an overarching response of MHS
globally, there is still little systematic knowledge about the positive and
negative impacts of the pandemic on MHS provision.

Next Steps

By conducting a systematic review of the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia,
the Review needs to ask the following question:

    Which changes did mental health services experience during and
    due to the COVID-19 pandemic?

                                    Website - Facebook - Twitter
                                      Head Office: Sydney NSW
                        Postal Address: PO Box 3251 Blakehurst NSW 2221
           E: christianvoiceaustralia@qnnail.conn M:             T: +61(2) 9546 1898
                                                                                         4




Greg Bondar
CVA
December 2023




                                                 &
                                                CVA


                                      Website - Facebook - Twitter
                                        Head Office: Sydney NSW
                           Postal Address: PO Box 3251 Blakehurst NSW 2221
              E: christianvoiceaustralia@qmail.conn M:             T: +61(2) 9546 1898
