                                                                                        15 December 2023
Dear Sir / Madam

         ■welcomes the opportunity to contribute to the Commonweaith Government’s
Inquiry into the COVID-19 Response.

      | is proud of the contribution it has made to the Australian Community during the
COVID-19 pandemic through the I




Following the global outbreak of COVID-19 in early 2020, the development of safe and
effective vaccines and treatments became the top priority of governments, medical_______
researchers and the medicines and vaccines industry. During this time,


                             vlodels have estimated that tens of millions of lives have been
saved because of these vaccines.1




Furthermore, the Australian Government’s strategy to establish and maintain a portfolio of
COVID-19 vaccines continues to serve Australia well, helping reduce the risk of severe
disease, hospitalisation and death from COVID-19 and reducing the associated impact on
the healthcare system and economy.

Although the end of the COVID-19 emergency response was officially declared on
20 October 2023, Australia’s Chief Medical Officer, alongside the Australian Health Protection
Principal Committee (AHPPC), reiterated that: “a focus remains on vaccination, prevention,



1 https://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/PIIS1473-3099(22)00417-0/fulltext
reducing transmission and management of serious illness, hospitalisations and death"2 as we
move towards the next phase of the public health response.

On this basis, and as Australia continues to reflect on the lessons learned throughout the
pandemic,!


to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel attention two important matters for considerations.

      1.    The ongoing importance of maintaining a portfolio approach to COVID-19 vaccine
           procurement and supply, as recommended by the Halton review in 2022.




Maintaining a portfolio approach to COVID-19 vaccine procurement and supply

As Australia enters its eighth COVID-19 wave,             encourages the Government to
remain vigilant to COVID-19 as an ongoing and evolving threat. The ebbs and flows of
COVID-19 cases are due to ongoing circulation within the community and evolving
mutations within the SARS-CoV-2 virus, with variants Eris (EG.5.1) and Pirola (BA.2.86)
responsible for the current spike in cases.

As of 6 December, Department of Health statistics on COVID-19 vaccination indicates that:
    -   Only 23 per cent of adults aged 75 and older received a 2023 booster dose in the last
        6 months.
    - Only 15 per cent of adults aged 65 to 74 received a 2023 booster dose in the last 6
        months.
    - Only 3.8 per cent of individuals aged 18 to 64 years have received a 2023 Booster
        Dose in the last six months

The consequences of declining vaccination rates could be severe as the virus continues to
cause more hospitalizations and deaths than influenza and health experts including
Australia’s Chief Medical officer continue to advocate for the need for ongoing vaccination
to prevent serious illness, hospitalization and death. In this context, it will be important to
continue to implement the seven accepted recommendations of the Independent Review
of COVID-19 Vaccine and Treatment Purchasing and Procurement (the ^^^J^eview) and
in particular the policy recommendation for 'the continuation of a portfolio approach to
vaccines and treatments.’

Within her review, Professor|^^^| praised the portfolio approach taken by the Australian
Government in their early procurement of COVID-19 vaccines and treatments. She notes
that a 'diverse portfolio of vaccines and treatments provides Australian’s flexibility of choice
and enables the government to address variants of concern in future’.

Specifically, maintaining a diverse portfolio of vaccine suppliers:
1. safeguards against unexpected disruptions experienced by a single supplier, thereby
   ensuring supply redundancy and uninterrupted access to vaccines,
2. empowers individuals and their healthcare providers to make informed decisions based
   on their specific needs and preferences, and
3. bolsters resilience against emerging variants, as choice enables the best protection
   against the evolving nature of the virus.

2   Statement from Australia's Chief Medical Officer, Professor Paul Kelly, on the end of the COVID-19 emergency response.
https://www.health.gov.au/news/end-of-covid-19-emergency-response?language=en
