To whom it may concern,

My name is Lachlan Maybery. I am a 30 year old Wtn generavon farmer working together with my
father and brother on our fam ly farmHHUIHBH

i am married wrth two young children, aged 7, 3

Less than 36 hours after the administration of my second Pfizer vaccine I suffered multiple
pulmonary embo sms. I have had every possible test recommended to me by numerous GP’s and
other doctors at emergency departments. They have found nothing that suggests l was at any risk of
having pulmonary embolisms The general consensus of all the doctors and specialists I have seen is
that 'You were one of the unfortunate ones that suffered a rare reaction to the Pfizer vaccine'



My general health before the pulmonary embolisms was excellent I was a generally fit, young 28
year old farmer, able to shear 140 sheep a day

    -    I have never smoked
         Do not drink
         Have never taken recreational drugs
         Was on no medications
         Have no family history of embolisms
         No pre existing health conditions



i have a vast array of medical documentation available as I under took every possible test that was
made available to me to try and find out what caused my injury. If it would be helpful I can provide
these as evidence

More than two years on from my injury I am now finally able to perform all required work duties
although I am nowhere as physically fit and able as I was and still have some I ngenng health
complications

My injury caused the family business to suffer subs antially and put my direct and extended family
under a lot of extra workload/pressure Out of goodwill they continued to pay me a wage whilst l
was incapacitated and unable to work for over a year i have had no compensation for any of my
medr al expenses My health insurance policy was unable to pay me because I could not get a doctor
to sign a document stating I had suffered a vaccine injury because none of them wanted to lose their
job.



I would like to submit my experiences of the Pfizer vaccine as evidence showing the following

    1    Vaccme injuries are far more common and not reported to the government or mentioned m
         statistics because they do not fit the narrow and rigid parameters that have been established
         per each vaccine.
    2    There is no financial support for victims or their families if they have a vaccine injury, that is a
         serious condition that is not recognised by the current vacc ne injury parameters
    3.   Not one of the Dr's I asked would put then job on the line and sign a document stating ( had
         suffered a vaccine injury because to quote It would most likely cost them then job This is
         blatantly anti-democratic behavior being exhibited by the government and medical
       authorities, pressuring the people who should have our best interests at heart - Dr's and
       specialists to be silent!
   4. As an extension of point 3 the censorship of medical practitioners/experts by AHPRA and
       ATAGI is unconscionable.
   5 The above points all converge to provide the government with data that is not accurate and
       Is in no way a true representation of how the vaccine roll out unfolded making the vaccines
       seem far less ‘riskier’ than they really are.
   6. I live in a small country area with a populaton of less than 400 people. Of these, 3 of us
       suffered blood clotting events following our covid vaccines. These odds to me seem very high
       for a 'safe' vaccine.
   7. The secrecy surrounding contracts with vaccine manufacturers and corrupt vaccine
       acquisitions.
   8. Coercion, short of blackmail due to government mandate - As a farmer relying on being able
       to deliver our grain and hay to the local receivals to sell for income, they informed growers
       they would not be able to deliver goods unless they could prove they had been vaccinated.
       This was a direct threat to our livelihoods. This was the only reason l decided to get
       vaccinated. On reflection, these sorts of mandates are certainly not democratic. I would say
       they verge on martial law. Or possibly even totally Illegal.
   9. At every attempt to elevate my injury to the appropriate authorities to try and help prevent
       other people from being exposed to the possible injuries from the Pfizer vaccine I was shut
       down and told it was totally safe. I even had one doctor tell me I should book In for my
       second booster as soon as I was feeling better.
   10. The official misinformation about the vaccines blocking covid transmission. Since my injury I
       have tested positive to covid 19 three times.



As a tax paying citizen living in a Commonwealth Democracy in the country of Australia -1 demand a
full-scale Royal Commission for a full investigation into the following:

   -   Transparency of all organisations and governing bodies relating to the mandating and vaccine
       rollout.
   -        Vaccine Injuries and the difficulty of meeting the eligibility criteria and making a claim.
   -   The expansion of injury definitions for all covid 19 vaccines and financial compensation
       appropriate for covering loss of income, medical expenses and undue suffering/hardship.
   -        Official misinformation about vaccines blocking transmission of covid 19.
   -        The repressive actions taken by multiple bodies to silence specialists and doctors.



If you require any further documentation or would like to discuss anything in greater detail, do not
hesitate to contact me.
