                                            UNOFFICIAL



I am a private free Australian who has been working in a clinical capacity in the public healthcare
system for approximately 10 years. My faith in the integrity and honesty of the Government and the
entire public healthcare system has been terminally affected by the years following the start of the
pandemic. Government and Corporate partnerships combined with secrecy and censorship from the
Australian people have been the primary drivers of this loss of trust.

The major issues plaguing Australia's pandemic response were:

Transparency

From the beginning of the pandemic Australian's were kept in an information vacuum apart from the
corporate media who fed us a steady diet of sensationalist fear porn. National cabinet was formed in
order that the federal government could implement their covid response via the State Premiers.
These meetings were kept secret, and the government fought tooth and nail to keep information
from the Australian people when former Senator Rex Patrick lodged a FOI request. Rather than be
open with the Australian people the government chose instead to introduce the COAG Legislation
Amendment Bill 2021 (COAG bill) which further erodes the democratic principles of this country.

https://lsj.com.au/articles/the-debate-over-national-cabinet/

The Australian Government entered into hasty and secret commercial in-confidence deals with
private corporations who have a history of fraud and unethical behaviour, in order to secure
inadequately tested gene therapies for use on the Australian people. These deals to this day have
not been disclosed and there is mounting evidence questioning the safety of these flawed therapies.




The Governments secrecy and lack of transparency have led to an all time low in trust in our political
institutions and any inquiry needs to look at strengthening the rights of Australians to access
information in order that they may make an informed decision about Government decisions that
seriously affect their lives.



Conflicts of interest

The TGA is almost exclusively funded by the industry it is supposed to be regulating. Only 7% of the
TGA's funding comes from public sources. This is one of the lowest amounts for a therapeutic
regulatory agency in the world. In addition to this, many of the TGA's high ranking employees go on
to lucrative careers in the pharmaceutical industry after their tenure at the TGA, or they rely directly
or indirectly on pharmaceutical funding in their academic careers. An example of this is|‘




https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-
immunisation-atagi?language=und#members

Attached is the document titled Conflict of Interest which outlines many more of these conflicts by
members of Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI).




                                            UNOFFICIAL
                                            UNOFFICIAL




Many of our high-ranking public servants have links to organisations such as the WHO and the |
                               ■which places into question their independence when they have
affiliations with organisations that have the potential to profit financially from Australia's Pandemic




Our regulatory agencies need to be unshackled from reliance on funding from the industries that
they regulate. This will always be a fundamental conflict of interest and undermine the public
confidence in their independence. In addition to this, executives in control of public health and
regulatory agencies should not be allowed to benefit financially or professionally from the industry
they regulate for a specified period during, and after, their employment within government
agencies.



Censorship

Throughout the pandemic access to reliable and open information was constricted by an opaque and
secretive government who provided little detail on the evidence or necessity of pandemic measures.
A constant call to authority by referencing 'the experts' (no not those experts) who quite often had
conflicts of interest or whose careers relied on confirming the government narrative. AHPRA
ensured that registered health practitioners could not openly debate or choose to question
government policy without fear of being suspended and investigated. I was one of those health
practitioners who received the AHPRA warning.

Our government colluded with private technology corporations to censor information contrary to
the governments and the pharmaceutical industries narrative. This often involved censoring the
legitimate voices of genuine experts in their respective fields who were openly debating the safety
and efficacy of Australia's pandemic response. This behaviour is the sign of an illiberal and
authoritarian government and bureaucracy that has no interest in the welfare and rights of the
Australian people. This Orwellian control on information is now being legislated through the
Disinformation/Misinformation Bill 2023.

https://news.rebekahbarnett.com.aU/p/breaking-the-australian-government



Freedom of speech and free access to information is a hallmark of a free society, if we lose this right,
we can no longer be considered a free country and I am shocked that this simple and once treasured
principle is now being openly and unashamedly threatened. Governments that have censored and
controlled speech have never been the good guys. The best way to combat misinformation or a bad
idea is through open and well-reasoned argument in the marketplace of ideas. With the significant
resources available to the federal government and a compliant corporate media, if you cannot
convince the Australian people to adopt a course of action then you are most likely either wrong, or
incompetent to lead this country.




                                            UNOFFICIAL
                                           UNOFFICIAL



Disregard for fundamental Human Rights

The government voted against the vaccine indemnity bill further showing it has more interest in the
finances of corporations and big pharma than those of the Australian people. In addition to this less
than 5% of claims for compensation from the governments vaccine injury scheme have been
approved.

https://umbrellanews.com.au/featured/2023/06/government-stalls-on-compo-for-covid-vaccine-
injuries/



Our government is also accepting international agreements in the form of the WHO's International
Health Regulations (IHR) that remove reference to human rights, dignity and freedom of persons and
make these agreements legally binding in International Law. These agreements would undoubtably
be used during the next pandemic which according to the IHR would only need to be a 'potential'
issue rather than a defined and declared event. This international agreement contains many
concerning elements that effectively cede power to a single global authority whose funding relies on
donors from private companies and billionaires. Below is a list of some of the concerns with the
IHR's.

    1.      Encouraging 'Gain of function' research.
    2.      Giving the WHO a blank check to create new rules in the future.
    3.      Liability-free vaccines developed at warp speed will be produced.
    4.      Human rights guarantees have been removed in the new amendments.
    5.      Social media surveillance and censorship of citizens is required.
    6.      We may not learn what is in the amendments until after they are passed.
    7.      The WHO Director-General could become your personal physician.
    8.      When will the WHO be able to use its newly minted powers?

https://mervlnass.substack.eom/p/eight-items-of-major-concern-regarding

https://childrenshealthdefense.org/defender/december-deadline-who-pandemic-treaty-ihr-
amendments/



In closing Australia and its people need to remain sovereign above corporations and international
agreements, and all our rights should be founded on the principle of individual liberty, bodily
autonomy, and freedom of expression. The only way to truly learn from the last four years and
ensure that Australians are prepared and safe during the next pandemic is to hold a Royal
Commission. I demand that the government cancel this weak inquiry and hold a full-blown Royal
Commission into Australia's pandemic response with broad all-encompassing reference to get to the
bottom of what worked, what didn't and what we need to do next time.




                                           UNOFFICIAL
