Submission - COVID 19 Response Inquiry
Author


This is an individual submission, highlighting the challenges faced and impacts incurred by
individuals. This submission does reference places of employment, as these are relevant to pandemic
conditions as applied to individuals.

BACKGROUND

In November 2019,1 had been employed by                                   (Employee Wellbeing) for 6
  ears as social worker delivering internal, customised mental and social health services to
                 and their families, located throughout                            Queensland. At this
time, I moved to Manager - E loyee Wellbeing, with state wide responsibility for delivery of mental
and social health services to                           through a remote workforce of social workers
and psychologists. This service also held oversight for the ^■volunteer peer support officers, who
provided countless volunteer hours to support their colleagues through challenges of           career.

During 2020, my role worked regularly with        WHS and facilitated a shift in service delivery,
ensuring mental and social health services remained operational and accessible through lockdowns,
restricted movement, and the application of regularly changing public policy directives. My role
supported the development new model of service, to work with the restrictions on movement,
accommodate changing needs of                            and establishing safe work protocols for the
wellbeing team.

Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive health
measures).

Throughout 2020 and two thirds of 2021, my team and I were available and deli vering support
services to ensure the ^^^^(workforce received appropriate and necessary levels of support to
manage the constantly changing requirements of public health policy, as well as their individual
circumstances. During this time, members of Employee Wellbeing met usual, and every new
demand requested of the service, as well as trialling an additional support service option. During
this time, Employee Wellbeing Service had been provided with varying levels of access to PPE,
screening or other health measures related to physical location of the member. Generally, each
individual member of Employee Wellbeing was required to manage their own safety, as this team
were confined to working from home arrangements from March/April 2020, effectively moving the
risk from the organisation to the individual/home environment.

In September 202l^^^^^^^^^^^^^introduced internal directive mandating COVID 19
vaccination for all^85% of Employee Wellbeing had voluntarily sought advice
regarding vaccination) This directive was enforced through use of disciplinary nrocess, alleging that
members who did not follow this directive were guilty of serious misconduct. ^^|did provide an
option to request exemption to vaccine mandate based on health or religious grounds. I applied for
exemption with written support from my General Practitioner of 8 years, and with written support
from the leader of the religious group to which I have been affiliated for approx. 5years.
Additionally, I outlined the recent changes in my role which saw up to 90% of my duties filled
through remote working arrangements. My application was denied, and I was not provided with
explanation. I was given a verbal direction to provide evidence of vaccination within 2 days or I
would be suspended, pending disciplinary action. I immediately submitted leave application, (which
was approved at half pay) however I was excluded from all work communication and locked out same
day. This left the role of manager unfilled, and at that time Employ ee Wellbeing was carrying 5
vacancies (2 of which I was in process of recruiting to). This sudden and total exclusion from my
colleagues, high level responsibilities and incomplete tasks was devastating. My final remote contact
with my team occurred on                2021.

In the months from^^^^l 2021 -^^(2022,1 applied for and won 5 roles across education support
and mental health service providers. However, in each process, I would progress through written
application, interview to discussing job offer at which time I was requested to provide vaccination
status. During this time, there were a significant number of roles that I was qualified to fill, but was
ineligible for, due to vaccination requirements - including roles that were delivered completely via
telehealth, with no face- to- face requirement to meet with clients.

I returned to full time work as a social worker in mental health field in^^^^|2022. This role was
as ^^^Bgraduate entry level role, despite having 20 years experience working as a social worker
and 2 years experience managing a statewide mental and social health service. This role was not good
fit for my skills or experience and my mental health suffered again. I left that role after only 12
months, moving to another role, again at entry level. As a Social Worker with 20+ years experience,
I have been excluded through arbitrary decisions, and the mental health workforce has been impacted
by not only myself, but other senior practitioners who have been excluded from the health workforce.

It was after I commenced another role inH^^^|2023, that vaccine mandates across some areas of
health and policing were removed. Incidentally earlier in 2023,1 applied for same role with
Employee Wellbeing, and was advised that I was “not a suitable candidate” - despite the 8+ years that
I had previously worked with



Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing and
homelessness measures, family, and domestic violence measures in areas of Commonwealth
Government responsibility).

It is now evidenced through mental health statistics that Australians of all backgrounds suffered
significantly simply by enduring pandemic conditions established by state governments, with no
accountability by Commonwealth Government.             My^|-year- old daughter was enrolled at
                      University 2020-2022, living in rental accommodation. The sudden and dramatic
change in class delivery from face to face to online only, had a significant impact on both her social
wellbeing and learning. My daughter was forced to spend continuous weeks in her bedroom, with no
physical contact from friends (due to public health orders) and no contact with family, (as we were
outside the travel allowances). This resulted in significant depressive symptoms, functional decline
and her study was impacted as she struggled to focus, and pass classes. When public health orders
changed, my daughter immediately moved out of the one room that had been her “prison” in 2020,
which then left her at the mercy of rental crisis, and often homeless for periods between share housing
availability. My daughter has just completed study in 2023, however this struggle was only overcome
through significant input (financial and emotional) by us as parents, 2 mental health plans, links to
community groups and her own determination to finish the course of study. My daughter was not
eligible for any financial assistance (job seeker job keeper, etc), has received minimal financial
support as a student and generally, had to survive this pandemic experience on her and our resources
without Commonwealth Government assistance.



Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

From. 2019- 2021 my husband was employed as                  teacher in a         school, delivering
traditional classes throughout 2020, managing with PPE, social distancing, and other “safety”
measures to ensure educational outcomes were being met for his students, particularly in senior
classes. My husband altered teaching to remote delivery when directed, creating, and altering much
of the class content in his own time, as little work time could be allocated as public health directives
were changing regularly and enforcement was immediate. In December 2021, vaccination mandate
was applied to educational settings, and teachers were advised days before Christmas. My husband
also followed professional and internal employer processes to question vaccine requirement however
his employment was terminated in ^^^^^2022. This resulted in both my husband and I without
income for a period of about 6 months, yet also not eligible for job seeker or other commonwealth
financial payments. My husband was able to locate other employment, more quickly than I did. Our
family survived on the limited income we could earn without access to the double job seeker
payments that had been provided to those who were unemployed during pandemic conditions. We’ve
supported ourselves and| adolescents through pandemic conditions, as we were all ineligible for
commonwealth payments at that time.



       delivering classes                          This government education/training setting did not
require vaccination, had limited PPE, and required him to teach on various rural campuses, resulting
in his working in 3 different^^^communities of students and staff.)


Future responses
The impact of the above experiences could be decreased through allowing individuals and
organizations to use information and apply this to each individual setting, as deemed best fit for that
setting by the people working there.

    •   For example, many educational settings operated throughout 2020 using less evasive
        measures, maintaining learning through changes in classrooms setting or class sizes etc.
        Teachers such as my husband were following public health advice through use of PPE,
        sanitizer etc. to keep students connected to each other and to learning. The mandated
        vaccination was the most detrimental action to impact teaching workforce.
    •   Similar, when mental health services moved to online environment, the application of vaccine
        mandate for employment no longer made sense, as infection can not be spread through video
        calls. The application of vaccine mandate for mental health workforce delivering telehealth
        services (both within the specific role in^^| and more broadly in mental health services)
        only served to reduce the workforce and impact service delivery.
    •   The isolation of young people, particularly uni students living away from home, could have
        been overcome through similar distancing, sanitizing in university, as was used in schools.
        The dramatic impact of removing access to a community seems absurd and extreme measure.
