Key Health Response Measures

The Australian Government and the Public Health Department (Federal) did not follow the previously
agreed Pandemic Plan 2019.

This decision created a disaster more than the pandemic itself.

The AG response to the pandemic was worse than the pandemic itself.

The public health measures the AG took created more harm than good.

The AG does not show any evidence that it took a risk benefit analysis.

Every aspect of the pandemic response showed a malfunctioning AG public health response.

Lockdowns were not necessary.

Masking mandates were not necessary.

Mandated vaccinations were not necessary.

The AG violated the rights of the individual in every area of society during 2020 - 2023, and is
ongoing.

No Federal or State government Minister has accepted any responsibility for any failings due their
response to the pandemic.

No Federal or State Government Minister has apologized for any failings or shown remorse for any
evidence of harm.

Examples of harm imposed on individuals include being locked down for various periods of time.

Being refused permission or freedom to visit loved ones in care homes.

Being refused permission to spend last hours with a dying loved one.

Being refused permission to remain with a loved one who has been admitted to hospital eg an
expecting mother, an infant, baby or child needing a parent with them who is denied access to their
child.

Being denied the freedom to attend weddings, funerals, hospital and aged care home visits.

Being mandated for a vaccination required to keep a job.

Not being able to travel interstate or overseas to visit a loved one, who is dying, is seriously ill, or has
been refused entry into Australia from overseas or from interstate.

Public health and government officials presenting misleading and over-exaggerated information
regarding the pandemic, measures, vaccinations and treatments, lockdowns.

Being denied access to medical treatment or general services due to not being vaccinated.

Being singled out for not being vaccinated, and being punished or scapegoated, eg public shamed
through mainstream media outlets.

Misleading and inflammatory comments made about persons who did not receive a vaccination for
any reason. These reasons were not made public or legitimised.
The use of public funded media to control conversations and pushing one general official narrative.

There was no room for discussion, questions, or research, everything was presented as 100% factual,
and only the government official narrative was acceptable.

The governments decision to move the goalposts constantly eg from the elderly and most vulnerable
to advocating for babies from 6 months of age receiving a vaccine.

The lack of credible and evidence-based information and advice.

The erosion of social fabric by dividing people by virtue of being vaccinated or unvaccinated.
