14/2/2022 17:17
To: People and Corporate Services Executive Director Copy

 ear Ms I

I write to you regarding the recent decision to suspend me until the end of June 2022, which
date is almost three months after the current state of emergency is due to expire.

Please find attached my response to your notice of suspension dated 21st January, 2022.

Key points from the letter prepared by my representative:
   •   I continue to refute any allegations that I am liable to discipline under a
       disciplinary law, or any finding of serious misconduct under s 121(2) of the Industrial
       Relations Act 2016 (Qld).
   •   According to section 137(4) Public Service Act 2008 (Qld), I am entitled to my
       normal remuneration, unless I am liable to discipline under a disciplinary law.
   •        With regard to suspension without remuneration:
        In accordance with principles of natural justice, I ought to be afforded a fair hearing
        and opportunity to present my case, and have a decision made by an unbiased or
        disinterested decision maker. That decision ought to be made on logically probative
        evidence according to Salermi v MacKellar (No 2) (1977) 137 CLR; 14 ALR 1.
   •   I assert that the Department has not complied with suspension directive 16/20
       clauses:
       5.2(c) Obligation to consider all reasonable alternatives; under the PS Act section
       137(3), all reasonable alternatives must be considered. [No consideration has
       been given to the fact that I am a registered teacher in aM
       ■ | /orking in a ]
              I can complete 95% of my work remotely, off-campus.] As an employee, I
       have not been provided any evidence that the Department has identified, given
       consideration to alternatives or provided reasons why alternative duties could not
       be undertaken.
I look forward to receiving a response from you addressing the above points in particular.

Kind regards

                     ■Project Officer
                                  Il
