Submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Document 1 : Key public health communications research findings and recommendations
Submitted by:
Shauna Hurley (Cochrane Australia, Monash University -                             &
Dr Rebecca Ryan (Centre for Health Communication and Participation and the Cochrane Consumers and
Communication Review Group, La Trobe University -
This submission has been lodged on Friday 15 December 2023 in response to the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) that opened in September 2023 to identify lessons
learned and improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.
We welcome the opportunity to contribute to the Inquiry, having recently completed a major systematic
review of global evidence on Communication to promote and support physical distancing for COVID-19
prevention and control for the international health research organisation, the Cochran? Collaboration
Our submission specifically addresses the following areas outlined in the Terms of Reference:
    •    Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
         medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
         messaging).
    •    Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
         across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability,
         First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
         communities).
Our submission includes:
    •        Document 1: This statement summarising our key findings and recommendations - pages 1-3
    •    Document 2: Background information about Cochrane Australia, the Centre for Health
         Communication and Participation, and our combined research and communications expertise.
    •    Document 3: A PDF of our full Cochrane Review: Communication to promote and support physical
         distancing for COVID-19 prevention and control (published on 9 October 2023)


Covid and public health communications:
Key research findings and recommendations for the Inquiry
From March 2020 onwards, governments around the globe faced the urgent challenge of communicating
complex facts, figures and directives to diverse populations about a rapidly unfolding pandemic. Here in
Australia and in many other countries, many people had never heard of public health measures like
isolating, quarantining, contact tracing, mask wearing and home schooling. The need for clear and
accurate information about what was happening, when and why was immediate, and ongoing. People in
all corners of the country needed to understand and adhere to previously quite unimaginable public health
measures.
It's difficult to quantify or characterise the sheer scale and complexity of public communication
requirements from the earliest days of the pandemic to today. Each rapid shift in the local, national and
international health landscapes saw new and often contested evidence, policies and debates emerge. At
the same time a deluge of digital mis- and disinformation was unleashed, compounding the challenges
faced by governments and public health authorities and confusing their diverse audiences further. As the
evidence tells us, trust in government was a critical ingredient to successful engagement with the public.
Evidence from past disease outbreaks and the COVID-19 pandemic has much to tell us about future
pandemic response planning and preparedness. But how do we begin to understand what worked, what
didn’t and why?
Building on research originally commissioned by the World Health Organization (WHO) at the outset of the
COVID-19 pandemic, our recently published Cochrane systematic review weighs up the evidence on what
worked and what didn't when it came to communication to promote and support physical distancing for
COVID-19 prevention and control. Drawing on detailed data and extensive literature from around the
world, our review explores the different approaches governments and health authorities used to
communicate with the public. It provides clear, evidence-based lessons for public health messaging
(communication) now, and for future pandemic response planning.


        Cochrane           Centre for Health   Cochrane
                           Communication and
        Australia          Participation
Key findings
In the context of a pandemic, clear and effective communication with the public can mean the difference
between life and death. And like any other health intervention, communication can be done well or poorly.
It can also be especially difficult to measure, evaluate and consistently prioritise.
Our latest research findings support and underscore the urgent call to action that the WHO and US Centre
for Disease Control (CDC) began making long before the COVID-19 pandemic hit. That is, public
communication during health crises is a proven and vital ingredient to any successful response - therefore
it must be a central focus for all governments. The core message is that clear communication isn't just a
‘nice-to-have’. Accessible and accurate information is the foundation for getting pandemics and other
health crises under control. It can save lives.
The following evidence-based recommendations highlight the need for real national and international
action in recognition of and in response to this salient fact.


Recommendations
1. Communication needs to be clear, timely, up-to-date, actionable and continuously tailored to
changing circumstances.
Communication is not a one off intervention to be considered only when a pandemic begins. Information,
messaging and engagement must evolve over time, and be formulated with an eye to the public's
openness, willingness and ability to follow protective measures. Additionally, shifting individual perceptions
of what constitutes risk and cumulative pandemic fatigue mean public communication has to be alert and
responsive to both the health landscape and public sentiment. Change overtime is critical if public
communication is to be effective.

2. Public trust in authorities is essential for effective communication. It must be bolstered and
sustained now and into the future.
Public trust in authorities is vital and the need for it cannot be overstated. The evidence base increasingly
shows that better COVID outcomes correspond with high levels of trust in government. A 2022 Lance
paper measuring the levels of trust in governments found they were directly proportional to fewer
infections and higher vaccination rates in both high-income and middle-income countries. The findings
suggest there would have been 13 per cent fewer COVID infections globally if communities had had
greater trust in governments.
The consensus is that in the context of future pandemic preparedness, trust in governments will be a
crucial factor in public adherence to and confidence in public health directives. Here in Australia, building
trust in local, state, territory and federal governments now - and before the next health crisis emerges - is
an integral part of equipping humanity to deal with future pandemic threats.

3. Greater efforts at countering mis- and disinformation are vital.
Misinformation is an ever more critical concern here in Australia and around the globe. Online
misinformation travels further, faster and is more influential than the truth. On social media platforms, fake
claims are 70% more likely to be shared than accurate news, particularly when it comes to health
information. It is essential that health authorities focus on and work together with media and social media
platforms to coordinate responses to:
    •         promote awareness of and access to accurate information
    •         combat and counter misinformation
    •         ensure accurate information is accessible to all communities (including underserved groups)
    •         increase people's digital and health literacy.
We recognise this is a profound challenge, but it has never been more urgent. Accumulating evidence
points to the complex adverse social effect infodemics have during health emergencies. While social
media is universally recognised as the battleground for mis- and disinformation, podcasts pose an equally
serious range of problems. This is exemplified by the Joe Rogan Experience controversies that played out
during the Covid pandemic.

Submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Cochrane Australia - Document 1 of 3                    2
           | eponymous host of the world's most popular podcast, quickly became synonymous with
controversial pseudoscience and dangerous misinformation about Covid and vaccination which was
regularly shared at length with his audience of 11+ million people around the globe from 2020 onwards.
The reach and influence c-J^^^Jpodcast content - which was consistently contrary to public health
advice and basic science - galvanised a coalition of hundreds of scientists, medical professionals,
academics and science communicators to sign an open letter to Spotify in 2021 highlighting a raft of
critical issues that represented not just medical or scientific concerns, but ‘a sociological issue of
devastating proportions.’
This is just one high profile example among many that highlight the urgent need for concerted and
coordinated action by governments, public health authorities and platforms on this intractable issue. The
need to work proactively to produce and share reliable and up-to-date information to support people’s
decisions related to COVID-19, vaccinations and other issues of importance to the public's health is clear.
This necessitates better and more detailed planning, tailoring for reach and acceptability and the adoption
of new media in different formats to spread the word, and adding pressure for media and social media to
meet ethical standards that underpin a public benefit.
The challenges of introducing regulation in this area are evident in the current hotly contested debate
around the Australian Government's draft Communications Legislation Amendment (Combatting
Misinformation and Disinformation) Bill 2023. The stated purpose of the draft Bill is ‘to provide greater
transparency of the actions taken by digital platforms to manage seriously harmful misinformation and
disinformation on their services’. While this purpose is broad, our recommendation is that public health is
afforded particular attention. Combatting health mis- and disinformation needs to be expressly addressed
in the context of the evidence we have about the ill effects of misinformation during Covid.

4. Two-way communication is key.
All communication about how people can protect themselves needs to be developed in consultation with
the people who ultimately need to follow the advice. Involving communities can ensure the needs of
different people (such as underserved, culturally diverse and vulnerable groups) are acknowledged and
addressed in planning, communicating and implementing protective measures. This improves the chances
people will take up and follow public health advice, and enables authorities to gauge whether
communications are reaching different audiences and meeting their needs - and where changes are
needed.

5. Behaviour change at individual and population levels requires ongoing support.
People need to be equipped with knowledge about what’s needed to protect themselves, why protective
measures are needed, and how to go about it. They also need access to practical help including direct
services and financial support, to take up and follow protective measures, with recognition that people
may need different types and levels of support to prevent worsening inequities.


In summary
In summary, our findings consistently highlight that effective public health communication to protect people
and communities requires resources, planning, and a flow of clear information tailored for diverse
audiences over time. This work must be ongoing, and needs to be prioritised now. Focusing on
combatting misinformation and mistrust in governments is also key if we are to be ready for the next
pandemic or other public health crises.
And while this much is clear from the deluge of COVID-19 research we now have to draw on, there are
still significant gaps in the evidence. More work needs to be done globally on communicating with people
at higher risk of severe illness or death from COVID-1fl, so that they can be better informed and
supported. Here in Australia, we also need to identify effective public health mechanisms and messaging
that will meet the different needs of diverse populations - including First Nations peoples and
communities, culturally and linguistically diverse communities, people with disability and people from
different gender, geographic, age and socio-economic groups.
It is hoped our recent findings will contribute to advancing our understanding of how policy makers, health
professionals and communities can better prepare and communicate to save lives in future public health
emergencies within Australia and beyond.

Submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Cochrane Australia - Document 1 of 3                 3
Submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Document 2: Background information about Cochrane Australia, the Centre for Health Communication
and Participation, systematic reviews, and a snapshot of our combined research and science
communications expertise.
Date: Friday 15 December 2023

Submitted by:

 Ms Shauna Hurley                                       Dr Rebecca Ryan
 Science Communications Researcher                      Head of the Centre for Health
 & Communications Director                              Communication and Participation
 Cochrane Australia                                     & Senior Research Fellow
 School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine        Department of Public Health
 Monash University, 553 St Kilda Road                   La Trobe University
 Melbourne 3005                                         Melbourne Campus, Vic 3086




Brief overview: This submission is lodged in response to the Cor imonwealth Government COVI > 9
Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) that opened in September 2023 to identify lessons learned, and improve
Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.

Our submission includes three documents:
    •         Document 1: A statement summarising our key findings and recommendations - pages 1-3
    •    Document 2: This document with background information about Cochrane Australia, the Centre
         for Health Communication and Participation, systematic reviews, and a snapshot of our combined
         research and science communications expertise.
    •    Document 3: A PDF of our full Cochrane Review: Communication to promote and support
         physical distancing for COVID-19 prevention and control (published 9 October 2023)



Background information: About Cochrane

Cochrane is an independent, not-for-profit research network of over 40,000 people across 130 countries.
For 30 years, we’ve provided the highest quality health evidence for people, governments and
organisations around the globe - from the WrO to Wikipedia. Given the age of both pandemic and
infodemic that we find ourselves living in, we know our contribution to producing the world's most trusted
health evidence has never been more critical.Our evidence is recognised as the international gold
standard for health information - because (among other things) we don’t accept commercial sponsorship
and our scientific methods are second to none. We publish our findings in the form of ‘systematic reviews'.
This means that instead of cherry-picking findings from one or two studies, we systematically assess all of
the relevant and available studies on a specific health question or topic - with an eye to how each study is
conducted and funded. All our reviews are published online in the Cochrane Library.

The Australian Government funds a national subscription to the Cochrane Library, and in turn, Australians
download more Cochrane reviews each year than any other country globally. From our centre in
Melbourne, Cochrane Australia also provides training and support to over 3,000 local Cochrane
contributors and shares the latest in health news with the broader Australian community. Cochrane
Australia is located within the Monash University School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine at 554
St Kilda Road, Melbourne. Further details about Cochrane can be found at and Cochrane.org

The Cochrane Consumers and Communication group is co-located at the Centre for Health
Communication and Participation at La Trobe University. The group conducts research to improve
communication with and participation by consumers and carers through evidence-informed policy and
decision making.


        Cochrane         Centre for Health   Cochrane
                         Communication and
        Australia        Participation
About systematic reviews

Cochrane Reviews are widely used to inform healthcare decisions, best practice guidance in primary care
and patient decision aids in shared decision making initiatives around the world.

To conduct a systematic review of this kind, all the existing research on the topic that meets certain criteria
is searched for and collated, and then assessed using stringent guidelines, to establish whether or not
there is conclusive evidence. Reviews are updated as new evidence becomes available, ensuring that
health care decisions and policies can be based on the most up-to-date and reliable evidence.



About us

Rebecca Ryan
Dr Rebecca Ryan (PhD) is Head of the Centre for Health Communication and Participation at La Trobe
University, Coordinating Editor of the Cochrane Consumers and Communication Group and co-lead of
Cochrane's global People, Health Systems and Public Health Thematic Group.
Rebecca is a leading researcher across the broad areas of evidence synthesis and health communication.
Her expertise spans evidence synthesis methods, shared decision making and person-centred care,
communication for rare diseases and at the end of life, consumers' use of medicines and vaccines, and
engagement methods for consumers in health research and decision making.
Rebecca led the evic nee revie on communication for physical distancing, commissioned by the World
Health Organization in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic, and was lead author of the latest
evidence review published in October 2023 for Cochrane.




Shauna Hurley
Shauna is Director of Communications for Cochrane Australia and the Australian Living Evidence
Collaboration (ALEC). She also works as an adviser to Cochrane's global Editor in Chief, Dr Karla Soares-
Weiser, and has extensive experience as a communications researcher, consultant and writer for a broad
range of government, health, publishing and media organisations in Australia and the UK.
Shauna has a long-standing interest in science communications, public policy and digital design. Most
recently she pioneered the development of Cochrane's use of visual language to simplify complex
evidence for lay audiences on topics as diverse as antidepressants,          ,          , pregnancy and
            . Shauna has a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Political Science and a Masters in Public Policy and
Management from The University of Melbourne.




Submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Cochrane Australia - Document 2 of 3                 2
