Covid Royal Commission is necessary.
Many questions need to be answered. Many decisionmakers need to explain. Under oath.
The facts have spoken. Covid was not as lethal as it was promoted. Excess deaths since,
remain ignored and unexplained.
Who made the decision to enact emergency legislation, or whatever it was called, enabling all
sensibilities and duty of care to be ignored. Who decided in the govt and on what information
provided by who (WHO)?
The TGA, the gatekeeper. That's where it entered Australia. What usual tests, trials, results and
guarantees were overlooked (not even questioned) to get the product to market?
why did the australian govt grant mRNA manufacturers full indemnity of their product safety,
efficacy and advice without recourse?
As a taxpayer citizen, I request full disclosure of TGA, it's decisionmakers and their role in
approving the gene therapy for mass consumption. Did they fully understand this new
technology at the time? Who approved so quickly, and why, without thorough investigation?
where and from whom was state health knowledge acquired, and how was public advice
formed? Who were the people (please name them, provide meeting or conference minutes of
motions, etc.) who decided protocols such as mask mandates, lockdowns? How were arbitrary
conditions established and upon what scientific evidence e.g. 1.5 metres, no mask while sitting?
what role did federal health dept play in providing state administrations with information to
formulate their state specific health advice?
'vaccine mandates' forced Australians to choose between having a job to earn income, support
their families and financial committments. That is govt enforced coersion. Who dictated this
policy?
Small businesses collapsed and disappeared in debt due to the heavy burdens of covid
compliance while multinationals thrived by comparison. Which department of govt did not see
that happening?
The app to sign in and out of places. What was that? Was it a test run for digital ID and ODBC?
Where was/is that data stored? Has it been deleted? Or has it been consolidated to my profile
for future reference?
How did Sweden, India and most African, Middle Eastern, Asian nations endure covid? What
were their political responses? Why did they avoid the mRNA technology?
Where and who inspired/conducted the censorship of factual reporting, alternative narratives,
alternative remedies (ivermectin, vit D = sunlight)?
Who and why ordered suppression of comorbidity factor reporting surrounding covid deaths?
This should have been a focus of health advice at the beginning. Nutritional guidelines have
been corrupt and unhealthy for decades, consequently contributing a major factor in this
epidemic. I have complained to my local federal member recently about the latest Australian
Nutritional Guidelines development currently under review.
the reporting of deaths attributed to covid requires specific exposure. We remember the daily
death tolls. So many they couldn't assess specifically why people died, but they all tested
positive.
Media involvement promoting unresearched government propaganda, vilifying genuine scientific
evidence, vilifying basic human rights to resist, lack of basic reasoning, focussing on individuals
and groups who did not comply. Who decided these editorially? Why were these editorial
decisions made? Under what threats?
The PCR test. I request a complete scientific analysis and complete explanation of the PCR test
for Covid-19. What is the full DNA of that sequence? Where, who and how many people
provided the samples of the virus? Has the Covid-19 virus been scientifically isolated? If so,
who isolated the virus including the full dna sequence? Did the PCR test for a small section of
the virus DNA or the full virus DNA?
Virus DNA and mRNA therapy copyrights. I request insight into corporate ownership of virus
DNA and mRNA therapies.
The role of World Health Organisation (WHO). How much influence did WHO dictate Australian
and State government policy decision making? How were Australian governments obliged to
follow WHO recommendations and exceed (in some cases) the advice to the detriment of our
population and economic limits?
Who made orders to arrest citizens walking in a park?
I insist there needs to be a Royal Commission to bring all and anybody responsible for the
decisions made and legislated during the Covid-19 emergency. A thorough investigation across
all levels of government and bureaucracy.
Yours faithfully
Darin Ryan
