Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Submission by Avril Sellars 14/12/2023

During the COVID-19 situation, when vaccines became available, we were
assured by then Prime Minister Morrison that they would be entirely
voluntary. That soon went out of the window. Many people I know were
forced to take the vaccine or lose their jobs. Some ascribe long-lasting adverse
physical and mental effects to the vaccine. It has completely changed the lives
of good people who are forever lost as productive members of society.

Then, particularly in Victoria, measures became increasingly draconian, with
restrictions on movement, recreation, church attendance, etc. The situation
reached ridiculous lengths when obviously healthy people were required to
wear masks even during outdoor sports!

In my case, it went further, with my yacht club requiring everyone participating
in sailing or using the club to show proof of vaccination. I refused and was
brought up before a disciplinary committee. I drew their attention to the
Privacy Act 1988, which does not require people to disclose their personal or
health information. In spite of this, the disciplinary committee banned me from
the club for 6 months, with the proviso that I would only be allowed back if I
showed proof of vaccination. They will be waiting a long time! I was an
exemplary member for 15 years but I have not renewed my membership and
have since gone to another club.

During and after the COVID-19 years, it has become increasingly obvious that
the vaccines have failed to prevent people catching and passing on the disease.
So the argument that one must get vaccinated to protect others has
completely failed. Then the story changed: get vaccinated to prevent you
becoming more seriously ill. I have seen evidence that this argument has also
failed. People I know who have been vaccinated and then caught COVID have
ended up with what is referred to as "long COVID". Not a pleasant situation.

As to medications, I find it strange that perfectly safe, cheap and effective off
label medications were banned in Australia. Now expensive anti-viral
medications are promoted and must be a substantial drain on our health
services. Is no one in the health professions willing to look at more economical
alternatives?
