Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Sir/ Madam

My name is                    am a concerned citizen and medical professional who believes
in the principles of medical ethics (Autonomy, Beneficence, Non- Maleficence, Justice). I
represent my own personal views.

Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission to help guide the response to future
pandemics in Australia.

I think it was not a good idea to make masks mandatory- it is an unnecessary
environmental burden, there is significant evidence of adverse physio-metabolic and clinical
sequelae (Journal of Frontiers in public health, Kisielinski et al, 05 April 2023). Moreover, the
AMPS (Australian medical protection society) has released a statement in February 2023
that mask mandates were futile as concluded by the Cochrane review by Tom Jefferson et
al, which provides a meta-analysis of 78 Randomised Control Trials- definitively showing the
ineffectiveness of surgical masks in preventing the spread of respiratory viruses.

I think it was not a good idea to mandate or coerce uptake of the experimental mRNA
vaccines. Despite having received 3 doses myself and being an advocate for traditional
vaccines, it has been found that vaccines never stopped transmission despite the public
being told that they were "95% effective and would stop transmission"- a claim which
seemed to change over time repeatedly. A key principle of medical ethics is bodily
autonomy and I believe this was violated during the pandemic response- people were
threatened they couldn't work unless they took vaccines which have now been reported to
have very high incidence of adverse events of special interest (Journal vaccine, Joseph
Fraiman, serious events of special interest, 22 Sept 2022).

It was unfair to violate people's conscience in this regard- Telling fit and healthy people
they couldn't work unless they were vaccinated ("No jab no job") was something I never
thought I would witness in Australia. I personally gave $500 to a single mum to buy food
when she lost her job because of her vaccine status.

It was not a good idea for the media to terrify people every day with scaring tactics,
broadcasting every single case of COVID and death when the evidence showed early on that
the case fatality from COVID in younger, healthy people was less than 1%. This was
irresponsible journalism and this constant catastrophising should have been called into
question by our leadership.

I don't think that widespread lockdowns was a good idea- it was unnecessarily restrictive
of peoples' civil liberties, has left the economy and interest-rates in tatters and did not
ultimately stop the virus from spreading. The medically vulnerable (Elderly, immune-
suppressed, respiratory/ cardiac cripples, cancer patients, diabetics, obese and infirm) could
have quarantined and isolated themselves and the rest of society could have been allowed
to function responsibly with good hand hygiene and social distancing. It caused me great
distress after agreeing to "2 weeks lockdown to flatten the curve" when this lockdown
approach lasted numerous months instead. This was dishonest, unnecessary and unfair for
people with family oversees or interstate.



I do believe that we need an independent royal commission into the origins of this virus
and the pandemic response at federal and state level. We also need to know now why there
is now an excess mortality rate in Australia and other highly vaccinated countries a number
of months after many of the most vulnerable patients have already tragically died from
COVID (See AMPS report- "too many deaths- an enquiry into Australia's excess mortality"
released earlier this year). All possible potential causes for this excess mortality need to be
investigated thoroughly as a medical emergency.



Thank you for your attention
