 1   World’s-Best Statistical Practice Saves Lives
 2   Dennis Trewin AO, FASSA is the former Australian Statistician and former President of the
 3   International Statistical Institute and the International Association of Survey Statisticians.

 4   Nicholas Fisher is Principal of ValueMetrics Australia and Visiting Professor of Statistics at the
 5   University of Sydney. He was formerly a Chief Research Scientist in CSIRO.

 6   Noel Cressie FRSN FAA is Distinguished Professor at the University of Wollongong, Australia, and
 7   a centre director in its National Institute for Applied Statistics Research Australia (NIASRA)

 8   Executive Summary

 9   As three senior members of the Statistics profession, we are concerned that statistical methods
10   are not being used, or not being used appropriately, in formulating responses to the continuing
11   challenges facing Australia, including pandemics.

12   Whilst our focus is largely on the future, we shall highlight some key aspects of the response to
13   the COVID-19 pandemic (hereafter COVID) as context for the importance of addressing the
14   issues we identify. Elaboration of each of these aspects is available in Attachment 1, Details
15   Relating to the Submission.

16   We are scientists who believe that collaboration from all relevant disciplines is critical when the
17   next pandemic comes. From a statistical perspective, we think there are five critical issues to
18   managing a pandemic. These are given below, followed by actionable recommendations
19   stemming from them.

20   1. There is need for national, expert oversight of all scientific aspects, among them
21      epidemiological and statistical. However, during COVID, statistical aspects (apart from the
22      ABS surveys) were largely ignored.

23   2. The timely capture and analysis of diverse informative data streams is critical to informing
24      wise decision-making and ongoing communication with the community about the current
25      state of a pandemic. There needs to be a pandemic information plan that can be activated at
26      short notice. The plan should include a rolling national, scientifically designed monitoring
U       survey. [An outline for such a plan is provided on page 3 of Attachment 2, Pandemic
28      Information Management Plan. An earlier version was submitted to the Office of the Prime
29      Minister and Cabinet in August 2020, who referred it to the Department of Health, but there
30      is no evidence it was considered.]
31   3. There is a need to understand the potential impacts of uncertainty in the assumptions and
32      models used for predictions. Had this been adopted appropriately during COVID, the timing
33      for reducing the public-health impacts would have changed and the impacts of the Omicron
34      variant (including fatalities) significantly reduced. [See Attachment 1, Details Relating to the
35      Submission.]

36   4. Australia needs to follow best international practice in developing, updating, and using
37      epidemiological models that include an accounting of uncertainty and ongoing synthesis of
38      competitive predictions. For example, our national weather forecasting at BOM applies this
39      world's-best-practice approach. However, during the COVID pandemic, the government
40      relied almost exclusively on the modelling from the Doherty Institute, so dramatically
41      underutilizing the available national expertise.

42   5. It is essential to allow for socio-economic heterogeneity: policy and practice may need to
43      vary from sub-population to sub-population. In fact, ignoring heterogeneity led to biases in
44      predictions (including an upward bias in estimates of the effectiveness of the vaccination
45      program).

46   RECOMMENDATION 1. Professional statisticians should be appointed to the various advisory
47   groups to government that involve working with data, to advise on world's-best statistical
48   practice.

49   RECOMMENDATION 2. There should be a professional statistician on the Advisory Group of
50   ATAGI.

51   RECOMMENDATION 3. A Pandemic Information Plan should be developed as a matter of
52   urgency. Furthermore, we strongly recommend that a multi-disciplinary Task Force be
53   established now, to determine the data/information requirements for managing a pandemic
54   and how they might be met. The membership should include a senior statistician with statistical
55   modelling and analysis expertise, an official (government) statistician, an epidemiologist, a
56   medical researcher, an economist, a social psychologist, and a public-health official.

57   RECOMMENDATION 4. A rolling national, scientifically designed monitoring survey should be
58   instituted at the first sign of an emerging pandemic, preferably with the involvement of the ABS.

59   RECOMMENDATION 5: Because of the ubiquitous need throughout government for high-level
60   data-scientific oversight of actual or potential decision-making based on complex data, and the
61   need for an independent source of advice, we recommend the position of Chief Data Scientist
62   be established with strong parallels to that of Chief Scientist. Such an appointment would have
63   enhanced policy development in many other areas. [See Attachment 3, Proposal for a Chief
64   Data Scientist.]

65   RECOMMENDATION 6. We urge that transparency of data sources and modelling be
66   implemented in Australia, consistent with the approaches being used in the USA
67   (https://covidl9forecasthub.org ), in collaboration with the CDC; and those used in Europe
68   (https://covidl9forecasthub.eu), coordinated by the European Centre for Disease Prevention
69   and Control.

70   RECOMMENDATION 7. As part of the development of the Pandemic Information Plan
71   (Recommendation 3 above), identify the most important sources of heterogeneity that will
72   impact the pandemic, and include them as part of the relevant data streams.

73   Finally, we draw attention to the following international commentary on these matters.

74
75
76
77   Copyright considerations prevent us reproducing the entire contents that justify the title.
78   However, the final paragraph is very compelling:

79
80
81

82
83
84
85
86
87

88
89
90
91
92

93
