I wish to lodge my support for a full enquiry into the effectiveness of the Australian covid response. The
covid pandemic is one of the most significant events to have occurred in Australia's history with
repercussions that are still being felt by individuals and Australia as a whole. I therefore consider that a
Royal Commission with the authority to compel witnesses to testify and provide evidence is warranted.
Alternatively a criminal investigation with powers to enforce evidence gathering and witness statements.

The covid virus which my family contracted in 2020 had minimal impact on our lives, however the
Australian covid response has significantly impacted on the lives of my family.

My wife and I were terminated from our employment as                           working in the^^^^^|
sector, in response to the industry mandates that appose our individual medical decision to decline the
novel mRNA gene therapy. This continues to impact our ability to locate alternative employment within
our chosen professional qualifications.

My son was undertaking his High School Certificate during the pandemic lockdowns. He did not respond
well to the disruptions, remote learning and school closures and was unable to complete his HSC. He then
entered a trade apprenticeship that required him to take the mRNA injection to commence his
apprenticeship, which he reluctantly complied. He regrets this decision, although he has no indication of
adverse effect, and this requirement was removed a short time after his 2nd injection.

My sister purchased and refitted a business in 2020. The covid restrictions significantly delayed the
planning and construction to open her business and then subsequent lockdowns shut her business down
for extended periods. She was forced to close this business at a significant loss in 2021.

My mother-in-law contracted ^^^^^Hfollowing her mRNA booster and has ongoing medical
interventions to alleviate her condition.

I am just one person, with one family but I am sure there are many families around Australia that have
stories of hardship and tragedy resulting from the Australian pandemic response. We have questions that
need to be answered and Australia needs to learn lessons from the pandemic response, or we are
destined to repeat the same mistakes.

Below are the key points I wish answered during the pandemic enquiry:

•   Were valid alternative covid treatment options excluded to gain emergency approval of novel mRNA
    gene therapy?

•   Is the mRNA vaccines used in the vaccine roll-out the same product and manufacturing process
    approved by the TGA?

•   Why were children and young people at minimal risk of covid infection added to the vaccine
    recommendations?

•   Why were pregnant women added to the mRNA vaccine recommendations when there were no
    long-term studies to suggest this was safe?

•   Why were Australians informed by health officials that the mRNA vaccination would stay at the site
    of injections when there is evidence to the contrary?

•   Why was the mRNA gene therapy approved for roll-out without having researched genotoxicity?
Have mRNA vaccines caused any adverse effects fertility, birth rates or pregnancies?

What science data was used to qualify official statements of safe and effective for a novel therapy?

Does corporate sponsorship compromise the integrity and actions of government agencies with the
function on protecting the health of Australian citizens (TGA, AHPRA)?

Are vaccine mandates legal for conditions of employment or are they breaching human rights?

Why is there no recognition of previous covid infection and natural immunity?

Are Australians who were terminated from their employment for declining mRNA vaccinations
eligible for compensation for stress, hardship, financial loss and discrimination?

Were border closures and lockdowns that divided families and stranded people interstate and
overseas legal and/or ethical?

What science data was used to develop pandemic restrictions such as mask wearing, close contacts,
social distancing, lockdowns, indoor and outdoor restrictions etc?

Were forced quarantine requirements, lockdown infringements and penalties valid/legal or
necessary?

Were the actions of law enforcement officers in upholding covid restrictions legal or necessary?

Were our hospital and emergency services equipped and resourced adequately to cope with the
pandemic?

What was the cost to Australia of the closure of business, industry, and schools?

Are Australian small businesses entitled to seek compensation for forced closures or loss of business
resulting from the pandemic lockdowns?

What science was used to determine what businesses could remain open during the covid
pandemic?

Did government or corporate interests facilitate censorship and bias related to covid information?

What covid censorship occurred on citizens freedom of speech and what impact does this have on
Australian democracy?

What is the extent of mRNA vaccine injures/deaths in Australia?

How much compensation money has been paid out for vaccine injuries/deaths?

Is there a link between the mRNA vaccines and increased Australian excess deaths?
Why are details of mRNA vaccine contracts with pharmaceutical companies not available to
Australian citizens?

What covid misinformation or disinformation was communicated by Australian government
agencies/officials?

What covid misinformation or disinformation was communicated by Australian media organisations?

To what extent has public trust in the integrity of Australian institutions been damaged by the covid
response?

What consequences/penalties should apply to individuals/institutions/organisations or corporations
that are found guilty of acting unethically, illegally or corruptly during the covid pandemic?
My name is                    and I am a Registered Nurse, as is my wife. We both have more than 25
years' experience in the health industry in various settings (mental health, general, disability and
aged care). At the start of the covid pandemic, we were both employed in the aged care sector (my
wife as^^^^^^|and myself                                                At the height of the pandemic
in Australia (lockdown) we were both working from home and our son was completing his HSC via
online education due to school closures. This was a period of fear and uncertainty and very
disruptive to our lives as it was for most everyone.

Our fear was mostly generated from seeing images and stories on mainstream and social media of
people dropping dead in the streets of China, or being left to die in Italian homes by paramedics who
informed their loved ones that hospitals were overflowing with people dying alone on ventilators. I
now look back at those images and stories and wonder if they were in fact staged and choregraphed
to instil fear and gain control of our lives. I say this not as a conspiracy theorist or lunatic but as a
critical thinker with the lived experience of having survived covid infection (as has my wife and son)
and those stories and images do not align with our experiences or that of other people we know
who have been infected.

In response to the fear we were experiencing, we (as a family) decided to be proactive and take
steps to prevent contracting the virus. We reduced our movements, stayed at home, wore a face
mask when going out and listened to the regular government and health official updates from
Premier Gladys Berejiklian and Health Minister Brad Hazard. We abided by the rules and regulations
and spent quite a bit of time researching the latest data related to topic.

When the "Speed of Science" roll-out of the mRNA vaccines commenced, we were initially of the
opinion that we would be vaccinated asap. The only concern was that my wife has
^^^^^and other chronic health conditions, and we were hearing stories of people experiencing
adverse reactions to the mRNA vaccines.

This made us reflect on the risks of taking an experimental gene therapy with no long-term safety
data. So we started looking for any alternative treatment options. At that time (June/21) we were
concerned but of the opinion that we would likely proceed with the mRNA vaccine if an alternative
option (such as a traditional protein-based vaccine) did not become available.

Our concerns related to adverse effects from mRNA therapy were realised further when my wife was
assigned a work project that involved follow-up contact with aged care employees re: updating their
employment vaccination status. To comply with the health and aged care mandate requirements,
employees were (are) required to provide evidence of mRNA vaccination. My wife would contact
employees and then assist these staff to update their vaccination records. During these
conversations there were several instances of people citing injuries/hospitalisations shortly after
vaccination and many expressed concerns that they believed these injuries were a direct
consequence of the mRNA vaccines.

It was around this time; I became aware of some data from Dr Pierre Khory and Dr Peter McCulloch
from the United States that suggested possible safe alternatives. These options
(Hydroxychloroquine, Ivermectin, Zinc, Vitamin D) had excellent long term safety profiles and early
data indicated excellent outcomes as a prophylactic and early treatment for covid. Both Dr Khory
and Dr McCulloch spoke of clinical trials in various locations around the world that demonstrated
efficacy and exceptional safety. Both spoke from experience having prescribed these treatments
options in their own clinical practices with similar outcomes.
My wife and I immediately sought to schedule medical appointments to see doctors to be prescribed
these treatments with the hope of 1) preventing contracting covid and 2) to avoid mRNA therapy by
being provided with an exemption. It was at this time that there was a massive media campaign to
discredit Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin as veterinary treatments with no peer reviewed data
or evidence of covid safety/efficacy.

Debate on alternative treatment options was censored or discredited in the Australian parliament.
MP Craig Kelly was citing peer reviewed data in support of Ivermectin as a safe and effective
treatment option for covid which eminent Australian doctor and immunologist Dr Robert Clancy
supported. However, the TGA and Former Minister for Health Greg Hunt eventually took steps to
prevent Australian doctors' ability to prescribe these treatments.

I am concerned by the political and media coverage of the covid pandemic and unequivocal support
for mRNA injections, even though there is certainly evidence that much of what was being stated
was incorrect. "You won't catch, spread, become ill or die from covid" if you have the injection. The
Pfizer mRNA injection was self-reported to have a 95% efficacy. Political leaders and other health
officials had this lockstep narrative of "mRNA therapy being safe and effective" which as a medical
professional, made me question how they can make such a statement for a novel treatment without
long term clinical data to support such a claim. The only risks mentioned were possible rare side
effects such as a sore arm.

In the end my wife and I made the difficult decision to decline the mRNA gene therapy which
resulted in us being terminated from our employment and effectively isolated from our profession.
The immediate consequences of this decision were loss of income, little hope of future professional
employment, anxiety and concern over household bills, mortgage etc. Neither of our employers
wanted to lose us as we were valued senior members of our employment teams. I was fortunate to
have been absorbed into another role within my organisation (however no work vehicle, no
commissions, dramatic reduction in salary). My wife, however, was unemployed for approximately
two years and is now working part time since the mandates were lifted in some sectors of
healthcare.

Our son was unsuccessful in completing his HSC which I believe was largely due to the closure of
schools and disruption to learning methods. He entered a^^^^^^pprenticeship which at the
time required him to have the mRNA vaccine to work in the^^^^Jindustry (which was later
removed as a requirement). He reluctantly chose to take the vaccination so he could commence but
now regrets having succumbed to this coercive strategy. Fortunately he has not shown any
indications of adverse reaction.

The pandemic response has had a detrimental impact mental health in our community. The
lockdowns, pandemic restrictions, health surveillance and 24/7 covid fear mongering in the media,
by politicians and health officials has taken a toll on our lives and for many within our community.
People stopped talking to each other and families and friends were divided




I was so concerned by the discrimination and two-tiered society that was being created (vaccinated
and unvaccinated) that I wrote on several occasions to my local member (^^^^^^^^^Jand
later                                              I brought to their attention my personal situation
and concerns for the future and asked for their support. In neither instance did I receive any
response or assistance. We were shouted down by the community for having a point of view that
apposed the mainstream narrative of getting vaccinated and locking down. We were made to feel
like we were endangering our community, and our actions would kill others. We lost friends, were
rejected by some family members, were unable to discuss our decision at work and in the social
media world we were confronted by those that wanted us dead or locked up. Many of these
conditions still exist, however, many of our friends and family have apologised for their reactions
and acknowledge that they were reacting out of fear. Much of life has returned to pre-covid times
and yet a lot has stayed the same. For example, I am still unable to return to my professional role.

The economy was detrimentally affected by the pandemic response. Australia's approach of shutting
down businesses, schools, tourism etc was very extreme when compared to other countries that
took a more conservative strategy of only isolating the vulnerable and thereby keeping the economy
going. I am afraid that the enormous debt incurred during the pandemic response will take many
generations of Australians to pay off.

A good example of the economic impact of the pandemic response is that of my sister who
purchased a business just prior to the pandemic. She needed to renovate the premises, however the
construction work and building approval process was extended due to restrictions in place, which
delayed the opening of here business for several months. Shortly after the business was officially
opened, she was forced to close due to pandemic restrictions that were enacted. The financial
impact and stress caused by these delays and restrictions were too great and she was forced to close
the business within a year of opening at significant loss. This had an impact on my family and thefl
people her business employed and their families. I imagine there are many, many other stories of
similar hardship caused by the pandemic response.

However, I can't help but notice that some businesses thrived and were even incentivised by the
pandemic response. Some big businesses were given taxpayer funded money, even if their trade was
unaffected by the pandemic. Services NSW provided vouchers to NSW citizens that could be used in
businesses like Pizza Hut, McDonalds and KFC who were actually making a killing during the
lockdowns. Whereas small restaurants and take away businesses were ignored. Bottle shops and
hardware giants were identified as essential businesses and permitted to stay open throughout the
pandemic, but smaller businesses were forced to close to comply with restrictions.

A classic case was the^^^^^^^Hbusiness in Victoria with an individual franchisee being unable
to operate their business outdoors, but government councils were permitted to conduct similar
operations with a team of people. How does that make sense?

Then there is the example of Qantas whose business was dramatically impacted by the pandemic
restrictions. They were bailed out at enormous cost to taxpayers before eventually laying off many
of its permanent employees. Did they re-employ the staff they had dismissed once restrictions were
lifted and operations recommenced. Not exactly, many were re-employed under different conditions
and entitlements (less pay and security). Not what I would consider very Australian of the flying
kangaroo. And as a further kick in the collective Australian guts, we are not repaid the taxpayer relief
when huge profits returned and then we learn that they are price gouging by selling cancelled flights
and failing to honour travel vouchers.

One neighbour received a huge fine for breaching travel restrictions when they visited a relative's
house to feed the pets of a relative that was in hospital.
My concern is that we (Australia) are destined to make the same mistakes, if we fail to learn from
mistakes of the past and therefore implore a full enquiry into the Australian pandemic response.
Given the gravity of the impact of the pandemic on our society and economy it should warrant a
Royal Commission, as we were assured would happen by the Albanese government prior to his
election as our current Prime Minister. Essentially, I believe government officials will see the
opportunity to gain greater influence and control over citizens by creating emergencies that allow
their office to bypass basic human rights and conditions.

Media censorship and misinformation is something that needs to be addressed in the enquiry into
the pandemic response. I believe most Australians are now very aware of the corporate interests
that have too much control over what we see and hear in the Australian media landscape. I am
greatly concerned by MP Michelle Rowland who is now the Minister for Communication, with plans
to introduce the Misinformation and Disinformation Bill into Australia. As I previously mentioned,
the media and government (in my opinion) presented a uniform narrative of safe and effective
misinformation. Interestingly, media and government will be exempt from this new Bill.

Free press and freedom of speech is the foundation of a democratic society and there is evidence of
a global shift occurring with the aim of enshrining laws to restrict speech and the sharing of
information. This is a concerning trend that I believe is a real threat to our country and the world at
large. Therefore I would expect that any investigation into the pandemic response would address
this topic and conduct a full review of what was presented to Australians during the pandemic and
separate fact from fiction. Who was shutdown and condemned in the media and how we can ensure
truth and accountability in media.

AHPRA and the TGA are regulatory bodies with a lot of influence in the healthcare of Australians.
These unelected groups should be thoroughly investigated by the enquiry for their decision making
during the pandemic. As a registered nurse, I am required to act in accordance with AHPRA
standards of clinical practice. I am concerned that this accreditation body has placed restrictions that
prevent practitioners informing patients/consumers of potential adverse effects of mRNA
vaccinations or provide alternative therapies. I am concerned that the TGA is heavily funded by
pharmaceutical companies and these entities could have significant influence over therapies
approved for use in Australia.
