SUBMISSION

This submission is concerned with the inconsistencies between claims made
by the Australian Government, the Prime Minister and state premiers with
regards the Pfizer COVID vaccine which were not supported, and at times
contradicted, by statements in documents filed at the US SEC by Biontech.


Examples of such instances include, under the following rubrics:

Vaccine Durability
The developer of the Pfizer COVID vaccine, Comirnaty,
BioNTech SE has lodged documents at the US Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC), pursuant to US securities disclosure laws.

The documents in         BioNTech SB's annual report for the year ended 31 December
2021 It includes this statement which is among a range of cautionary statements that the
company is bound by law to alert investors to:

"..... the durability of (the) immune response generated by our COVID-19 vaccine....has
not yet been demonstrated in clinical trials........ "

This is an important issue for investors for a vaccine with limited durability is not going
to sell well, if at all. Taxpayers would not be willing to spend billions on a vaccine that
provides protection for only a relatively short amount of time.

However, in Australia, we have in fact seen the then Prime Minister, Scott
Morrison, and the state leaders in particular then Premier Daniel Andrews of
Victoria and then Premier Gladys Berekilian of
NSW promoting the Pfizer/ BioNTech COVID vaccine, as if it were guaranteed to
provide life long protection. In the process they have expanded billions.



Side Effects Suffered By Pregnant Women And Their Foetuses

BioNTech , the producer of the Pfizer has disclosed to the US Security And Exchanges
Commission that "available data on Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine administered to
pregnant women are insufficient to inform vaccine-associated risks in pregnancy".


It has also disclosed that "data are not available to assess the effects of Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine on the breastfed infant or on milk production/excretion".

The BioNTech SEC disclosure is available at this
link https:// nvestors.biontech.de/node/9626/html .

However, The Australian Government, via the Commonwealth Department Of Health,
ordered pregnant women to get COVID vaccinated so that their unborn and they may be
protected from the "high risk" of catching COVID.
The above and other contradictions were made public on the Realpolitikasia Blog (see
examples below), and distributed among media and politicians , so government officials
cannot claim ignorance, In any case the SEC archine is available to the public free of
charge.


END




realoolitikasia
Sunday, September 5, 2021


BioNTech says two doses of its vaccine provide
maximum protection-Hospitalisation, less severe cases,
spike in cases, are signs of vaccine failure and not of the
vaccine working


by Ganesh Sahathevan




More from BioNTech's SEC filings:

On November 18, 2020, we and Pfizer announced that,
after conducting the final efficacy analysis in our
ongoing Phase 3 study, BNT162b2 met all of the study's
primary efficacy endpoints. In this pivotal Phase 3
trial of BNT162b2, there were over 44,000 participants
who were 16 years and older, 21,720 of whom received
the two-dose regimen of 30 pg BNT162b2, which was given
21 days apart, and 21,728 of whom received the
placebo. Among 36,523 participants who had no evidence
of existing or prior SARS-CoV-2 infection at the time
of the immunizations, there were 170 cases of COVID-19
observed at least seven days after the second dose. Of
these 170 cases of COVID-19, 162 cases occurred among
placebo recipients and eight cases occurred
in vaccine recipients, corresponding to
95.0% vaccine efficacy. Among
participants with and without evidence of
prior SARS CoV-2 infection, there
were nine cases of COVID-19 among vaccine
recipients and 169 among placebo
recipients, corresponding to a 94.6%
vaccine efficacy. The cumulative
incidence of COVID-19 cases over time
among placebo and vaccine recipients
began to diverge by 12 days after the
first dose, and 52.4% vaccine efficacy
was observed between the first and
Second doses, indicating the early onset of a
partially protective effect of immunization.   TWO
doses of vaccine provide the maximum
protection observed. Ten cases of severe COVID-19
were observed with onset after the first dose. Nine
cases occurred among placebo recipients and one among
BNT162b2 recipients.




Meanwhile government leaders everywhere, the latest
being the NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian, insist that
all vaccines including the Pfizer BioNTech are working,
for they prevent the severe cases that require
hospitalisation. That is not what BioNTech claimed.




TO BE READ WITH
realpolitikasia
Monday, August 30, 2021


BioNTech's SEC disclosed risk factors include "
limited regulatory experience with mRNA
immunotherapies": Despite the warning,
governments worldwide have insisted that they have
the skills to evaluate, at record speed, the use of the
Pfizer/BioNTech COVID vaccine
by Ganesh Sahathevan




More from BioNTech's SEC disclosures. Again, from 2020
Annual Report:
"...mRNA drug development has substantial clinical
development and regulatory risks due to limited
regulatory experience with mRNA immunotherapies...".

This writer cannot recall any government authority
admitting to the risk of limited experience with mRNA
immunotherapies .
Instead governments everywhere have approved and begun
supplying the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine to their people,

The Australian Government, in typical fashion, via its
ABC media service, has even launched a media campaign
where it asserts that "no corners have been cut" in
manufacturing and approving any of the COVID vaccines.

TO BE READ WITH



Saturday, August 28, 2021


 fi mJ ioN      ch     fd. nvi c   ha
durabil ty of the immune response of its COVID
vaccine had " not yet been demonstrated in clinical
tr als,,-US SEC c sclosure by BioNTech calls for
i nvestigation into Scott Morrison, I Dan tel Andrews,
and Gladys Berekilian's promotion of Pfizer/
Bi oN' jc
by Ganesh Sahathevan




Prime Minister Scott Morrison had his Covid jab in February 2021.



The developer of the Pfizer COVID vaccine, Comirnaty,
BioNTech SE has lodged documents at the US Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC), pursuant to US securities disclosure laws.

The documents include BioNTech SB's annual report for the year ended 31 December
 o It includes this statement which is among a range of cautionary statements that the
company is bound by law to alert investors to:

"..... the durability of (the) immune response generated by our COVID-19 vaccine....has
not yet been demonstrated in clinical trials........ "

This is an important issue for investors for a vaccine with limited durability is not going
to sell well, if at all. Taxpayers would not be willing to spend billions on a vaccine that
provides protection for only a relatively short amount of time.

However, in Australia, we have in fact seen the Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, and the
state leaders in particular Premier Daniel Andrews of Victoria and Premier Gladys
Berekilian of NSW promoting the Pfizer/ BioNTech COVID vaccine, as if it were
guaranteed to provide life long protection. In the process they have expanded billions.
Taxpayers are entitled to an explanation.

END
Posted by <             id
Posted by (             n at 7:22 PM
Posted bv Ganesh        al    an it 9:31 PM
Posted by qanesh sahathevan at
