.^3
      ®   Australian Government
          Department of Education




Department of Education
submission
Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry

December 2023
Contents
Department of Education written submission........................................................................................ 1
   Introduction and Background............................................................................................................. 3
   Early Childhood Education and Care................................................................................................... 4
      Roles and responsibilities, including governance........................................................................... 4
      Policy changes during the pandemic.............................................................................................. 6
      Pandemic impacts......................................................................................................................... 13
      Lessons learned and other observations ...................................................................................... 14
   Schools...............................................................................................................................................15
      Roles and responsibilities, including governance......................................................................... 15
      Policy changes during the pandemic............................................................................................ 17
      Pandemic impacts......................................................................................................................... 19
      Lessons learned and other observations ...................................................................................... 21
   Higher Education and Research........................................................................................................ 22
      Roles and responsibilities, including governance......................................................................... 22
      Policy changes during the pandemic............................................................................................ 22
      Pandemic impacts......................................................................................................................... 26
      Lessons learned and other observations ...................................................................................... T1




                                                                                                                                                       I 2
Introduction and Background
The Department of Education (the department) welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to
the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) to identify lessons learned
to improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics.

For much of the pandemic, the department was part of the Department of Education, Skills and
Employment (DESE). This submission relates to the department's current areas of portfolio
responsibility: early childhood education and care, youth policy, schools, higher education,
international education, and research. For information related to the Australian Government's
pandemic response relating to employment and skills (including Vocational Education and Training
or "VET"), please refer to the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (DEWR).

This submission is divided into sections, each of which relates to one of the three main sectors in the
department's portfolio responsibilities:

•   Early childhood education and care,
•   Schools, and
•   Higher education, research and international education.

The Australian education system is complex and involves shared responsibilities across multiple
levels of government and with the private sector. Furthermore, responsibilities and governance
approaches evolved as the pandemic proceeded. As such, each section of this submission is
structured into four sub-sections:

•   A description of the roles and responsibilities within the sector, including the governance
    arrangements used for decision making and how these changed over time.
•   A description of the key policy changes and interventions in the sector introduced by the
    Australian Government during the pandemic.
•   A summary of the available research into the impact of the pandemic on the sector and the
    children and families who use its services.
•   A summary of lessons learned and other observations that may be useful given the Inquiry's
    focus on future pandemic preparedness.




                                                                                                     I 3
Early Childhood Education and Care

Roles and responsibilities, including governance
Early childhood education and care is delivered by approved providers and services. The Australian
Government subsidises the cost of care. State and territory governments ensure the health, safety,
wellbeing, and educational outcomes of children.

The Australian Government, through the department and Services Australia, administers the Child
Care Subsidy (CCS). Providers must be approved by the department to receive CCS. The department
is also responsible for the legislation that underpins CCS, which is known as Family Assistance Law
(FAL). All providers that receive CCS must follow the rules under FAL. The department monitors
providers' compliance with FAL while Services Australia operationalises CCS with families and
providers. The department also delivers grants to help services address barriers to child care
participation, in particular, for those experiencing disadvantage, regional and remote communities
and Indigenous communities.

Under the National Quality Framework (NQF), the Australian and state and territory governments,
and providers are responsible for the health, safety, wellbeing and educational outcomes of
children. State- and territory-based education departments regulate services under the Education
and Care Services National Law through the NQF. The NQF sets the standards and administers the
regulatory system by which education and care is delivered to children. The NQF includes two
nationally approved learning frameworks that support and promote children's learning. Providers
must be approved by their state government to deliver education and care services under the NQF.
The Australian Children's Education and Care Quality Authority (ACECQA) is an independent national
authority that supports the administration of the NQF.

State and territory governments are responsible for delivering preschool services. The Australian
Government contributes funding to states and territories to deliver preschool. The department
delivers this through the Preschool Reform Agreement (PRA).

These responsibilities for early childhood education and care were unchanged during the pandemic.

The Australian Government's response in meeting the needs of families using early childhood and
care and services through the pandemic was supported by:

•   bespoke internal governance within the department,
•   collaboration with other Australian Government agencies,
•   continuing governance arrangements with state and territory government officials responsible
    for early childhood education and care,
•   frequent engagement with various representatives of the early childhood education and care
    sector, and
•   surveying services and parents.




                                                                                                    I 4
Apart from the governance arrangements that were set up to inform National Cabinet, the
Australian Government's response in supporting the early childhood education and care sector was
largely governed through existing government and sector governance mechanisms via an increase in
the frequency and intensity of the department's communication with, and engagement of, existing
government and sector governance mechanisms.

Internally, the department set up the Early Childhood and Child Care COVID-19 Response -
Implementation and Assurance Committee. This Committee included senior executive staff
responsible for early childhood education and care, corporate services and representation from
Services Australia and the Department of Finance. The Early Childhood and Child Care COVID-19
Response - Implementation and Assurance Committee:

•   oversaw the implementation of the Early Childhood and Care COVID-19 pandemic response
    packages
•   identified and monitored progress against key performance measures and budgets
•   established and oversaw appropriate internal governance
•   identified and implemented risk controls and treatments
•   identified and managed potential and emerging issues
•   considered assurance reports and monitored the implementation of any recommendations
•   ensured key documentation was up to date
•   oversaw planning for the 4 week and 12 week reviews of the relief package, and
•   allocated and oversaw resourcing to facilitate timely and effective delivery

The development of the initial relief package in April 2020 highlighted the strength of the
department's formal and informal relationships with peak bodies and sector advocates, enabling
rapid engagement with key partners to gather input, test assumptions and inform solutions.
Similarly, the successful establishment of business continuity payments across the early childhood
education and care sector and an online application form for additional payments depended on an
agile approach to problem solving and effective collaboration between governments and industry.
The strength of external communications, stakeholder engagement, records management, risk
identification and management and the fraud and compliance framework for the relief package
were key enablers in delivering these outcomes.

The Early Childhood Education and Care Reference Group (ECECRG) is the key mechanism through
which the department engages with representatives of the early childhood education and care
sector. Matters relating to COVID-19 were discussed with ECECRG starting in early February 2020.
From March 2020, ECECRG members held weekly meetings focused on sector issues arising from the
COVID-19 pandemic and the implementation of measures to assist the sector.

The department also participated in ongoing Early Childhood Policy Group (ECPG) meetings. These
meetings were between officials from the Australian Government and state and territory
departments with responsibility for early childhood education and care matters and were key
forums for ensuring collaboration across all jurisdictions during the pandemic. In 2020 and 2021,
there were ongoing discussions on COVID-19 related impacts on the sector, including government
measures announced as part of the COVID-19 response. ECPG agenda matters were informed by the
direction of, and sought endorsement of, the Australian Education Senior Officials Committee
(AESOC) and the Education Council.




                                                                                                     I 5
For parts of 2020, CCS data was unavailable.1 In response, the department commissioned surveys to
gain a deeper understanding of the impact of the pandemic on services and families' access to care,
gathered and assessed feedback on the impact of the supports and sought suggestions on next
steps. Representations to the Minister for Education and the department about the impact of the
pandemic on families, educators and the sector also informed policy development and
implementation.

Further information about how sector engagement informed policy and implementation of support
for the sector during 2020 and 2021 can be found in:

•      Early Childhood Education and Care Relief Package Four Week Review Summary Report
       published by the department in May 2020
•      Early Childhood Education and Care - Path to Recovery Report published by the department in
       August 2020

The Early Childhood Education and Care COVID-19 response packages required amendments to the
FAL and new ways of delivering support. In April 2020, the CCS funding mechanism (the CCS System)
was, in effect, switched off and replaced with business continuity payments to all approved
providers. The department also provided supplementary grants to eligible providers. The Services
Australia Emergency Management Framework was used to target support by state and local
government area. To implement the Viability Package, Parliament passed amendments to the FAL
enabling the CCS System to operate concurrently with the business continuity payment system in
delivering payments to services. These legislative and technical innovations demonstrated the
department and Services Australia's ability to respond to rapidly changing social, economic and
health circumstances caused by an unprecedented pandemic threat. Changes to the IT payment
systems were informed by the views of the sector and designed and delivered in consideration of
the whole-of-government response to the COVID-19 pandemic.


Policy changes during the pandemic
Table 1: Summary of supports in the Early Childh )d Education and Care sector

    Initiative                      Description
    Early Childhood                 •    The Australian Government announced the ECEC Relief Package on
    Education and Care                   2 April 2020, which was implemented from 6 April 2020 to
    (ECEC) Relief                        12 July 2020.
    Package                         •    The main feature of the Relief Package was a Business Continuity
                                         Payment calculated to be 50 per cent of fee revenue or 50 per cent of
                                         the existing hourly rate cap - whichever was lower - during the
                                         fortnight leading into 2 March 2020, at an estimated cost of
                                         $1.9 billion. These payments replaced the CCS and Additional CCS
                                         from 6 April 2020 to 12 July 2020.



1
    Normally, information is collected from providers about the care used by individual children to determine CCS payments. In response to
the mass withdrawals of children from child care in early 2020, the government introduced a business continuity payment from 6 April
2020 to 12 July 2020 as a temporary rescue measure to replace the CCS System for families and child care providers. The business
continuity payment measure did not require the reporting of child care usage information from providers to Services Australia.




                                                                                                                                        I 6
Initiative          Description
                    •   The Business Continuity Payment was conditional on services
                        remaining open (unless closed on public health grounds), providing
                        care and not charging families for care.
                    •   The Relief Package provided access to free child care with priority for
                        available places given to children of essential workers, vulnerable and
                        disadvantaged children, as well as those with pre-existing enrolments.
                        The Relief Package was intended as a temporary rescue measure.
                    •   It was designed to ensure the viability of the child care sector, and
                        guarantee funding, while continuing to make child care accessible to
                        families.
                    •   It was designed to work in conjunction with a range of other
                        Australian Government assistance, including the JobKeeper Payment.
                    •   Supplementary payments in addition to the business continuity
                        payments were initially only available to services which could
                        demonstrate that they were providing more care than they provided
                        during the reference period.
                    •   On 10 April 2020, the Australian Government announced services
                        would be able to apply for exceptional circumstances Supplementary
                        Relief Payment to support services to remain open, for example, if the
                        service was providing more hours of care than in the reference
                        period.
                    •   On 1 May 2020, the Australian Government announced that ECEC
                        providers, including non-government schools, large charities and not-
                        for-profit organisations which were not eligible for JobKeeper
                        Payments, would be eligible for an Additional Supplementary Payment
                        under the ECEC Relief Package. Family Day Care and In Home Care
                        Educators who were not eligible for JobKeeper Payments would also
                        be eligible for an Additional Supplementary Payment, so long as the
                        educators applied for an ABN (Australian Business Number) by
                        1 June 2020.
                    •   State and local government services were not able to get extra
                        support on the basis of JobKeeper ineligibility. However, the New
                        South Wales, South Australian and Queensland governments
                        subsequently announced that they would meet the extra costs for
                        local council and state government providers unable to access
                        JobKeeper.
                    •   On 20 May 2020, in response to the review of the Relief Package, the
                        Australian Government announced an additional $12.8 million
                        (including for services with more than 30 per cent of full-time
                        equivalent staff ineligible for JobKeeper Payments) and $800,000 for
                        In Home Care.
                    •   In May 2020, with the support of the Relief Package, of the more than
                        13,000 child care services nationally, 99 per cent were operational.

Preschool funding   •   On 3 April 2020, the Australian Government announced that it would
for 2021                extend the 2018-2020 National Partnership on Universal Access to
                        Early Childhood Education in 2021 to support almost 340,000 children
                        to access preschool, at an estimated cost of $453.2 million.




                                                                                              I 7
Initiative            Description
                      •   The extension of the National Partnership relaxed performance
                          requirements for state and territory governments for 2020 and 2021
                          in recognition of COVID-19 impacts.

§10,000 Grants for    •   On Tl April 2020, the Australian Government announced an additional
child care services       §26.2 million in Community Child Care Fund Special Circumstances
and children              grants of up to §10,000 to child care services to ensure they can
                          continue providing care to children of essential workers.

ECEC Transition       •   As people began to return to their workplaces and business began to
Package                   re-open, on 8 June 2020, the Australian Government announced that
                          the CCS (and Additional CCS) would return from 13 July 2020, along
                          with some specific measures to support families and services back to
                          the Subsidy.
                      •   The Australian Government agreed to make Transition Payments -
                          estimated to cost §708 million - to early childhood and child care
                          services covering the period 13 July 2020 to Tl September 2020.
                      •   These payments were instead of JobKeeper Payments (which ceased
                          on 20 July 2020) and were calculated at 25 per cent of fee revenue or
                          25 per cent of the existing hourly rate cap - whichever was lower
                          during the relevant reference fortnight (which in most cases was the
                          period of 17 February 2023 to 1 March 2020).
                      •   Other features of the Transition Package were:

                                o   a relaxed activity test until 4 October 2020 to support
                                    eligible families whose employment had been impacted as a
                                    result of COVID-19
                                o   fee capping to the level in the relevant reference period
                                o   services needed to continue over the transition period to
                                    employ and to offer work to the employees who were paid
                                    in the fortnight leading up to the end of the Relief Package
                                    (or the relevant fortnight for new and vacation care only
                                    services)
                                o   a streamlined application process for Additional CCS
                                    (temporary financial hardship), and
                                o   providers were also required - as one of the conditions of
                                    receiving the Transition Payment - to agree not to claim
                                    JobKeeper for employees or for themselves.

Additional support    •   On 7 July 2020, following a resurgence of COVID-19 in Victoria, the
to Victorian child        Australian Government announced additional assistance for Victorian
care services             services, on top of the transitional measures applying nationally from
                          13 July 2020.
                      •   Specifically, services in a location then subject to Stage 3 COVID-19
                          restrictions had the ability to waive gap fees to 31 December 2020, in
                          circumstances where the service remained open and a child was not
                          attending due to COVID-19. This was later extended to all of Victoria.




                                                                                                   I 8
Initiative         Description
                   •   On 30 July 2020, the Australian Government announced an additional
                       $6.85 million would be provided to support Outside School Hours
                       Services in metropolitan Melbourne and Mitchell Shire (which had
                       been affected by the Victorian Government's decision to scale back
                       school attendance in reaction to the COVID-19 situation).

                             o   Specifically, these services would be offered an additional
                                 payment - of 15 per cent of pre-COVID-19 revenue for
                                 eight weeks - if they confirmed their attendance levels had
                                 fallen below 40 per cent. This was later extended to all of
                                 Victoria.

                   •   On 5 August 2020, the Australian Government announced that an
                       additional $33 million would be provided to support services in
                       Victoria:

                             o   across all of Victoria (i.e. where Stage 3 and Stage 4
                                 COVID-19 restrictions applied)

                                 ■     Families would receive an additional 30 days of
                                       allowable absences.
                                 ■     The gap fee waiver (announced on 7 July 2020) and the
                                       Outside School Hours Care (OSHC) payment (announced
                                       on 30 July 2020 for metro Melbourne and Mitchell Shire)
                                       would be extended.

                             o   for Melbourne only (where Stage 4 restrictions applied)

                                 ■     a higher Transition Payment of 30 per cent of pre-COVID
                                       revenue for Melbourne child care services to assist
                                       services to keep workers employed (totalling
                                       $16.3 million)
                                 ■     an additional top-up payment for eligible services that
                                       were receiving low CCS payments and were experiencing
                                       very low attendance (totalling $16 million).

Extended support   •   On 15 September 2020, the Australian Government announced an
for Victoria           additional $12.6 million to extend the current support measures for
                       Victoria from mid-August until Tl September 2020, in line with
                       Victoria's roadmap to reopening.

                             o       For Metro Melbourne (extending stage 4 support package)
                                 ■     A 30 per cent Transition Payment
                                 ■     Low CCS payment
                                 ■     OSHC 15 per cent payment
                                 ■     Employment Guarantee
                                 ■     Fee freeze
                                 ■     Waive gap fees when not attending was available.




                                                                                               I 9
Initiative      Description
                          o       For regional Victoria (extending Stage 3 support package)
                              ■      25 per cent Transition Payment
                              ■      OSHC 15 per cent payment
                              ■      Victorian low charged hours special circumstances
                                     payment
                              ■      Employment Guarantee
                              ■      Fee Freeze
                              ■      Waive gap fees when not attending was available.

ECEC Recovery   •   The Recovery Package, announced on 20 September 2020, included
Package             $305.6 million in support for Victorian ECEC services up to the end of
                    January 2021, as follows:

                          o   Around $36.6 million for OSHC services
                          o   Around $269 million for all other ECEC services.

                •   For Centre Based Day Care, Family Day Care and In Home Care
                    services in all parts of Victoria, the Recovery Package included a new
                    25 per cent Recovery Payment with conditions attached, including a
                    fee freeze and Employee Guarantee, to protect families and workers
                    and applied from 28 September 2020 until 31 January 2021. It also
                    included a relaxation of the Activity Test.
                •   On Tl September 2020, the Victorian government announced the
                    bringing forward of dates for the resumption of face-to-face schooling
                    in regional Victoria to 5 October 2020 and in metro Melbourne to
                    12 October 2020. To support Victorian OSHC in their recovery, at a
                    cost of $8.6 million, the Australian Government continued Transition
                    Payments to services in regional Victoria up to 12 October 2020 and in
                    metro Melbourne up to 19 October 2020 which was when
                    face-to-face schooling was originally expected to resume.
                •   After that time, OSHC services received the 25 per cent Recovery
                    Payment, plus an additional payment of 15 per cent of their
                    pre-COVID revenue, taking the total support to 40 per cent.

                          o   This was in place until end of the school year for OSHC-only
                              services.
                          o   Victorian vacation care providers (and OSHC services
                              providing vacation care) qualified for this additional
                              payment too, for any weeks that they were operational,
                              until 31 January 2021.
                          o   OSHC services continued to be able to waive gap fees when
                              children were not attending due to remote learning while
                              Stage 4 restrictions remained in place.
                •   Whilst receiving Recovery Payments services were required to have in
                    place:
                          o   An Employment Guarantee until 31 January 2021.
                          o   A Fee freeze until 31 January 2021.




                                                                                              | 10
Initiative            Description
                      •   Extra payments including Low CCS, Melbourne metro extra Transition
                          Payment (5 per cent), and low charged hours payments ceased when
                          school began to return to normal from 12 October 2020 for regional
                          Victoria and from 19 October 2020 for metro Melbourne.



Community Child       •   Until 31 January 2021, services in Victoria at high risk of permanent
Care Fund (CCCF)          closure due to COVID-19, despite the Recovery Payment, also had
Special                   access to funding through CCCF Special Circumstances Grant
Circumstances             Opportunity.
                      •   For the period 12 October 2020 to 31 January 2021, services outside
                          Victoria also could apply for this Grant Opportunity if they were:

                                o   at risk of temporary or permanent closure due to COVID-19,
                                    and
                                o   operating in or servicing families from disadvantaged and
                                    vulnerable communities, or
                                o   operating in a community with limited or no other child
                                    care services.

                      •   As at end of October 2023 CCCF Special Circumstances grants worth
                          $4.3 million have been paid to 144 services (19 Centre Based Day
                          Care, 1 FDC and 124 OSHC services).



Child care Gap Fee    •   From 19 July 2021, child care centres in New South Wales Local
Waiver for NSW            Government Areas across greater Sydney, subject to stay at home
                          orders, could waive gap fees on the days that parents choose to keep
                          their children at home. This was announced by the Australian
                          Government on 15 July 2021.



Additional absence    •   Additional absences were available for families with children in child
days for child care       care services located in Commonwealth-declared COVID-19 hotspots
in COVID-19               of more than seven days. The absences did not count towards a
hotspot locations         family's annual allocation of 42 allowable absence days and were
                          made available for any lockdown, retrospectively, that met the criteria
                          from 23 June 2021 and onwards. This was announced by the
                          Australian Government on 3 August 2021.



Childcare gap fee     •   Child care centres located in any Commonwealth-declared COVID-19
waiver for COVID          hotspot of more than seven days were able to waive gap fees. Services
hotspots                  were able to waive gap fees from day one of the hotspot declaration if
                          a state or territory directs that centres were only open for some
                          children. This was announced by the Australian Government on
                          16 August 2021.




                                                                                                  | 11
Initiative        Description
2021 Viability    •   The Australian Government introduced the Viability Support Package
Support Package       from 23 August 2021 to 30 November 2021 in response to extended
                      lockdowns across the country. The purpose of the viability support
                      payment was to maintain the viability of services and to retain staff,
                      ensuring there was access to child care for those that needed it.
                  •   Under the package, eligible services in Commonwealth-declared
                      COVID-19 hotspots received a business continuity payment
                      (25 per cent of pre-COVID average weekly fees - 40 per cent of pre­
                      COVID average weekly for OSHC services) if:

                            o   the COVID-19 hotspot ran for more than 7 days and the
                                state or territory government had limited who could access
                                child care, or
                            o   the COVID-19 hotspot extended beyond 28 days.

                  •   Eligible services could also waive gap fees and access additional
                      absences.
                  •   $281 million was paid to over 6,300 services in Victoria, NSW, ACT and
                      NT.
                  •   These supports were provided until the state or territory lifted
                      restrictions around access to child care (or school in the case of
                      Outside School Hours Care).
                  •   Viability support payments were contingent on services:

                            o   having reasonable expectations attendance would fall by
                                50 per cent
                            o   not accessing other Australian Government-funded
                                business supports
                            o   waiving gap fees for all families whose children are not
                                attending
                            o   maintaining staffing levels, and
                            o   agreeing to a fee freeze for the duration of viability support
                                payments.

                  •   The regions and timeframes for support under the viability support
                      package were published on the department's internet site.
                  •   Enrolments were extended for children who had not attended care for
                      at least 10 weeks. This ensured that enrolments did not automatically
                      cease after 14 weeks of non-attendance.
                  •   Community Child Care Fund Special Circumstances grant guidelines
                      were updated to account for COVID-related service closures.

Further support   •   Following the conclusion of extended lockdowns, some support
                      measures remained in place to help the sector deal with the
                      continued impact of COVID-19.




                                                                                            | 12
 Initiative                      Description
                                 •    The following measures were available from 1 December 2021 until
                                      30 June 2023:

                                               o    services could waive the gap fee when a child was unable to
                                                    attend care for one of the following reasons:

                                                   ■     the child, or a member of their immediate household,
                                                         had COVID-19
                                                   ■     the child was at a higher risk of severe disease from
                                                         COVID-19
                                                   ■     the service, or a room at the service, was closed due to
                                                         COVID-19

                                               o    all families got 10 extra allowable absences per child in the
                                                    2021-22 and 2022-23 financial years.
                                               o    families could receive CCS for absences that occurred in the
                                                    7 days before a child's first, or after their last, attendance
                                                    when a child had COVID-19.

                                 •    Families could use evidence of a positive COVID-19 test result from a
                                      government agency or pathology service, instead of a medical
                                      certificate, to access additional absences. (This additional absence
                                      provision continues to be available.)




Pandemic impacts

Impact on children and families
Early insights into the effects of the pandemic on children's development suggest that impact may
not have been as substantial as expected with modest increases in developmental vulnerability.2The
impact, however, does not appear to have been evenly felt, with larger increases in developmental
vulnerability seen for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children, children with pre-existing
additional needs (including those with disability) and children living in the most disadvantaged areas
of Australia.3 It may also be too early to know longer term implications of the pandemic on children's
development.


Impact on ECEC providers
The actions of the Australian and state and territory governments to help keep the sector viable
meant that providers and educators could continue delivering support to essential workers and
vulnerable and disadvantaged children, assisting to mitigate the broader effects of the pandemic.




2 E.g. Murdoch Children's Research Institute, January 2022, Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on children   Murdoch Children's Research
Institute - Department of Education, Skills and Employment, Australian Government (dese.gov.au)
3 E.g. Department of Education, Skills and Employment 2021 Australian Early Development Census National Report, P25.




                                                                                                                                  | 13
Nationally, in the March quarter 2022 there were more children (1,338,660 children) in services
approved for CCS than before the start of the pandemic (March quarter 2020 -1,318,900 children).
There were more approved services in the March quarter 2022 (14,034) than in the March quarter
2020 (13,370). The total number of hours attended by children increased 12 per cent in the
March quarter 2022 compared to the hours children attended in the March quarter 2020.

While the Australian Government's response in supporting the viability of early childhood education
and care sector through the pandemic was a success, the experience of services during the
pandemic varied according to where they were located and the type of service they delivered. For
instance, the total hours attended by children in services approved for CCS in Victoria dropped by 46
per cent in the September quarter 2020 compared to hours attended in the March quarter 2020. In
comparison, the hours attended in services in the rest of Australia only dropped by 2 percentage
points by the September quarter 2020. Total hours attended in Victoria later recovered in the
June quarter 2021 to be 12 per cent higher than in the March quarter 2020. It should also be noted
the department has no data for care provided in the June quarter 2020 as the CCS System was
switched off. Attended hours at outside school hours care services nationally reduced by 37 per cent
in the September quarter 2020 compared to the March quarter 2020. Attendance hours then
rebounded to pre-pandemic levels in the June quarter 2021. In comparison, attended hours at all
services approved for CCS nationally rebounded to pre-pandemic levels in the December quarter
2020.

The changes made to the scope of supplementary payments over the course of the relief package
provide additional evidence of differential impact. Further investment in understanding the business
models of each service type is already underway in the department and is being informed by the
insights of Australian Competition and Consumer Commission Childcare Inquiry 2023.


Lessons learned and other observations
If a new pandemic threat emerged, the Australian Government would be well positioned to respond
with proven measures of support to the early childhood education and care sector.

The suitability of potential policy responses will depend on the nature of a pandemic threat and
could include:

•   Additional absence days for children unable to attend child care without penalty to encourage
    compliance with stay-at-home recommendations
•   Gap fee waivers and additional absence days where restrictions are placed on access to child
    care (i.e. where the restriction is introduced to reduce the movement of people and spread of
    the health threat)
•   Gap fee waivers for child care services that are forced to close due to a health response (waiving
    gap fees on days parents keep children home) to support sector viability, reduce out of pocket
    costs and encourage compliance with stay-at-home recommendations
•   Grants for eligible services at risk of imminent closure (temporary or permanent) due to health
    threat and/or response to support sector viability, and
•   Depending on the severity or duration of any new pandemic or health threat, a response could
    also include business continuity payments to services to support sector viability.




                                                                                                   | 14
The rapid response required at the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic was constrained by the pre­
existing legislative and systems framework and highlighted opportunities for enhancements to the
department's ability to support access to care for during localised and broader crises. Some of these
enhancements were able to be progressed through ad hoc legislative change and the use of
Minister's Rules, however an exercise to log the settings that constrained policy and programme
choices behind the relief package could help inform a forward change agenda and future emergency
planning that contemplates sector wide as well as geographically targeted responses.

The speed with which solutions were required also limited opportunities to stress test policy
proposals or engage end users in systems development. This led to manual payment processes and
created challenges for providers trying to engage with the application process. Families could be
better supported, and the viability of the sector maintained, by increasing investment in emergency
response planning and in policy solutions that can be easily understood by stakeholders and
translated into practical delivery solutions. Policy and delivery mechanisms should be flexible
enough to target support effectively, including by incorporating the capacity to adjust payments for
each service as demand rises and falls.

Business continuity payments were a more timely and effective approach to supporting provider and
service viability in the ECEC sector than adjusting CCS settings, particularly during extended periods
of stay at home restrictions. This is because the CCS is governed by the FAL and the implications of
any amendments could have the knock-on implications for families.


Acknowledgement of the role of child care educators during the pandemic
The pandemic highlighted child care as an essential service in meeting the needs of children and in
facilitating workforce participation of other essential workers in the economy. The work of child care
educators and other front line staff throughout the pandemic, in the face of the known health risks,
should be acknowledged by the Inquiry.




Schools

Roles and responsibilities, including governance
Responsibility for policies relating to schools is shared across multiple levels of government in
Australia. Consistent with Australia's constitutional arrangements, state and territory governments
own and manage government schools and are responsible for registering non-government schools in
their jurisdictions. The Australian Government does not own or operate schools.

The Australian Government provides significant funding for schools and is involved in setting
national education policies. Decisions regarding the response to COVID-19 in the schooling sector
were therefore informed by expert, official, national and state-based public health and education
advice.

To assist with this process, the department coordinated and facilitated discussions between
jurisdictions and the non-government sector. In some areas, suitable governance mechanisms
already existed, such as the Schools Policy Group which supports the Australian Education Senior
Officials Committee. In other cases, new governance mechanisms were established.




                                                                                                    I 15
 For example, officials from across jurisdictions established an informal COVID-19 education officials'
network to assist with the management of COVID-19 in educational settings and enable
collaboration across jurisdictions. Throughout the pandemic the network was valuable for officials to
discuss common issues, share best practice approaches and ensure consistent approaches across
jurisdictions. The final meeting of the education officials' network was held on 8 August 2023. With
COVID-19 cases trending down, most jurisdictions are now focusing on recovery and have integrated
COVID management into business-as-usual functions.

In addition, jurisdictions agreed frameworks to help manage the governance of schools policy during
the COVID-19 pandemic, both generally and for specific policy areas.


National Framework for Managing COVID-19 in Schools and Early Childhood
Education and Care
On 13 January 2022, National Cabinet agreed to a         lf   le ork to promote a nationally
consistent approach to the ongoing delivery of high-quality education for all students during
COVID-19.


The Framework was based on six national guiding principles:

•     ECEC services and schools are essential and should be the first to open and the last to close
      wherever possible in outbreak situations, with face-to-face learning prioritised.
•     Baseline public health measures continue to apply.
•     No vulnerable child or child of an essential worker is turned away.
•     Responses to be proportionate and health risk-based.
•     Equip ECEC services and schools to respond on the basis of public health advice and with support
      from public health authorities where required.
•     Wellbeing of children and education staff to be supported.

State and territory governments were responsible for drafting individual operational plans in
consultation with relevant stakeholders and school and ECEC sectors and are available on state and
territory government websites.


National Code on Boarding School Students: Supporting the movement of
    ioar< ng school students during periods of COVID lockdown
Changing state, territory and Local Government Area travel restrictions caused anxiety and
confusion for boarding school students and their families as they moved from their schools to their
homes and back again. This significantly impacted not only the mental health and wellbeing of
students, but that of their families, carers, and the broader school community, including teachers
and support staff. Greater national consistency in supporting students, families and their school
communities was necessary to address these impacts.

Although the jurisdictions' Chief Health Officers are ultimately responsible for deciding how to
manage COVID-19 within their jurisdictions, the discussions and liaison between the department and
the state and territory health and education departments highlighted the vulnerability of the
boarding community (some who were only 12 years old).




                                                                                                      I 16
The Regional Schools Policy Team developed a National Code on Boarding School Students (the
National Code) to address the barriers and inconsistent arrangements experienced by families in
moving across state borders when travelling between their homes and their children's boarding
schools. The National Code was developed following consultation with key education community
stakeholders.

It was subsequently considered by the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee and
endorsed by National Cabinet in September 2021.


Policy changes during the pandemic
Table 2: Summary of supports in the sch als sector

 Initiative             Description
 School Hygiene         •   $9.4 million was paid to 2,765 of 2,857 (97 per cent) non-government
 Assistance Fund            schools in 2020 through the School Hygiene Assistance Fund.

 Ministers Statement    •   Flexibility was provided to the schools' sector in regard to assurance
 of Intent                  and compliance requirements under the Australian Education Act
                            2013 and the Australian Education Regulation 2013 through the
                            Minister's Statement of Intent in 2020 and 2021.

 Early access to        •   $815.3 million was paid under the early access measure to approved
 recurrent funding          authorities in respect of 693 schools for the bringing forward of their
 entitlements               July 2020 recurrent funding entitlements into May and June 2020.

 Capital Grants         •   The Australian Government leveraged the CGP to underpin economic
 Program (CGP)              stimulus activity in 2020 and 2021 by prioritising projects which could
                            be delivered in the immediate term.
                        •   Additionally, in January 2021, CGP payments were brought forward to
                            provide Block Grant Authorities effectively 6 months of payments in
                            advance.

 Schools Upgrade        •   $275.2 million was provided for the Schools Upgrade Fund for
 Fund                       government and non-government schools to improve equitable access
                            to resources and facilities to keep staff and students safe following
                            COVID-19 disruptions, including assistance with better ventilation
                            among other things.

 Emerging Priorities    •   Funded projects that assist school communities to respond to
 Program                    emerging priorities in school education, including recovery from
                            COVID-19.

 Nationally             •   The Nationally Consistent Collection of Data on School Students with
 Consistent                 Disability Guidelines was revised for 2020 to incorporate special
 Collection of Data         provisions due to the impact COVID-19 had on schools' operations.
 on School Students     •   The evidence of adjustments required was reduced from a minimum
 with Disability            of 10 weeks to a minimum of 6 weeks, in the 12 months preceding the
 Guidelines                 reference date.




                                                                                                     I 17
Initiative            Description
                      •   Evidence requirements were revised for specific cohorts of students
                          with disability, including foundation year students, new enrolments,
                          students with newly diagnosed or newly imputed disability, and
                          students attending special assistance schools.

National Mental       •   $2.3 billion was invested in the National Mental Health and Suicide
Health and Suicide        Prevention Plan in the 2021-22 Budget.
Prevention Plan
Student Wellbeing     •   $203.7 million was provided for the Student Wellbeing Boost which
Boost                     includes $192 million in additional one-off funding for every school, to
                          support their students' mental health and wellbeing, and
                          $10.75 million for a new voluntary mental health check tool to enable
                          schools to ensure students get the support they need.
                      •   This funding was in addition to other ongoing programs and support
                          the Australian Government provided to help address the mental
                          health and wellbeing needs of young Australians through other
                          programs, such as the Be You Program, the National Student
                          Wellbeing Program and the Student Wellbeing Hub.

Headspace Services    •   $3 million was provided to support young Victorians to access mental
                          health support through Headspace services. Baseline public health
                          measures continue to apply.
                      •   $3.5 million was provided to support young Australians in NSW to
                          access mental health support through Headspace services, particularly
                          for Year 11 and 12 students. This package of urgent mental health
                          support also included $300,000 to Kids Helpline to extend online
                          wellbeing sessions into secondary schools.

Rapid Antigen Tests   •   At the National Cabinet meeting of 20 January 2022, the Australian
(RATs)                    Government offered financial assistance to states and territories for
                          the use of RATs in schools.
                      •   The offer included a 50:50 cost sharing arrangement with the states
                          and territories under the National Partnership on COVID-19.
                      •   State and territory governments were responsible for the purchase
                          and supply of RATs.

Expansion of the      •   $3 million was invested over 2021-22 and 2022-23 to support the
Smith Family's            expansion of the Smith Family's Catch-up Learning program to
Catch-up Learning         strengthen the literacy and numeracy skills of disadvantaged students
program                   who were struggling in these areas.

National Teacher      •   On 15 December 2022, Education Ministers agreed to the National
Workforce Action          Teacher Workforce Action Plan, which sets out a clear pathway to
Plan                      addressing teacher workforce shortages.
                      •   This was, in part, intended to address workforce shortages that
                          developed due to COVID-19.




                                                                                                  | 18
 Initiative                       Description
                                  •    During the pandemic jurisdictions employed various methods to
                                       address such workforce shortages, including:
                                                o    targeted recruitment of retired teachers and final-year
                                                     teaching students
                                                o    utilising relief teachers and casual support staff
                                                o    registered teachers who were working in corporate roles on
                                                     standby to be redeployed to schools.




Pandemic impacts

Enrolments, attendance and retention
Enrolment growth fell in 2021, in part because the closure of international borders due to COVID-19
affected enrolments of international students and migrants in 2021. In relation to enrolment data,
the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA) noted that in 2021 school:

          Students were considered to be enrolled and active in an education program, even if that
          program had been temporarily disrupted by COVID-19. This included where programs were
          temporarily delivered online or remotely and even where schools were temporarily closed
          for COVID-19 related reasons. Because enrolments were counted in this way, it is estimated
          that the impacts of COVID-19 on data quality were minor.

Student attendance in Semester 1 of Years 1-10 declined slightly in 2021 (compared to 2019)
followed by a larger drop in 2022.4 ACARA have noted:

          The Key Performance Measures Dashboard in the National Report on Schooling data portal
          reports a downward trend over the period 2014-2022 of -0.6 percentage points per annum.
          The lower attendance rates in 2022 can thus be seen as consistent with a long-term trend.
          This interpretation should be made with some caution, as part of the fall from 2019 to 2022
          may have resulted from increased student absences due to illness or suspected illness as
          COVID-19 continued to spread. Attendance rates in Semester 1, 2022 declined due to the
          impact of the COVID-19 Omicron variant as well as high Influenza season outbreaks and
          floods in certain regions experienced across Australia at that time.

Apparent retention rates from Year 10 to Year 12 have declined since 2018. Estimated Year 12
certification rates were lower in 2020 than before COVID-19. However, they returned to the same
level in 2021. It is worth noting that Queensland had a "half cohort" complete Year 12 in 2019, which
lowered the national Year 12 certification rate for this year.

Other data points suggest falls in retention may have been affected by the strong youth labour
market rather than being driven by disengagement from education, training and work. The
proportion of 15-19-year-olds who were fully engaged in education, training or work dropped in
2020 before increasing in 2021. While there has been a decline in 2022 and 2023, the 2023 rate is
still higher than rates reported in 2018 and 2019, before the COVID-19 pandemic.

4 ACARA National Report on Schooling in Australia, as of 23 November 2023. School attendance data for 2020 has not been published due
to inconsistencies in the data as a result of the varying health advice and schooling arrangements across the country in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic (note: updated data will be available publicly from 15 Dec).




                                                                                                                                    | 19
Similarly, the proportion of 20-24-year-olds who were fully engaged in education, training or work
dropped in 2020 but has since steadily increased to 77.4 per cent in 2023, the highest level since
2008. The proportion of 20-24-year-olds who had attained a Year 12, Certificate III or higher
qualification also increased from 88 per cent in 2019 to 89 per cent in 2020 and has been at 90 per
cent from 2021 to 2023.


Educational outcomes
In 2020, the Australian Government commissioned six pieces of research to examine the potential
impact of remote learning from home on educational outcomes for vulnerable cohorts of children,
and barriers to access and evidence-based actions to respond. These were published on the
department's website (see New Research):

•   Learning at home during COVID-19: Effects on vulnerable young Australians.
•   Ministerial Briefing Paper on Evidence of the Likely Impact on Educational Outcomes of
    Vulnerable Children Learning at Home during COVID-19.
•   Supporting Vulnerable Children in the Face of a Pandemic.
•   Impact of learning from home on educational outcomes for disadvantaged children.
•   The impact of 'learning at home' on the education outcomes of vulnerable children in Australian
    during the COVID-19 pandemic.
•   Differential learning outcomes for online versus in-class education.

In December 2021, the department, on behalf of all Education Ministers, asked the Australian
Education Research Organisation (AERO) to undertake a research project examining best practice
remote and online learning prior to, and during, the COVID-19 pandemic. AERO commissioned the
Centre for International Research on Education Systems at Victoria University to conduct the
research. The project's final report, Review of remote and online learning experiences during COVID-
19 (edresearch.edu.au), was published in March 2023.

In 2022, the department commissioned dandolopartners to undertake research on what worked
well in lifting mathematics and numeracy outcomes during COVID-19 and what key aspects could
potentially be further explored and developed as enduring augmentations to mathematics teaching.
The researchers found that there are a variety of technological tools which can be used to help
address some of the key challenges affecting students' maths performance, noting that there is no
'one size fits all' option. More information is available at the research report and resources page.

A Review of the impact of COVID-19 on school students with disability is underway, gathering
feedback received from students, teachers, principals, parents, caregivers, advocates, and other
stakeholders, while also exploring significant contemporary reports and research available at the
time of writing. It is examining:

•   the educational experiences of school students with disability throughout the pandemic
•   the impact of those educational experiences on the wellbeing and education-related outcomes
    of school students with disability; and
•   how support for school students with disability has been managed by governments, education
    authorities and schools.




                                                                                                    | 20
Australia's 2022 PISA results, the first since the pandemic, showed Australia remains a high
performing country with our performance above the OECD average in reading, mathematical and
scientific literacy. Australia's results were consistent with the last cycle in 2018, and show a pause in
the decline seen in results over time. This is an indication of the resilience of Australia's education
system, especially given the sharp and unprecedented declines seen in the results of other countries,
especially in mathematics. Detailed PISA results can be found at www.acer.org/au/pisa.

Education ministers cancelled NAPLAN in 2020 due to the pandemic. Students in Years 3, 5, 7 and 9
in 2020 did not undertake the assessment in 2020 and did not do a 'catch-up' test in 2021. NAPLAN
results for 2021 and 2022 showed consistency in overall student performance, indicating that the
pandemic and other disruptions to schooling, including floods and influenza, had no significant
impact on students' literacy and numeracy achievements at the national or state/territory level.
Participation in NAPLAN 2021 and 2022 were lower than usual as a result of the pandemic, flu
season and floods. Detailed NAPLAN results can be found at                di     Education Ministers
requested AERO to conduct a research report on COVID-19 in December 2021. The report was
published in January 2023 and is available on the AERO website at:
www.edresearch.edu.au/resources/review-remote-and-online-learning-experiences-during-covid-
19. The purpose of the review was to synthesise existing research into best practice remote and
online education delivery as well as draw on stakeholder experiences prior to, and during, the
COVID-19 pandemic to identify key lessons and inform future remote and online education delivery.
The review found that there were a range of strategies in use during the COVID-19 pandemic. The
effectiveness of these in supporting student outcomes in remote learning is unclear, with some
research suggesting that student outcomes have declined.


School revenue
Between 2019 and 2020 (calendar years) net recurrent income per student increased 3.5 per cent
across all schools. One driver of this change was JobKeeper, which was included in total recurrent
income for schools in 2020 and 2021.


Lessons learned and other observations
Early collaboration between the Australian and state and territory governments to manage the
pandemic in school settings was key to managing the pandemic response, including through
establishing frameworks, facilitating information-sharing, undertaking modelling and research, and
providing financial assistance. This is consistent with preliminary findings from the yet to be finalised
Review of the impact of COVID-19 on school students with disability which suggests ongoing
collaboration between the Australian and state and territory governments will be beneficial to
supporting a consistent approach in the development and implementation of future emergency
responses. The findings of the review are also likely to encourage continued sharing between
governments, education authorities and schools of resources developed during the pandemic.




                                                                                                     | 21
Higher Education and Research

Roles and responsibilities, including governance

Higher Education Funding
The Australian Government has responsibility for higher education funding arrangements. There was
no change to these responsibilities during the pandemic.


Research Block Grants
The Australian Government administers funding to 43 eligible universities to support research and
research training through two research block grant (RBG) programs, the Research Training Program
(RTP) and the Research Support Program (RSP). The legislative basis for these two programs is
provided by the Commonwealth Scholarships Guidelines (Research) 2017 (CSG), and the Other
Grants Guidelines (Research) 2017 (OGGs), respectively. There was no change to these
responsibilities during the pandemic.


Policy changes during the pandemic
Table 3: Summary of supports in the Higher Education and Research sector

 Initiative             Description
 Online short courses   •   In May 2020, the Australian Government provided $7.1 million
                            through the Higher Education Relief Package to 18 non-university
                            higher education providers (NUHEPs) to subsidise the delivery of
                            1,000 online discounted short course places, of around six months in
                            duration.
                        •   Universities also offered short courses managed from within their
                            existing Commonwealth Grant Scheme (CGS) funding allocation.
                        •   A fall in domestic enrolments due to the pandemic would otherwise
                            have led to universities having unused CGS Guarantee funding.
                        •   In total, 55 providers offered around 400 online short courses to help
                            Australians upskill or retrain in fields of national priority through the
                            Higher Education Relief Package.

                                  o   National priority areas were Education, Nursing,
                                      Psychology, English, Mathematical Sciences, Languages,
                                      Agriculture, Allied Health, Other Health, Counselling,
                                      Information Technology, Architecture and Building, Science,
                                      Engineering and Related Technologies, Medical Science,
                                      Environmental Studies.

 The Undergraduate      •   In May 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Skills and
 Certificate                Education Ministers agreed to temporarily include the Undergraduate
                            Certificate (UC) qualification in the Australian Qualifications
                            Framework (AQF) until 31 December 2021. Unlike other AQF
                            qualifications, the UC is a 6-month undergraduate short course which
                            is designed to be stackable.



                                                                                                    | 22
Initiative           Description
                     •   The UC offers learners the flexibility to quickly gain new skills and a
                         recognisable exit point after 6 months, with an option to use what
                         they have learned towards a Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Associate
                         Degree, or Bachelor Degree.

                               o   In late 2021, Skills and Education Ministers agreed to
                                   extend availability of the UC as a qualification until
                                   30 June 2025. Ministers also agreed to review the UC by the
                                   end of 2024 to inform consideration of its ongoing
                                   availability beyond 30 June 2025.

Higher Education     •   The 2020 Higher Education Relief Program Guarantee was
Relief Program           implemented through Chapter 7, Part 5 ('Higher Education Relief
Commonwealth             Program') of the Other Grants Guidelines (Education) 2012.
Grant Scheme (CGS)   •   It applied to Table A and non-Table A higher education providers who
Guarantee                received ongoing CGS funding.
                     •   Specifically, it:

                               o   guaranteed providers' maximum basic grant amount
                                   (MBGA) for non-designated and designated courses of
                                   study, as well as medical student loading, transition fund
                                   loading, and performance-based funding grant amounts
                               o   did not guarantee short courses funding, which was
                                   temporary 'bonus' funding.

Loan Fee Exemption   •   Under normal arrangements, higher education undergraduate
                         students and vocational education and training students who access
                         FEE-HELP at a non-university higher education provider or VET
                         Student Loans (VSL) to defer their tuition fees are subject to a loan fee
                         of 20 per cent. This loan fee is charged to recover part of the implicit
                         subsidy involved in providing these HELP loans.
                     •   In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Australian Government
                         provided an exemption from loan fees to help these students continue
                         their study or engage in new study during the pandemic.

HELP Charging        •   The Australian Government introduced two Higher Education Loan
Measures                 Program (HELP) charges for higher education providers in the 2019-20
                         Federal Budget:

                               o   an application fee for providers seeking approval, and
                               o   annual charge for all higher education providers whose
                                   students are entitled to HECS-HELP or FEE-HELP.
                               o   The annual charge was delayed as a COVID relief measure
                                   from 1 January 2020 until 1 January 2022 with invoicing of
                                   providers to commence in 2023.

Deferral of HELP     •   The Australian Government guaranteed 2020 HELP advance payments
recoveries               to higher education providers based on the estimates provided late in
                         2019.



                                                                                                   | 23
Initiative           Description
                     •   With enrolments expected to fall due to COVID-19, the repayment of
                         any excess advances could be deferred over the period 2022 to 2029.
                     •   This complemented the Australian Government's CGS funding
                         guarantee, giving providers certainty about their teaching and learning
                         resourcing for 2020.

Tuition Protection   •   Payment of Tuition Protection Service levies were deferred for Higher
Services Levies          Education Support Act 2003 (HESA) approved and Tertiary Education
                         Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) Commonwealth Register of
                         Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students (CRICOS) registered
                         providers.

Agreement of         •   An agreement was negotiated by the department with the
International            international education regulators TEQSA, Australian Skills Quality
Education                Authority (ASQA) and the Secretary of the Department of Education,
Regulators and the       Skills and Employment for international students on a student visa to
Secretary of the         be able to study online, not normally allowed under a student visa.
Department of        •   The international education regulators provided guidance to the
Education                sector on how this regulatory flexibility would be applied, and its
                         effect from around March 2020 to 30 June 2023.

Bringing students    •   Significant resources across Australian and state and territory
back to Australia        governments were invested to try and bring cohorts of students back
                         to Australia to resume their studies.
                     •   The Australian Government provided policy leadership through a set
                         of protocols while state and territory governments and universities
                         were responsible for logistics.
                     •   However, access to quarantine facilities was major obstacle and only
                         63 students returned.
                     •   Ultimately, these efforts did offer significant scaffolding strategies and
                         learning opportunities for guiding future returns.

Support for          •   Together with education providers and state and territory
international            governments, the Australian Government provided over $1.5 billion
students                 for a range of measures that targeted the needs of international
                         students while in Australia, including:

                               o   $200 million in funding for 300 charities and community
                                   organisations to help vulnerable members of communities,
                                   including international students
                               o   Affected students could access emergency payments and
                                   access to services and food relief, along with specific
                                   services, including case work support for temporary visa
                                   holders from the Australian Red Cross. The Department of
                                   Social Services had a database of those community
                                   organisations at https://serviceproviders.dss.gov.au
                               o   New and extended temporary work opportunities in critical
                                   sectors to support students experiencing financial hardship
                                   to assist them in gaining employment



                                                                                                 | 24
Initiative             Description
                                 o   Ongoing access to mental health and other welfare and
                                     support services, and
                                 o   A flexible approach in relation to student visa conditions
                                     where COVID-19 and associated travel restrictions have
                                     prevented conditions from being met, such as attendance
                                     at class.

Travel-Ban             •   A travel-ban exemption was developed for Year 11 and 12
Exemption                  international students to allow them to enter Australia in
                           circumstances that satisfied the Australian Border Force
                           Commissioner.
                       •   The department facilitated an application process from states and
                           territories, based on school-level data that captured evidence of
                           COVID status and compliance by the applying students.
                       •   Sign off was needed by state and territory education departments,
                           Chief Health Officers, and the Australian Government Department of
                           Health before the department provided the resulting list of applicants
                           to the Australian Border Force Commissioner.
                       •   This was the largest single program of exemptions from travel bans
                           during border closures.

Waiving regulatory     •   The Australian Government waived regulatory charges for CRICOS-
charges for CRICOS-        registered education providers during the pandemic. 2020 charges
registered education       were refunded, 2021 and 2022 charges were waived.
providers              •   $47.5 million from 1 January 2020 to 30 June 2021; $17.7 million from
                           1 July 2021 to 31 December 2021; $7.1 million in 2022.
                       •   The waiver covered the Annual Registration Charge and Entry to
                           Market Charges and charges from ASQA and TEQSA.
                       •   Savings varied as different ASQA and TEQSA charges were included in
                           different tranches.

Innovation Fund and    •   The Australian Government delivered the $9 million Innovation Fund
the Innovation             2021 to support private English-language course providers and private
Development Fund           higher education providers. Applicants from these groups were each
                           eligible for up to $150,000 in relief funding where they could
                           demonstrate the effect of Australia's border closures where they:

                                 o   received more than 50 per cent of revenue from
                                     international students in 2019, and
                                 o   had international student revenue decline by 30 per cent or
                                     more between 2019 and 2020.

                       •   The Australian Government delivered another $9 million package
                           through the Innovation Development fund 2021-22, and for which
                           private English-language course providers and private higher
                           education providers could apply for funding relief with criteria similar
                           to those under the Innovation Fund 2021, but where international
                           student revenue had declined by 30 per cent or more between 2019
                           and 2021.



                                                                                                  I 25
 Initiative              Description
                         •   Both packages were administered by English Australia and facilitated
                             capacity development and supported a shift in business models to
                             online and offshore delivery.

 Research Block          •   Amendments to the CSG enabled universities to grant extensions to
 Grants                      RTP scholarship periods of support where a student's course of study
                             was being materially adversely impacted by COVID-19 restrictions.
                         •   The Australian Government implemented a number of measures to
                             safeguard the university research sector from the effects of the
                             pandemic, including:

                                    o   Allocation of an additional $1 billion through 2021 RSP
                                        funding to assist universities with immediate financial
                                        pressures and with recovery from the pandemic.
                                    o   Amendments to the OGG to streamline conditions of grant
                                        for the RSP to provide universities autonomy in directing
                                        funding to areas most needed to address the challenges of
                                        the pandemic.
                                    o   Retention of existing RBG funding arrangements designed
                                        to even out volatility in annual allocations that were
                                        introduced in 2017, for an additional 12 months, until the
                                        end of 2021.



Pandemic impacts

Immediate and short-term impacts
The Australian Universities Accord Interim Report (June 2023) notes that the impacts of the
COVID-19 pandemic have increased the pressure on students, academics and professional staff,
disrupted enrolments and revenues; depleted financial resources for providers and for the
Australian and state and territory governments; intensified short-term demand for domestically
produced goods and services in key areas; and forced innovation and adaptation in the delivery of
curriculum, research, services and support.

The pandemic had significant impacts on enrolments at higher education institutions. Due to limited
social and labour market activity, domestic enrolments increased to a record high in 2021 (an
increase of 6.4 per cent from 2019). This trend in enrolments was observed across all equity groups.
Anecdotally, the expansion of online mode of delivery for higher education courses appears to have
increased accessibility for some of these cohorts. Data also shows higher education students were
more likely to study fewer units of study during this time. A trend which has continued into 2022.
This decreasing student load results in slower average course completion rates.

By contrast international student enrolments declined by 25 per cent in 2021 (the peak year of
impact) compared to pre-COVID levels in 2019. This led to significant declines in revenues and
resources, placing greater pressure on services. In April 2020 Universities Australia (UA) initially
estimated that COVID-19 could result in revenue decline of between $3 billion and $4.6 billion and
put more than 21,000 jobs at risk in Australian universities.



                                                                                                   I 26
In June 2020 UA estimated revenue losses from 2020 to 2023 at $16 billion. Other analyses
undertaken at this time estimated possible revenue losses to 2023 of a similar magnitude.

The pandemic also affected university research operations, including disruption to domestic and
international research student enrolments and completions, and restrictions on conducting
research, teaching and learning on campus. The full impact of COVID-19 is emerging as more data is
collected. Higher education staff data for 2021 shows reductions in staff levels for 'research only'
staff were lower than for other job functions in the higher education sector. This appears to reflect
measures taken to protect the research skills pipeline. However, higher education student data
shows that in 2021 commencing enrolments fell in 'higher degree by research' courses whereas
commencements in other postgraduate course types increased.

Data on higher education expenditure and research income demonstrates there has been a decline
in growth. ABS Higher Education Expenditure on Research and Development (HERD) data from the
beginning of the pandemic show expenditure grew slower from 2018 to 2020 (an increase of
$510 million) than from 2016 to 2018 (an increase of $1.28 billion). Data on unspent funding and
expenditure for research block grants shows that universities spent around $750 million of the
Australian Government's 2021 one-off injection of $1 billion provided through the RSP to alleviate
financial pressures due to the pandemic. Research income data from the Higher Education Research
Data Collection demonstrates stability in the ability of universities to conduct research over the
pandemic. Research income grew 10.7 per cent from 2018 to 2020 compared 5.5 per cent for 2020
to 2022. The long-term impact of the pandemic on university research will become clearer when
2022 ABS HERD data is available in 2024.


Ongoing or long-term impacts
Following the opening of Australia's borders in mid-December 2021, international student
enrolments began to recover slowly over the course of 2022, then grew more strongly in 2023. Since
July 2023, year-to-date enrolments have exceeded pre-pandemic levels (in 2019) by 2-3 per cent.

For Higher Education providers, the Australian Universities Accord Interim Report found:

•   The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated the steady expansion of online learning.
•   Many students with disability studied online or through hybrid options during the COVID-19
    pandemic, and participation for this cohort rose over the period, demonstrating the success of
    these models.
•   Student ratings of their study experience have been consistently strong for some time but
    declined sharply during the COVID-19 closures.
•   The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant detrimental impact on the social and cultural life of
    universities.


Lessons learned and other observations
The flexible nature of research funding enabled universities to direct funds to best address the
challenges faced as a result of the pandemic. This ensured the quality of the research training
system and of Australian research was maintained, allowing Australian researchers to play a
significant role in the early response to the pandemic.




                                                                                                    I 27
The department's National Collaborative Research Infrastructure Strategy (NCRIS) provided effective
support in addressing Australia's research-related COVID-19 challenges. The maturity and depth of
expertise in NCRIS was able to swiftly pivot to pandemic priorities, including developing vaccines,
informing our healthcare system response, designing treatments, and manufacturing protective
equipment for frontline health workers.

Other examples of flexible responses within the research system included:

•   The NCRIS-funded Australian Centre for Disease Preparedness at CSIRO entered into a
    partnership with the Norway-based Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) to
    prepare for disease outbreaks.
•   In January 2020, a CEPI-led consortium including CSIRO and the University of Queensland started
    developing and testing potential vaccines, aiming to reduce development time from years to
    weeks. Using the virus strain developed by the Doherty Institute, Australia was the first research
    organisation outside of China to generate sufficient stock of the virus to enable pre-clinical
    studies and research on COVID-19.
•   In early 2023, further CEPI and Queensland Government funding was announced to support
    clinical trials to compare how well the NCRIS-funded Therapeutics Innovation Australia's (TIA)
    molecular clamp vaccine technology works in a COVID-19 vaccine. The clinical batch of this
    vaccine was manufactured at the University of Queensland's National Biologies Facility, as part
    of TIA's capability.




                                                                                                  | 28
