                                                                                     14/12/2023


Re: Inquiry into the Commonwealth Government’s Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic

Submission - by an Australian Citizen.

Firstly, in myopinion, the Inquiry should include the actions taken by the States and Territories
that constitute the Commonwealth of Australia.

The Minutes of the National Cabinet Meetings should be made public. The Governments
assumed enormous powers that were not for public consultation, consideration or discussion.

Apart from an initial two-week halt, borders remained closed, preventing Australians from
returning home or leaving the country altogether: this created hardship for many citizens.

The internal border closures also saw children dying from being prevented from accessing the
required cross-border medical care.

The COVID-19 response saw the denial of informed consent to medical procedure; the loss of
the right to bodily autonomy; the refusal to grant medical exemptions and instead the coercion
of individuals to medical procedure, against the Australian Immunisation Handbook guidelines.
Australians were subjected to coercion, threats and reprisals, while the Federal Government
stood by. Australians were denied the right to medical exemptions to the COVID-19 injections,
while Federal politicians themselves were exempt.

The Federal Minister for Health Hon. Greg Hunt MP stated on ABC Insiders that^^^^^^|


                The mandated COVID-19 injections were therefore experimental: an
emergency approved therapy is still experimental - breaching the Nuremberg Code, mandated
on the Australian public who were coerced into havingthem by threats of job loss and denialof
medical treatment.

The banning of early treatments, (Hydroxychloroquine, Ivermectin) and even regarding
antibiotics such as Azithromycin, Doxycycline and Zinc to treat resulting bacterial infections:
Australians were told to stay at home until they had difficulty in breathing. Doctors were denied
the right to exercise their clinical judgement on an individual patient level. I note that^^f
         purchased stockpile of Hydroxychloroquine was destroyed by the Commonwealth, so
Emergency Use Authorisation / Provisional Approval could be upheld.

AHPRA threatened and harassed medical practitioners from advising their patients on an
individual level and from granting medical exemptions to those with pre-existing medical
conditions for whom the COVID-19 injections were risky. These patients if they chose not to risk
their health under the principle of FIRST DO NO HARM were instead subjected to public and
workplace discrimination, harassment and vilification --this was absolutely unforgiveable. And
now Australians injured by the COVID-19 injections are ignored, in spite of a Vaccine Injury
Compensation Scheme in existence. The Federal Government remains shamefully silent.

The COVID-19 vaccine mandates and lengthy lockdowns caused Australians loss of income,
economic stress, mental health decline and suicides.

I note that Australia’s prior Pandemic Plan was ignored: e.g. quarantine only of sick individuals
forthe purpose of isolation and TREATMENT. In addition, the established principle of Natural
Immunity was completely ignored.

Finally, the former Prime Minister Scott Morrison secretly appointed himself to five different
ministries;

As the Australian taxpaying public paid for ALL of this, we have the right to transparency and
accountability forthe egregious harms done in response.

Thankyou foryourconsideration of this Submission.
