                                                                  14 December 2023




To whom it may concern




Submission re: COVID-19 Response




About Me

I'm a hard-working, born and bred, Australian who's never been on benefits and never been
unemployed a day in my life. I've contributed to the Australian economy in multiple ways and been
paying my taxes since starting work at the age                              that's nearly 40 years of
helping the wheels of commerce and industry turn, in this once great country of ours, my entire
adult life.

I was raised to respect the laws of the land, respect authority and to treat others (no matter how
unpleasant they may be) with courtesy and kindness. The age-old adage 'treat others as you would
wish to be treated' was the motto in my family growing up.

My parents were Salvation Army officers and spent their entire lives in the service of others. I grew
up in a wonderful home surrounded by love for God and love for others and despite being poor, my
parents worked hard to ensure we kids never went without the necessities of life.

The Pandemic Response

Initially, I respected what the Government and Health officials were telling us about COVID-19,
believing that they were genuinely trying to protect us from a deadly virus. I dutifully wore the
masks, socially distanced and took extra precautions with hand washing and personal hygiene.
 h; ’s her it should have ended

Within a couple of months however, it became clear that the measures being imposed on us by
Government were a significant over-reach of authority and completely disproportionate to the
nature of the virus.

After everything I witnessed and was subjected to as a hard-working loyal servant of this country, I'm
sorry to say I no longer hold respect for the Government of the day, or the health officials they
employ.

I am deeply saddened to have witnessed what happened to the rights of everyday Australians as part
of the Government's appalling mis-management of the pandemic, and I no longer trust that the
Government holds our best interests at heart.

In summary, the 3 main points I request to be considered as part of this review are included below.



2./...
1.       Lockdowns of healthy Australians unnecessary, unlawful and damaging
-    The lockdowns were completely unnecessary and did nothing but frighten an already
     nervous population, particularly the elderly and the vulnerable.
-    The lockdowns increased our country's already high rate of mental illnesses. Anxiety,
     depression, loneliness and social isolation went through the roof and suicide rates increased.
-    The lockdowns crippled businesses of all sizes and many small businesses were forced to
     close. The flow on effects continue to this day with many businesses still suffering the
     financial effects. Our economy took a significant hit, and it has still not recovered.
-    The lockdowns were a breach of our human rights. Imposing 'mandates' for perfectly
     healthy individuals to stay in their homes is not only unnecessary, it is unlawful. The
     purpose of a quarantine is to isolate an 'infected' human or animal, as the case may be, to
     prevent the spread of a disease. Imposing mass quarantining of entire communities and
     populations was unnecessary, unlawful and demonstrated a complete lack of regard for our
     human rights as healthy, God-fearing citizens of this country.

2.      Vaccination mandates unnecessary, unlawful and damaging
-    I fundamentally disagree and object to the Government's imposition of vaccination
     mandates on the premise that it will protect us from contracting and /or spreading the virus.
-    The vaccinations did nothing to prevent contraction of the virus or the spread. The medical
     science has proven it - and the evidence is all around us. Every friend, family member and
     colleague I know who is double vaccinated and boosted (some with multiple boosters), have
     had COVID not only once, but multiple times. And in some cases very severe cases with my
     close friend being bed ridden for 10 days with COVID despite having multiple vaccinations.
     Unfortunately, a completely ineffective vaccination is just the beginning.
-    People losing their jobs on the basis of not being vaccinated is an utter disgrace - it was not
     only unnecessary, it was extremely damaging to our economy and to our sectors who
     needed help the most - the medical and aged care sectors, where qualified hard working
     nurses, medical professionals and carers were forced to leave jobs they loved because they
     chose to exercise their medical freedoms and not take the COVID 'vaccine'.
-    It is a fundamental human right to have the freedom to choose, without coercion or fear of
     reprisal, what we do or don't put into our bodies. No one should ever be disciplined or
     threatened with losing their livelihood on medical grounds, when they are still physically and
     mentally competent to perform the functions of the role for which they were hired.
-    The sovereignty of our body is a deeply personal one and protected by national and
     international laws that the Government directions and public health orders blatantly
     disregarded on the false premise of protecting the community.
-    The only person the vaccine purported to protect was the individual, ie. by reducing the
     severity of the symptoms. It therefore follows that the decision to have, or not have, the
     vaccine be a purely personal one. To say, as the media extensively did, that the unvaccinated
     posed a risk to others is not only untrue, it was offensive, divisive and downright un­
     Australian.
-    No Australian should be forced to have an irreversible experimental drug injected into their
     body for fear of losing their jobs based on the erroneous claim that they present a risk to
     others. Every individual, regardless of race, status or creed, has sole decision-making
     authority over their personal health. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
     Nuremberg Code were drafted to protect these human rights. Rights our Government
     completely disregarded and overlooked throughout the pandemic.
    -    I was deeply saddened to witness close friends and family, hard-working public servants and
         loyal employees, subjected to disciplinary action from employers (and many terminations
         and dismissals) based on exercising their medical freedoms and choosing to not take what is
         now proven to be a completely ineffective 'vaccination'.

    3.       Lock-outs of unvaccinated Australians unnecessary, unlawful and divisive
    -    The Government forcing businesses to refuse entry or service to unvaccinated Australians
         was again, an utter disgrace and downright wrong, on many levels.
    -    Our medical status is meant to be a private matter. Expecting businesses to breach that by
         forcing patrons to show their vaccination status is disrespectful, confronting, offensive and
         divisive.
    -    The lock-outs further crippled businesses who were already struggling, with damaging flow
         on effects to the economy. Further, it made unvaccinated Australians feel like second classes
         citizens. It was divisive in the extreme and caused friction amongst families, friends and
         colleagues on a broad scale. Many relationships were damaged as a result and some of
         them irreversibly so.
    -    Being unable to go to the movies, or a nice restaurant, or take the kids to a theme park, yet
         allowing us to go shopping and get take-away from those very same restaurants, was clearly
         nothing more than the Government's 'punishment' for those of us who chose to exercise our
         medical freedoms. It became blatantly obvious throughout the pandemic that not following
         the Government's nonsensical narrative would result in every day Australians having their
         human rights overlooked (indeed trampled on) at every turn.



The above is just a snapshot of the main concerns as I witnessed them throughout the pandemic, but
the damaging effects on our economy, businesses and individuals who lost their jobs are ongoing. It
is my earnest hope and prayer that the Government and health officials will seriously consider the
concerns raised by myself and others and not repeat the dreadful mistakes of the past. Thanking you
in advance.



Yours faithfully,
