My name is Dr Jo Tibbitts. I demand that Australia exits the WORLD HEALTH ORGANISATION now.

I am a Professional Electrical Engineer with a PhD in Speech Signal Processing.

I believe strongly in the Engineers Code of Ethics and in the importance of the true Scientific process
of hypothesis -> Testing -> Results -> Conclusion.

I also believe very strongly in body/mind autonomy and in "My body, my choice".

For a number of years I have distanced myself from the medical profession as I felt 'doctors' were
acting more like drug pushers than healers.

I am vegan and I do bike riding and yoga in my relaxation time.

When the COVID 'vaccines' first came out and politicians started forcing people to get injected with
this experimental drug I was horrified.

I know that even a standard vaccine takes ten or more years to 'get right' yet after three months
politicians were saying that this experimental gene therapy drug/s was 'safe and effective'.

I knew that there was no way that that was true as no long term testing had been done that would
enable them to say that. Then we found out that the 'vaccines' didn't stop you getting COVID;
followed by they didn't stop you passing covid to someone else.

When the politicians/mass media started saying 'it reduces the hospitalisation and death from
COVID'; again I knew that that was a lie as no long term tests had been run to give them the
evidence to be able to say that.

I was acutely aware that my right to choice what goes into my body was in jeopardy when Scomo
and pals stopped Ivan Jocovich playing in the Australian open tennis tournament unless he got
vaccinated and he had natural immunity from getting covid the previous year.

Now I hear that WHO, an unelected body that is funded and controlled by the super rich, is planning
to remove all my rights to decide what drug/vaccine is put into my body.

I reject that proposal completely and ask that Australia and all other nations who value the rights of
their people pull out of this corrupted organisation so it has no power over us everyday people.

The problem with the world at the moment is that greedy, unethical individuals are in charge of
companies and organisations who commit crimes against humanity and decimate our planet's
wildlife/natural systems with no accountability. This has to stop.

People living in the Blue Mountains Villages have supported the labour party for many years. People
here trust you and believe that you have our best interests at heart. We also have believed that you
will fight for us if our freedoms and rights are in jeopardy.

When the COVID fear tactics started, labour was not in power but since you got in power, you have
been following the lead of the LNP and telling us to get vaccinated (with an untested unique gene
therapy drug) and telling us that they were 'safe and effective' when there was no proof of either in
fact now overwhelming evidence that neither is true. However the majority of the people believed
what they were told and blindly did what Gvernment asked of them.

Being a scientist (a real one not a pharmaceutical industry robot) I tried to tell my friends, clients and
acquaintances to be wary; wait until some test results come out before taking this novel untested
chemical. Most of these people said "Labour has our best interests at heart, Susan wouldn't tell us
to take something that might harm us."

At the same time that the COVID19 'vaccines' were rolled out, the TGA released a report on the
Pfizer COVID19 vaccine. I have attached it so you can look at it. I am sure you would never have
recommended anyone taking those novel gene therapy chemicals if you had actually read that
report. This report states clearly that the chemicals are spread through the body especially liver and
ovaries. It also said that as this is a vaccine no tests need to be made on it. This is new technology
that has never been shown to work and has required a redefinition of the word 'vaccine' in order for
it to be termed wrongly as a vaccine. Why is any chemical not put through rigorous testing before
being released. No chemical not even 'vaccines' should be excluded from this process.

Two years on, what has happened to these people. Some (like Cleon, Shawna, Shelley, Petra, and
numerous others including children), who were healthy and in remission from various types of
cancer, died within three months with very aggressive cancers. Some (Ii
    and numerous others), who were also healthy and leading full active lives, were plagued by
neurological conditions that were painful and reduced their physical abilities. Some (lik^^^l
                          numerous others) with physical jobs and active sporting lives, ended up
with debilitating heart conditions that lost them their ability to work and do strenuous exercise.
Some                                                    numerous others) with full lives, ended up with
continual exhaustion and/or respiratory disease. The majority of those souls who trusted in what
you were telling them (Iikept getting covid and other respiratory
illnesses again and again and again even to this day so their immune system are depleted and they
are living a half life. There are hundreds of people in my community who appear to have just
disappeared. In the meantime, those of us who were sceptical of what you were saying (like me,
                                  numerous others) have remained in good physical health. If you are
involved in the community around where you live you must have seen it for yourself.

Article 1 of the Numemburg Code says that 'voluntary consent of the human subject is absolutely
essential' - This means that the person involved should have legal capacity to give consent; should be
so situated as to be able to exercise free power of choice, without the intervention of any element of
force, fraud, deceit, duress, over-reaching, or other ulterior form of constraint or coercion; and
should have sufficient knowledge and comprehension of the elements of the subject matter involved
as to enable him to make an understanding and enlightened decision. This latter element requires
that before the acceptance of an affirmative decision by the experimental subject there should be
made known to him/her the nature, duration, and purpose of the experiment; the method and
means by which it is to be conducted; all inconveniences and hazards reasonably to be expected;
and the effects upon his/her health or person which may possibly come from his participation in the
experiment. The duty and responsibility for ascertaining the quality of the consent rests upon each
individual who initiates, directs or engages in the experiment. It is a personal duty and responsibility
which may not be delegated to another with impunity. You are ignoring this code completely.
