                First Peoples
                Disability Network
                Australia

15 December 2023

Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet - Australian Government

      Re: Inquiry into the Commonwealth Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic

FPDN welcomes this opportunity to make a submission to the inquiry into the Commonwealth Government's

response to the COVID-19 pandemic ('The Inquiry'). This submission provides key points for the Australian

Government to consider when reflecting upon the effectiveness and failures of the pandemic response

towards First Nations people with disability. FPDN also wishes to highlight that much of what is contained in

this response can and should be considered in relation to the Government's preparedness to respond to any

natural disaster or emergency situation in a way that is both effective and culturally inclusive of First Nations

people with disability.

Response to The Inquiry:

FPDN has elected to focus on 'Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular

populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with

disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse

communities)'. In short, it is FPDN's view that, if the Government is to better target the needs of First Nations

persons with disability in the future, a 'top to bottom' change in approach and planning is required. In

targeting one of Australia's most excluded communities, it will improve responses for all.

Collecting disaggregated data:

The existence of accurate data is absolutely fundamental to the creation of an effective response. FPDN is

disappointed that, when recording COVID statistics, the number of individuals with a disability who died as a

result of COVID-19 was not recorded. ABS statistics instead record the number of deaths for individuals with a

'pre-existing condition', which is a far broader category that is not widely useful for assessing the impact of

COVID-19 on disabled persons specifically, yet alone First Nations persons with a disability. FPDN calls on the

Government/ ABS to ensure comprehensive approaches to data collection. For example, the United Kingdom

was able to record COVID-19 deaths by disability status.1

Organisations such as FPDN (and the Government itself) need to be able to access disaggregated data that

pertains specifically to First Nations persons with disability (this is also in line with Closing the Gap National

Agreement Priority Reform 4). This is as true in relation to COVID-19 as it is for any other social, health or

justice issue. The Government should understand it cannot seriously and meaningfully create '[m]echanisms to

better target future responses to the needs of particular populations' if the data that is required in order to

identify those needs simply does not exist in the first place.

Recognising Intersectional Disadvantage:
Any response by the Government which fails to consider the concept of intersectional disadvantage is limited

in its effectiveness. Government should not develop separate plans for First Nations people on one hand and



1 United Kingdom Office for National Statistics, 'Updated estimates of coronavirus (COVID-19) related deaths
by disability status, England Articles', accessed 22 November 2023.
people with disability on the other. For First Nations persons with disability, sources of discrimination and

disadvantage are fundamentally intertwined. Many First Nations persons with a disability are often further

disadvantaged, such as those who live in rural/remote communities with limited access to information,

resources and facilities.

It is also important to bear in mind that a failure to account for the needs of persons with disability will

innately constitute a failure to consider the needs of First Nations people, who are twice as likely to experience

disability than the rest of the Australian population.2 Using the statistical definitions of 'severe and profound

disability' in the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) datasets, including the ABS Survey of Disability, Ageing

and Carers (SDAC), 2018,3 it is estimated that over 60,000 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people live with

severe or profound disability in Australia today.4

To give an example of a specific issue with the Government's COVID-19 response, FPDN was made aware that

COVID-19 immediately placed strain on regional hospitals, which were forced to contend with the possibility of

needing to ration extremely limited amount of beds and ventilators within Intensive Care Units (ICU). During

these early stages of the Government's response, Australia was one of a number of countries with a

reasonably well-developed health care system that considered focusing on practical decision trees or

algorithms for frontline clinicians, as part of developing COVID-19 critical care protocols.5 FPDN does not

intend to recount the whole process, but serious consideration was given towards implementing a process of

critical care triage that, in focusing on algorithms and assumptions about survival rates, would unjustly

discriminate against and de-prioritise the medical treatment of a broad population of people with disability.

It is alarming that such an ableist view of determining who is 'worthy' of treatment was seriously considered at

all, despite the disproportionate effects that would follow, especially for First Nations peoples. In order to

move forward, the Government must recognise that intersecting forms of discrimination can be

(unintentionally) institutionalised and embedded in how policies and programs are designed.

First Nations persons are already at heightened risk of discrimination when attempting to access hospital

services such as via 'diagnostic overshadowing', which is the concept of discriminatory assumptions (e.g.

regarding race) 'overshadowing' the diagnosis and treatment of an underlying disease/condition.6 During a

triage for COVID-19 treatment, First Nations persons with disability are at a heightened risk of 'diagnostic

overshadowing' on account of both their race and disability status. In reality, many other relevant

disadvantages also exist, such as the historically grounded distrust that many First Nations individuals feel

towards accessing and making frank disclosures to medical services. Given the Government's lack of cohesive

planning, it is difficult for FPDN to imagine how a First Nations person with symptoms of COVID-19 and a

significant disability would not have been at high risk of 'falling through the cracks' of the system. To date, no




2 Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) (2016) National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Survey,
(NATSISS) 2014-15 (Release 4714.0).
3 ABS, 'Disability, Ageing and Carers, Australia: Summary of Findings,' 2018, accessed 29 August 2023.
4 S Avery, 'Culture is Inclusion,' 2018, First Peoples Disability Network.
5 J L Scully, 'Disability, Disablism, and COVID-19 Pandemic Triage' 2020.
6 S Avery, 'Culture is Inclusion,' 2018, First Peoples Disability Network.
commitment has been made by the Government to ensure that such individuals will have access to

appropriate interpreters and advocates at the point of triage, especially in remote areas.

Even though Australia did ultimately adopt more of an 'ethics-based' approach to triage guidance, FPDN would

submit that the haphazard response which occurred should have been entirely avoided via the prior existence

of a robust national disaster response plan.

Effective communication and collaboration

FPDN does not believe that the COVID-19 response was satisfactory and no mechanism proposed by the

Government will meaningfully improve the effectiveness of any pandemic response if it is not designed to be

accessible by the target audience. FPDN also suspects that the true extent of poverty affecting First Nations

communities is still not well understood by the Government.

FPDN considers that specialised, local community-managed organisations are best placed to understand and

respond to the specific needs of their communities and encourages a Government response founded upon

such, which would be consistent with the Government's core obligations under the Convention on the Rights

of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), Closing the Gap Agreement and the Disability Sector Strengthening Plan.

To the extent that the Government was capable of rapidly producing and distributing public guidance material

about COVID-19, that material was not necessarily accessible to disabled persons and certainly was not part of

any comprehensive campaign to target First Nations persons. In response, FPDN, without funding, designed

relevant material, which was well received and adopted/distributed by other agencies.

Overall, FPDN's experience is that the Government's responses to communities and individuals needing the

most preventative and ongoing supports, were bureaucratic and slow. At times, FPDN staff purchased food

and disability supplies, and delivered it to community members who could not access or were not familiar with

food banks. Meaningful conversations about the provision of Government support were occurring, but at a

rate which left those communities with a high degree of anxiety, uncertainty, and perceived risk of 'death by

committee'.

Following the outbreak of COVID-19, ACCOs, advocacy groups and other community-run organisations were

effectively forced, in an ad-hoc capacity, into becoming 'accidental emergency workers' for the provision of

food, medication, disability supports and other essentials. Whilst they did provide supplies, information and

support at a rapid pace, this was without the support of governments. FPDN was particularly appalled by

incidents where Aboriginal communities were locked down and prevented from obtaining essential

medications, while others were left without the means to secure clean, uncontaminated drinking water.

Ongoing role of FPDN during The Inquiry:

FPDN wishes to play an ongoing role in providing evidence as a part of The Inquiry. FPDN has been highlighting

numerous areas of concern regarding the COVID-19 response for some time, such as within the 'COVID-19:

Ethical decision-making for First Peoples living with disability' ethics paper that has been attached as 'Annexure

B' and notes the contents of this response only reflect a small portion of the total number of issues and

observations made by FPDN and the communities we represent.




                                                                                                                3
Contact:

Dr Talia Avrahamzon

National Manager Strategic Partnerships, Policy and Impact

First Peoples Disability Network

policy(g)fpdn.org.au



Mr Damian Griffis

Chief Executive Officer

First Peoples Disability Network

CEO@fpdn.org.au




                                                             4
Appendix A


About FPDN

FPDN is the community-controlled disability peak and a member of the Coalition of Peaks, a partner

to all Australian governments to the Closing the Gap National Agreement. We are also the First

Nations Disability Representative Organisation actively representing the voices of First Nations

peoples within Australia's Disability Strategy governance structures. For millennia, First Nations

peoples, communities, and cultures have practiced models of inclusion. However, despite this,

since colonisation, First Peoples with disability and their families have been and continue to be

amongst the most seriously disadvantaged and disempowered members of the Australian

community. FPDN gives voice to their aspirations, needs and concerns and shares their narratives of

lived experience. Our purpose is to promote recognition, respect, protection, and fulfilment of

human rights, secure social justice, and empower First Peoples with disability to participate in

Australian society on an equal basis with others. To do this, we proactively engage with communities

around the country, influence public policy and advocate for the interests of First Peoples with

disability in Australia and internationally.



Our extensive national work includes community engagement, capacity building and rights

education; systemic advocacy, policy, research, evaluation and data; the development and delivery

of evidence-informed training and resources with community for community and to a range of

sectors including the Community Controlled sector and mainstream disability sector,

Commonwealth and state/territory government policy and service delivery agencies and

departments. FPDN also has an international presence and networks, including with the United

Nations, and provides consultancy and support to international regions.


We follow the human rights framework established by the United Nations Convention on the Rights

of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), to which Australia is a signatory, and the United Nations

Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP).


We are also guided by both the social and cultural models of disability. The social model views

'disability' to be the result of barriers to equal participation in the social and physical environment.

These barriers can and must be dismantled. However, FPDN recognises the critical need to move

beyond a social model to ensure the cultural determinants of what keeps First Nations people with

disability strong is centred when working with and in designing policies and programs to improve

outcomes for First Nations people. We call this a cultural model of inclusion.


                                                                                                           5
A cultural model of inclusion recognises the diversity of cultures, languages, knowledge systems and

beliefs of First Nations people and the importance of valuing and enabling participation in society in

ways that are meaningful to First Peoples.7 A First Nations cultural model of inclusion includes the

human rights framework and the social model of disability to ensure that enablers, approaches,

services and supports are culturally safe and inclusive, and disability rights informed. It is the only

disability model that seeks to improve the human condition through focussing on what keeps people

strong, as distinct to merely negating the adverse impact of difference.


Our community has to operate in multiple worlds - First Nations, disability, and mainstream society.

The disability sector reflects this and is a complex and interconnected web of approaches to enable

First Nations people with disabilities to realise their rights to participate in all aspects of their life,

including safe, affordable, accessible and inclusive housing. These enablers, approaches, services and

supports need to exist across the entire life-course, including the Aboriginal and Torres Strait

Islander Community Controlled Sector and mainstream disability sector, as well as mainstream

organisations and services.




The policy context

FPDN recognises the unique opportunity both Closing the Gap and Australia's Disability Strategy to

ensure the legislation, policies, programs and service delivery are accessible, inclusive and equitable

for First Nations people with disability, including during emergency responses such as during Covid

19.



FPDN discussion points are in line with the Closing the Gap National Agreement Priority Reforms and

the Disability Sector Strengthening Plan and its Guiding Principles. The Priority Reforms focus on

changing the way governments work with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and the

Disability Sector Strengthening Plan outlines high-level priorities and actions at a national level to

strengthen and build a Community Controlled Disability Sector. The Commonwealth government,

all State and Territory Governments and the Local Government Authority are signatories and

partners to the National Agreement and also the Disability Sector Strengthening Plan. The Priority

Reforms are:


1. Formal partnerships and shared decision-making




7 S Avery, 'Culture is Inclusion,' 2018, First Peoples Disability Network.

                                                                                                              6
2. Building the community-controlled sector

3. Transforming government organisations

4. Shared access to data and information at a regional level



Applying the Closing the Gap approach to disability as a cross-cutting outcome through the Priority

Reforms offer structure to government to ensure First Nations peoples with disability have:

    •         A greater say in how policies and programs are designed and delivered;

    •    Have access to community-controlled services and sectors that delivers culturally safe,

         accessible and inclusive, and disability right informed services;

    •    Have access to mainstream organisations and services, such as NDIS services, hospitals,

         schools and government agencies, that are culturally safe, accessible and inclusive, and

         disability right informed;

    •    And have access to, and the capability to use, locally-relevant, First Nations disability

         informed, data and information.

Such an approach would enhance any disaster response.



First Nations people with disability

For millennia, First Nations peoples, communities, and cultures have practiced models of inclusion.

This embracing of diversity and inclusion "is derived from a belief system and worldview of humanity

in which biological, physical and intellectual differences are accepted as part of the fabric of

society."8 Drawing on nation-wide available data, First Nations people with disability are included in

their own communities across social, cultural and community events on average more than other

Australians with disability.


However, despite this strength, since colonisation First Nations people with disability experience

significant levels of inequality across all other life areas compared to other Australians, including in

areas of health, education and social inequality.9 Whilst population prevalence data is limited, First

Nations people are twice as likely to experience disability than the rest of the Australian

population.10 Using the statistical definitions of 'severe and profound disability' in the Australian

Bureau of Statistics (ABS) datasets, including the ABS Survey of Disability, Ageing and Carers (SDAC),



8 S Avery, 'Culture is Inclusion,' 2018, First Peoples Disability Network.
9 S Avery, 'Culture is Inclusion,' 2018, First Peoples Disability Network: Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS)
(2016) National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Survey, (NATSISS) 2014-15 (Release 4714.0).
10 Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) (2016) National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Survey,
.(NATSISS) 2014-15 (Release 4714.0).

                                                                                                                   7
2018,11 it is estimated that over 60,000 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people live with severe

or profound disability in Australia today.12


First Nations people with disability experience many intersectional forms of discrimination, including

discrimination based on age, gender, sexuality and geographic location. These intersecting forms of

discrimination are institutionalised and embedded in how policies and programs have been

designed, including disaster responses, such as during Covid 19.



Consistent with the social and cultural models of disability within which FPDN works, we recognise

that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are disproportionally affected by poor outcomes.

This impact is widespread and has social, emotional, physical, economic and cultural impacts.



First Nations Disability Data Gap

As noted in the Disability Sector Strengthening Plan, First Nations people with disability sit on the

periphery of both national disability policies, frameworks, data infrastructure or research agendas. In

effect, this means data about and evidence by First Nations people with disability are often not

captured in its own right. This has key implications for how data and evidence is captured in relation

to First Nations people with disability and their unique experiences of interaction with the service

systems and all other aspects of life, including what living well looks like for a First Nation person

with disability. Existing data and research is often limited in scope, and often does not provide

sufficient focus to all experiences of disability in regional, remote or urban contexts. FPDN is in the

process of developing a broad First Nations disability data strategy, however, there is a need for

dedicated First Nations Disability data project with specific intersectional data that would continue

to support targeted action and monitoring of the impact of disaster responses to our community.




11 ABS, 'Disability, Ageing and Carers, Australia: Summary of Findings,' 2018, accessed 29 August 2023.
12 S Avery, 'Culture is Inclusion,' 2018, First Peoples Disability Network.

                                                                                                          8
Appendix B


First Peoples Disability Network Australia, 'COVID-19: Ethical decision-making for First Peoples living

with disability'.




                                                                                                      9
                                    FPD.9999.0001.0027




                          First Peoples
                          Disability Network
                          Australia




1*1 ■*   '




  COVID-19: ■




                •*•**?!




                               fpdn.org.au
                                                                                                                          FPD.9999.0001.0028




   COVID-19: ETHICAL DECISION-MAKING FOR FIRST PEOPLES LIVING WITH DISABILITY



   The COVID-19 pandemic raises significant issues of disability and racial inequality in health­
   care delivery. The primary risk of the pandemic to people with a disability is that healthcare
   resources (such as intensive care) may not be provided to them in times of scarcity1. The pan­
   demic is also highlighting some of the serious structural problems that health systems experi­
   ence when providing care to people from different racial backgrounds. For example, we have
   noted with concern the disproportionate impact that COVID-1 9 is having on people of colour
   in the United States.2

   The combination of these discriminatory forces poses an enormous threat to the First Peo­
   ples of Australia living with disability. First Peoples with a disability experience intersectional
   discrimination through health and social welfare systems that struggle to provide reasonable
   accommodation for disability, and from the history of political and institutional racism that has
   harmed Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples since 1788. During this pandemic it is
   essential that decision-makers listen to and understand the unique voices of First Peoples with
   disability so that their experiences can be incorporated into planned responses.

   Recently the Federal government released its Australian Health Sector Emergency Response
   Plan for the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) ("The Plan"). The Plan lays out a framework for
   management of resources during the pandemic with the express recognition that care should
   be provided in an 'equitable' manner. The Plan emphasises the special needs, cultural values
   and the religious beliefs of different members of the community, with a special recognition of
   the cultural and linguistic diversity of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. The Plan
   also highlights the need for effective communication with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
   peoples. We also note the Federal government's Management Plan for Aboriginal and Torres
   Strait Islander Populations3 which repeats the principles of shared decision-making between
   Government and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, and the need for appropriately
   informed and culturally safe care (but which fails to discuss disability in Aboriginal and Torres
   Strait Islander populations at all).

   The principles of equity, recognition and cultural competence accord with the government's
   human rights obligations under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and
   the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The challenge is how to give effect to
   these ideals in decision-making during the pandemic. The First Peoples Disability Network
   believes that the following are necessary steps towards achieving the kind of equity, shared
   decision-making and culturally safe care:




    1 Robin Banks, Andrew Byrnes, Kevin Cocks, Megan Davis, Graeme Innes, Rosemary Kayess, Ron McCallum, Jackie Leach
    Scully, Statement of Concern - COVID-19: Human rights, disability and ethical decision-making 16 April 2020.
    2 Jamelle Bouie, ‘Why Coronavirus Is Killing African-Americans More Than Others’ New York Times 14 April 2020.
    3 Management Plan for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Populations https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/man-
    agement-plan-for-aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-populations.


First Peoples Disability Network Australia - COVID-19: Ethical decision-making for First Peoples Living with Disability
                                                                                                                          FPD.9999.0001.0029




 1. Recognise                     The first step must be to recognise the reality of disability for First Peoples in
 the reality of                   Australia. They experience a disproportionately high percentage of disability
                                  within their populations.4 Any resource allocation decision that emphasises
 disability for                   disability as a criterion for exclusion from care will automatically discriminate
 First Peoples                    disproportionately against Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples. All
                                  Federal, State and Territory government agencies must remove disability from
                                  consideration of resource allocation when it is used as a broad criterion for
                                  exclusion from critical care.




 2. Listen and                       If healthcare is going to be effectively provided to First Peoples during the
 understand                          pandemic, the healthcare sector needs to listen and understand the specific
                                     problems of delivery that are experienced by First Peoples with a disability.
 the problems                        Many First Peoples live in remote communities here, healthcare delivery is
 of delivery of                      incredibly challenging, especially to those with a disability. Care is often
 healthcare to                       provided by family members rather that healthcare professionals and the
                                     bulk of family care is disproportionately provided by women, who may
 First Peoples
                                     themselves be facing significant health challenges. Any decisions made
 with disability                     about healthcare for First Peoples during the pandemic must include First
                                     Peoples themselves for the healthcare to be effective. State and Federal
                                     health authorities must commit to including First Peoples with a disability in
                                     planning for decision-making regarding healthcare during the pandemic.




 3.                                The pandemic is creating newproblemsforthe healthcare system - but it is also
                                   exposing the old problems of discrimination that lie at the roots of Australian
 Acknowledge                       healthcare. The relationships between communities of First Peoples and the
 the history                       healthcare sector have not always been happy ones. In places where the
 of the                            relationship is strained, it is important for the healthcare sector to reach out
                                   and try to build confidence and trust. During this pandemic all Australians
 relationships
                                   are been called upon for compliance, but that compliance draws on wells of
 between the                       trust. In some places, this trust remains to be built with First Peoples. State
 health sector                     and Federal health authorities must commit to identifying areas of strain and
 and First                         work to re-establish strong relationships of trust and confidence with the First
                                   Peoples affected. In cases where that cannot be implemented, arrangements
 Peoples with                      should be made to give access to alternative healthcare resources.
 disability




    4 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Social and Economic Wellbeing ofAboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People with a Disability
    https://www.abs.g;ov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/by%20Subiect/4714.0~2014-15~Feature%20Article~Social%20and%20eco-
    nomic%20wellbeing%20of%20Aboriginal%20and%20Torres%20Strait%20Islander%20people%20with%20disability%20(Fea-
    ture%20Article) ~ 10001


                                                                                                                                        3
First Peoples Disability Network Australia - COVID-19: Ethical decision-making for First Peoples Living with Disability
                                                                                                                          FPD.9999.0001.0030




 4.                               Healthcare for First Peoples may be complicated by their Laws, which have
 Accommodate                      created a rich tapestry of rules around information provision, touching and
                                  care. Effective healthcare must be based on an effective understanding of
 the Laws                         the cultural diversity of the Laws and accommodate them within delivery.
                                  State and Territory policies on pandemic healthcare must expressly refer to
                                  the need to be culturally competent when providing services to First Peoples
                                  with a disability.




 5. Grow                             Even in the absence of a pandemic, healthcare providers in all States and
                                     Territories should be employing appropriately trained and registered
 the cultural
                                     Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Healthcare Workers. This nationally
 capacity of                         registered health profession specialises in providing a culturally safe
 the healthcare                      workplace, free from racism so that First Peoples can enjoy a healthy life
 sector                              is enriched by a strong living culture, dignity and justice. At present there
                                     are only 750 registered professionals, and more are desperately needed.
                                     The State and Territory governments must look at how more students can
                                     be transitioned into the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Healthcare
                                     workforce.




 6. Value                          The Elders of First Peoples' communities hold a revered place as the
                                   custodians of language, Law and culture. Their knowledge must survive for it
 cultural worth                    to be passed on to future generations. It is widely understood that COVID-19
 held by Elders                    is particularly aggressive in older people, who face a much higher risk of death
 of the First                      as a result. Widespread infection of Elders with COVID-19 may threaten the
                                   very cultural existence of First Peoples. State and Territory governments must
 Peoples of
                                   understand this existential threat and take whatever action is necessary to
 Australia                         protect Elders as the guardians of First Peoples' cultures.




 The pandemic is a test for all Australians. Part of that test will be how, in the toughest of times, the
 healthcare system treated First Peoples with a disability. The four points of action we have outlined
 put First Peoples with a disability in a position where they can speak to decision-makers and help
 them provide appropriate responses to the pandemic. First Peoples with disability speak with unique
 voices that convey powerful messages. Now is the time for those voices to be heard and for the
 messages to be acted upon.




                                                                                                                                   4
First Peoples Disability Network Australia - COVID-19: Ethical decision-making for First Peoples Living with Disability
