            Submission to the Australian Commonwealth Government
                            Covid-19 Response Inquiry

                                     from Elizabeth Hart
                  independent researcher investigating the vaccine industry
                        and conflicts of interest in vaccination policy



The Commonwealth Government's response to Covid-19 is grossly disproportionate and ill-targeted.

In this response I focus on the taxpayer-funded mass population Covid-19 vaccination rollout.

According to the Australian Government's current statistics 69.3 million Covid-19 vaccinations have
been administered in Australia, across a population of around 26 million, including children.

This mass population medical intervention has been undertaken against a disease it was known
from the beginning wasn't a serious threat to most people, even the highly conflicted WHO admits
this for those who can read between the lines.

In my opinion, there is no valid consent for any of these 69.3 million Covid-19 vaccinations/medical
interventions administered in Australia.

The medical 'profession' has largely supported coercive and mandated medical interventions...in a
supposed free country!

I've sent many emails pleading for voluntary informed consent to be upheld, see links on this
webpage: https://vaccinationispolitical.net/vax-australia/

The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, the Royal Australasian College of Physicians,
and the Australian Medical Association have all collaborated with coercive/mandated Covid-19
vaccination.

After much persistence on my part, the regulator of practitioners, AHPRA, finally sent me         r in
September 2021, confirming that:

        "Practitioners have an obligation to obtain informed consent for treatment, including
        vaccination. Informed consent is a person's voluntary decision about health care that is
        made with knowledge and understanding of the benefits and risks involved." (My
        emphasis.)

Also in September 2021 ther     ctorian P   tk   Dani     dr     an    jt


        "There is going to be a vaccinated economy, and you get to participate in that if you are
        vaccinated...We're going to move to a situation where, to protect the health system, we
        are going to lock out people who are not vaccinated and can be".

In November 2021, Chris Perry, the Queensland President of the Australian Medical Association,
said:
        "If you're not vaccinated, it's going to be very, very hard to maintain a job, to be able to go
        anywhere. People having weddings are going to have to weed out the unvaccinated. The
        pubs and clubs are going to have to find out whether people are vaccinated before they
        allow them in. Otherwise their businesses will go bankrupt."

And in January 2022 then Western Australian Premier, Mark McGowan ;aid:

        "Life will be very difficult for the unvaccinated from January 31. N pub, no bottle shop, no
        gym, no yoga class, no gig, no danceflcors, no hospital visits."

There it was, all laid out by members of the National Cabinet and the Australian Medical
Association - 'No Jab, N . Life'.

Where was the outcry? From AHPRA for instance? Why didn't AHPRA jump up and down and say
registered practitioners must not collaborate with coercive/mandated vaccination, this violates
voluntary informed consent? Not a peep out of AHPRA... Or the medical colleges.

AHPRA had already effectively mandated practitioners to support the government's Covid-19
vaccination rollout via the AHPRA Position Statement 9 March 2021, which I challenge in my email
to AHPRA CEO                     an                Chair of the Medical Board of Australia, and
others, see: Reckless disregard for voluntary informed consent - the AHPRA Position Statement 9
March 2021.

I also raised this matter with Attorney-General                 questioning if health practitioners are
in effect being conscripted to participate in the Australian Government's Covid-19 vaccination
rollout, in contravention of the Australian Constitution, i.e. paragraph xxiiiA of s51 see my email:
Are health practitioners in effect being conscripted to participate in the Australian government's
Covid-19 vaccination rollout, in contravention of the Australian Constitution?

Australia's Chief Medical Officer,and the AHPPC, broke the ethical principle of voluntary
informed consent for vaccination in June 2021, when they capitulated to the demand of then Prime
Minister Scott Morrison and the Premiers and Chief Ministers in the National Cabinet to
'recommend' compulsory vaccination for residential aged care workers. This set the precedent for
a flood of vaccination mandates around the country. See my notification to AHPRA about CMO Paul
Kelly violating voluntary informed consent for more background.

This is the biggest scandal of all time. The entire country was pressured, coerced and manipulated
to submit to the Covid-19 injections at the behest of politicians, 'medical/health' officers, the
medical 'profession', academics, and the mainstream media.

Probably millions have submitted to the jabs under MANDATES to maintain their livelihoods and
participate in civil society - 'No Jab, No Job'...'No Jab, No Life'...NO VALID CONSENT

The judicial system has supported these mandated medical interventions, apparently unaware of
practitioners' legal and ethical obligation to obtain valid voluntary informed consent for
vaccination.

And the practitioners do not have specific medical indemnity for administering the Covid jabs
They might think they do, but they don't, because the Morrison Government lied to them about
this around the time of tl               blood clots emerging in 2021.
Meanwhile, in November 2022, the Department of Health and Aged Care also confirmed to me

        "Informed consent should be obtained for every COVID-19 vaccination, as per usual
        consent procedures for other vaccinations."

Who knew?!

Apparently not the practitioners who have administered the 69.3 million jabs across a population
that has been subjected to coercion and vaccination mandates.

There is no objective and independent mainstream media to break the story. And the taxpayer-
funded ABC, chaired by Scott Morrison's 'captain's pick'^^^^^^f, and SBS, have been worse than
useless, performing as a propaganda machine for the vaccine industry.

There's been no critical analysis of the Covid debacle which has stolen the Australian people's
freedom, looted them, and put them into enormous debt...enriching who exactly via this
manufactured phony crisis?

This isn't just about Covid-19 vaccination, the entire ever-increasing taxpayer-funded vaccination
schedule must be investigated, the lucrative 'womb to tomb' schedule that is mired in conflicts of
interest, with little or no transparency and accountability.

With the destruction that has been wrought upon freedom in this country, ethical practitioners
should stride into AHPRA's offices and protest on the steps of the parliaments. Because the
medical 'profession' is in ruins with its failure to uphold VOLUNTARY INFORMED CONSENT FOR
VACCINATION.

And all thanks to the Commonwealth Government's taxpayer-funded Covid-19 vaccination rollout,
that former Prime Minister Scott Morrison wanted to be "as mandatory as you can possibly make
it"

Elizabeth Hart
Independent researcher investigating the vaccine industry and conflicts of interest in vaccination
policy
15 December 2023

Website: vaccinationispolitical.net
Substack: Vaccination is political
