SUBMISSIONS FOR COVID 19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

I support and demand a full Royal Commission investigation into the Federal Government's dysfunctional and
unlawful handling during and after the COVID 19 pandemic. This current inquiry is clearly a whitewash, the
community is not happy and is demanding answers that only a Royal Commission can deliver into the
malfeasance, negligence and possible breaches of statutory and international laws committed by the Federal
Government.

 Terms of reference

l.Corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts- Key health response measures: (the gene-vaccines and
treatment and public health messaging)

    •   Full disclosure surrounding the origin and nature of contracts stemming from the Federal Government
        with C-19 Vaccine pharmaceutical corporations. International policies to support Australians at home
        and abroad, and dubious securing of vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic use
        in Australia.
    •   Stakeholders, COVID Taskforce entities and conflict of interest declarations through FOI and
        investigations, Lightening speed of rollouts for provisionally registered gene therapy product and
        disregard for standard practices of vaccine safety trials (several years). Lately, the death of one dog
        due to dodgy vaccination has prompted recall of canine vaccinations lobbied by veterinarians, yet TGA
        continued to deny excess death causations through gene therapy vaccinations when deaths are
        through the roof?
    •   Investigation of manufacturer terms and Conditions of the Covid 19 Vaccines/gene therapies no
        warranty, exempt from consumer protection laws, - the manufacturer accepts no responsibility should
        the product be faulty or liability. The Australian government used $ 8 billion tax payer monies the big
        Pharma for such poorly tested gene vaccines. Please explain.

    •        Apparent conflict of Interest demands a Royal Commission- See below:

        1.             Jane Halton Review needs to be reopened
              The chair of CEPI (that directed mRNA plus 100-day vaccines sponsored by Gates foundation),
              Jane Halton review, highlights the inept Federal procurement deal pointing to conflicts of interest.
              (See FOI-Review of COVID-19 Vaccine and Treatment Purchasing and Procurement as quoted
              "Consideration should be given to permanent implementation of changes made during the
              pandemic which ease regulatory burden and do not impact public safety,". Halton also
              commented 'These changes made to speed drugs to market during the covid panic should be
              made permanent policy, Halton quoted in the review, released under FOI. The speed of the
              rollout and the gregarious campaigning was above public safety, this is gross malfeasance by our
              so-called health 'regulators'.
        2.             Monetary conflicts Re: TGA
         (re: Hansard: -Page 7, Senate Education and Employment Legislation Committee- Parliament of
        Australia - Senate August 3, 2023):^^^^^^^H'Our therapeutic goods association derives
        something in the order of 96 per cent of its budget from industry fees. What amount of fundin^loes
        Pfizer provide to therapeutic goods association per annum?' This was taken on notice
    •   Full disclosure of contacts, agreements and reimbursements payment per vaccination dose, payment
        for hospitals with Covid 19 patients receiving ventilators and payment per 'certified' COVID 19 deaths.
        All nefarious federal government Covid 19 vaccination partnerships to be investigated with the
        prospect of prosecution pending
    •   Testimonials- (sworn under oath) from funeral directors and coronial examiners, Hospital CEO's and
        administrators to substantiate causes of death by vaccination and not the COVID 19 virus or poor
        medical protocols( which includes suppression of effective antivirals such as Ivermectin) but instead
        relying on substandard practices/protocols using Remdesivir combined with ventilators to produce
        tragic outcomes for patients.
 2. Vaccine mandates, masks and coercion

Unlawful issue of mandates - unlawful dismissal and psychological harm; coercion to vaccinate in the FEDERAL
government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation COVID-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of
Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill
2023allowed the federal government to coerce vaccination while denying it was mandated. Victimisation,
coercion and bullying was applied by proxy by the states under Federal Immunisation regulations, the
government of the day have broken the law. While I sought valid consent through Risk Assessments, I was
coerced and finally terminated for noncompliance of the Covid 19 bioweapon.

Federal government under the guise of the National Cabinet enable de-facto outsourcing to the States and
corporates to dismiss Australians for noncompliance to the jab absolving any responsibility of harm/damage to
individuals.

****The federal government has broken the law according to their own Immunisation Handbook's ctieria. This
invokes UN Charters and Nuremberg Code for crimes against humanity. The Federal government by issuing
State responsibility is guilty of unlawfulness and denial of valid consent.

Criteria for valid consent is clearly stated in the Immunisation handbook

For consent to be legally valid, the following elements must be present

It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation.

It can only be given after the potential risks and benefits of the relevant vaccine, the risks of not having it, and any
alternative options have been explained to the person.

The person must have the opportunity to seek more details or explanations about the vaccine or its administration.

I personally sought further details through risk assessments, denied and terminated from permanent
employment. I now suffer psychological damages.

Mask mandates-false information based on poor science orthodoxy, suppression of mask deficiencies and
dangers of prolonged mask usage need to be examined in the Commission.

• Inhumane quarantining of humans -Quarantine - "isolating an infected human, animal or object, to prevent
the spread of a disease." This was a blatant human right which demands punishment.

3. Official misinformation /media censorship

Exclusion of debate and discussion:

The Senate Committee Education and Employment Committee August 3, 2023, has identified the lack of
information that existed between the government and the TGA surrounding the COVID 19 trial drug
'campaign' whilst blindly supporting pharmaceutical industry claims of prevention of transmission and
overlooking safety protocols not privy to the public- (refer to Hansard- Senate Education and Employment
Legislation Committee- Parliament of Australia - Senate August 3, 2023):                      ....... 'According to
the Pfizer non-clinical report, there were no carcinogenic tests, no genotoxicity tests, no immune toxicity tests,
no interaction studies with other medicines and no longitudinal studies. I note that in regard to pregnancy and
lactation, studies were conducted on rats. How can Pfizer say that the vaccine was unequivocally safe without
qualifying any risks around the vaccine?'

  •    The media accepted the given truths by the TGA and disseminate this information to the public as
       aggressive campaigners.
  •    Deliberate censorship by Federal Government agencies to supress information around lawful protests
       and its collaboration with Facebook, blatant abuse of freedom of speech rights (see Doc: FOI- Fed Gov
       collusion with Facebook
      https:// (https://t.co/fsFeX97tp7)health.gov.au/sites/defauIt/ (https://t.co/fsFeX97tp7)files/2023-
      07/foi_4293_-_internal_review_-
      _facebook_posts_and_tweets_categorised_as_misleading_information_-_part_2.pdf
      (https://t.co/fsFeX97tp7)
 •    Deliberate attempts to skew and corrupt the information regarding Long Covid and Vaccine adverse
      effects continues through mainstream media, health agencies and corporate messaging.

4 .Falsehoods in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission

Government collusion with media stakeholders to actively CAMPAIGN for Covid 19 vaccinations while ignoring
prominent scientific researchers, medical professionals voices regarding transmission, safety and efficacy were
suppressed was essential for the Government to garner public confidence in the safety of the and drive-up
vaccination rates to fulfil contractual obligations to big pharma and ^^^^|entitles (The Albanese
Government still to this day are consulting with this entity to waste Taxpayer monies on false Green Agenda
programs)

Government and media collusion to defame Australians who opposed the gene-based vaccines as 'antivaxxers'
were ridiculed, shamed and eventually alienated from participating in society warrants a Royal Commission.

5 . Vaccine injuries and excess deaths supressed

• Suppression and under-reporting of DAEN- Australia and now emerging evidence from NZ Whistleblower
New Zealand with world- wide coverage concerning the Covid 19 vaccine batch related excess deaths to be
investigated promptly.

 -    The TGA cannot accurately account for 'excess deaths', but continues to bury the information of real
      numbers of injured and deceased via Covid 19 bioweapon injections See                   Senate
      estimates and from The TGA has no idea how many people have been killed by the covid gene-vaccines-
      Alison Bevegae Letters from Australia Nov 30 2023)
 -    'Drug regulator the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) continues to claim that only 14 deaths out
      of 1004 reports are "linked to" the products in its latest safety report for November.'

-   The Australian Medical Professional's Society (AMPS) said excess deaths have surged at rates up to 17 percent
above baseline average since the products were first distributed, prompting them to hold an inquiry in
Canberra on October 18.

Instigate Royal Commission now.

6.Silencing of doctors/, the role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors

AHPRA- technocratic corporation illegally enforcing silence and obeyance leading to unethical practices of
dismissal and deregistration is a blatant Human Rights crime.

7 .The poor treatment of victims and Vaccine injuries

Civil and criminal proceedings to compensate all victims injured physically, psychological and financially either
through the vaccine, mandates or lockups.

8 . The illegal and unconstitutional role of the 'National Cabinet'

The role of the corporate Federal Gov and unconstitutional practice of National Cabinet under Morrison
Government and its misuse of leadership and dissemination of power constitute treason and constitutional
anomalies of Federalism against the Australian public.

C: Recommendations

         Full independent Royal Commission to be honoured, rather than handpicked governmental
         epidemiologists or salaried 'big pharma 'talking heads' on the committee.
    •   Release all Data on excess deaths -see Senate Estimates and latest NZ data to highlight crimes against
        humanity and Australia's puppet dealings with the WHO/WEF.
    •   Criminal prosecutions to commence post Commission: Australian Government Inc liable for crimes
        against Australians must invoke Nuremberg Code for all malfeasance during COVID 19 pandemic and
        abuse/ abrogation of Human Rights Articles.
    •   Commission to investigate the role of: AHPRA and its mishandling. Its limited powers as a registered
        corporation not a medical entity.
    •   All mainstream media to be investigated in their collusion with the Federal Government to actively
        campaign and deceive the public surrounding COVID 19 vaccine gene therapies as being 'safe and
        effective'. Media 'campaigners' tried for crimes against humanity for spreading falsehoods

Yours sincerely,

Anon

Isaiah 54:17, "No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper"
