I have been adversely affected by the Commonwealth Government's appalling handling of
COVID.


Some of the issues that have impacted me and fellow Australian's include:


1 .Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts (this needs to be investigated). The
government wasted hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines, over half of which were
thrown away. Australia's total population is just over 26 million and the Australian
government purchased roughly 255 million doses, which is enough for every Australian to
be injected ten times. The maximum dosage authorised in Australia is 5. the Federal
Government has spent at least $18 billion on Covid vaccines and treatments, which is $1200
transferred from the pocket of every tax-paying Australian (assuming there are 15 million
taxpayers which is based on recent statistics) and this money went straight to big
pharmaceutical companies.

2 .Mandates (which are within the Commonwealth terms of reference as (1) the
Commonwealth mandated jabs for aged care. (2) the Commonwealth enabled jab
mandates with their data sharing arrangements with the states and vaccination databases,
and (3) the Commonwealth failed to act to protect Australians human rights from the States
and private businesses abuse and coercion. Basically the federal government the FEDERAL
government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation to protect Australians from
the states.


3 . Vaccine injuries (there has been a denial of vaccines injuries from the government and
gaslighting of vaccine injured people. The Commonwealth governments treatment of the
Covid vaccine injured has been shameful and most vaccine injured people cannot even get
basic compensation from the extremely narrow Federal scheme.

4 .Mask mandates and lockdowns

5 .Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block
infection and transmission. The government later stated the Covid injections never stopped
the transmission or infection from Covid)

6 . National border closures


7 . The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the
vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession. Also the
Therapeutic Goods Administration has demonstrated serious regulatory failures, including
hiding reported child deaths (this was found from a freedom of information request from
                        she obtained: https://news.rebekahbarnett.com.au/pZbreaking-
australias-drug-regulator so as to influence public opinion on the vaccination program.


It also needs to be investigated why former Prime Minister Scott Morrison secretly
appointed himself to five different ministries and why he tried to keep the minutes of the
national cabinet meetings top secret.

Australians urgently need a full Royal Commission and proper investigation into these issues
and not the pointless enquiry that is currently being held.




Yours sincerely




Angela Waller
