I am a Victorian woman who has worked extensively in community engagement and development.
At the time of the pandemic I was managing a neighbourhood house community centre.

I would like to respond to several of the areas from the Inquiry's terms of reference: Key health
response measures (and public health messaging), community support and broader health
supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns). I am also concerned that actions
taken unilaterally by state and territory governments are not in scope for the Inquiry. A further full
enquiry is required to examine all governmental responses.

In regard to community support, one of the key tenets of neighbourhood houses is inclusiveness
and that is what I advocated for when it became known that the Covid-19 vaccination would not
stop transmission.       There is no logical or moral basis for vaccine mandates or excluding
participation from employment or community activities for a vaccine that doesn't stop transmission
and where vaccinated individuals can transmit the disease. I believe that mandatory vaccination
and exclusion of unvaccinated people also contradicted a number of the rights contained in the
Victorian Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities, including the right to freedom of thought,
the right to equality, the right not to be subjected to medical or scientific treatment without full, free
and informed consent and sadly, I believe, based on the fact that Covid vaccine deaths have
occurred in Australia, for some it was the right to life.

In regard to public health messaging, as pandemics are evolving situations, it is important that
observational data is closely examined. The medical profession must have freedom of speech to
publicly report their observations, even when it contradicts what is expected or public health
messaging.

In regard to public health messaging,     don't believe the message 'safe and effective' was
appropriate to the Covid-19 vaccine as even the vaccine information sheet for AstraZeneca says:



The Therapeutic Goods Administration states that 'the benefits and the risks of a medicine to an
individual need to be considered, along with the risks involved if no treatment occurs. The decision
to use a particular medicine should be made between the patient and the patient's health
professional, and should entail informed consent.' (https://www.tga.qov.au/tga-safety-monitorinq-
medicines#steps) The vaccine mandates and the non-publishing of any information that ran
counter to 'safe and effective' public health messaging, clearly contradicted this principle.

I am also concerned that messaging changed from 'those vulnerable need to take precautions' to
mandating the 'safe and effective' vaccine for a broad cross section of the community. This is not
logical if the vaccine does not prevent transmission.


What I personally observed was more vaccine injury than I should have statistically. One family
member had a carotid artery dissection and another had leg paralysis. There were also numerous
personal accounts from people I knew about arterial bleeding, decline in general health in an aged
care facility and hospitalisations after vaccination.

In regard to community support, the mental health impacts of lockdowns need to be considered.
There are serious health risks, both physical and mental from lockdowns. My partner was suicidal
during that time and I know he was not alone in that. A thorough assessment of all mental and
physical health impacts that occurred due to the lockdowns should be conducted and that data
used in any future consideration of appropriate health responses.
