                                                                                            14/12/2023



To Whom It May Concern,

I am a working mother in regional Australia who has been injured by the COVID vaccination I was
mandated to have by the state government to continue my employment. I am currently on medical
leave as work aggravates the chronic pericarditis and long Vax that I suffer from post vaccination. My
immediate family has also suffered and continues to also suffer as a consequence of my adverse
reaction. I am employed bythat has subsequently been negatively affected by this
as well. There are several concerns with regard to government policy, legislation, behaviour,
censorship, reporting, responsibility and follow up regarding COVID-19 that have not been
adequately addressed. This has led to subsequent mistrust in the government, but also the health
system and health professionals.

I woke 10 hours following my vaccination with crushing chest pain and a severe headache, 6 hours
later my menstrual cycle started 12 days early lasting 9 days. This dysregulated cycle continues 23
months later and has lasted for up to 21 days. Testing has revealed I've been pushed into
                   7 days following the vaccination I had exquisite eye pain that was so extreme I was
dry reaching on my hands and knees, it felt like a blood clot passed through my eye. This sharp eye
pain instantly relieved the horrendous headache for about 24 hours. At this point I had constant
chest pain radiating up into the left side of my neck, jaw, face, into my left shoulder and arm. This
then progressed to include shortness of breath, fluid retention with pressure pain in my lower legs,
ankles and feet, as well as sharp pain in my calves.

At my first presentation to Emergency, I was advised that blood clots don't cause pain and they'd had
'lots of people present with chest pain post COVID vaccination'. After my second presentation I was
referred to a Cardiologist. It took some time to get in to see the Cardiologist. I was still in constant
pain, and I made lifestyle changes and subconsciously started breathing shallowly to avoid the spikes
of very sharp pain that occurred if I took a normal or deep breath, even in appointments when asked
to take a deep breath I subconsciously didn't to avoid the additional pain. I didn't figure out I was
shallow breathing until                                            we were instructed to take a
neurologic sigh. It was only after this when I started breathing normally that the pericardial rub could
be heard on auscultation.

I have felt organs and joints being 'attacked'. There has not been an organ which has not been
affected. These episodes can last for a couple of days, months; or it has been constant from the
vaccination 23 months ago. Symptoms in one area may subside only to return with equal vigour. My
immune system no longer functions properly, nor does my brain. Unfortunately, I have a shopping list
of symptoms, some of which include symptoms of ADD, and early symptoms consistent with
                       It was normal prior to stopping work to be in tears driving home at the end of
the day due to extreme pain. Coming home from anywhere, I might sit in the car for an hour because
I simply could not get out. My oxygen stats on a pulse oximeter which normally sat at 100% dropped
to 94 and below. Sitting at rest at times my pulse could be close to 100 when it previously sat at 56­
62. I had to lie down after showering, rolling over in bed would produce tachycardia, I would be lucky
to be capable of washing my hair once a fortnight. Post vaccination, my normal was lying in bed
(propped up as otherwise I could not breathe) for 12-15 hours per day. It is only in the last couple of
months that I have started sleeping flat again for 6 hours. I do not think I cooked a meal for my family
for the first few months where I'd normally made 3 meals a day 4-5 days a week and 2 meals a day
on the other days. I previously milled my own flour from nuts and seeds and all baking and meals
was done from scratch. I stopped workand I'm doing well now if I manage to
make a meal a day and I've now had to start using 'convenience foods'. We had to employ people to
take over the things I did around the house as I could no longer perform all the activities of daily
living and              had to^^^^^^^Hso he could pick up the pieces at home. The burden
(emotional, physical and financial) has at times been almost unbearable. For a family who firstly
values loved ones, then most values health and education; and for a person that loves engaging with
and looking after my family, my sharp mind, my vocation/occupation, socialising/exercising with
friends, and intensely dislikes ineptitude, this experience has been torturous.

I stopped playingI could no longer even play a
game of pool or table tennis. The concentration it takes to play a boardgame, write anything
(including this) has even been too much. Even holding a conversation or being around other people,
including my nuclear family is too much daily, which means even though I might physically be in the
house I am not present for them. I have had to stop doing all the things that bring me joy, even the
small things like participating in the mundane parts of family life. It is very isolating not being able to
participate and be present, but at the same time not wanting to hold the people that you love back.

This experience has enabled me to see the flaws in our system which is meant to provide education
and healthcare. It has saddened me that our governments have failed to properly advise healthcare
providers and patients about the actual side effects and numeric frequency of side effects of
vaccination. I have just reviewed the Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care,
Therapeutic Goods Administration, COVID-19 vaccine safety reports. While they talk about
myocarditis, pericarditis and thrombosis, they do not discuss Long Vax, Dysautonomia, Multisystem
Inflammatory Syndrome, Micro clotting, Dysregulation of Immune Function, changes to Menstrual
Cycle etc. This has then meant that care provided has at times been significantly less than optimal,
advise from medical providers has varied from excellent and research/clinically based to unhelpful,
distressing and contradictory to evidence. When you seek GP or Specialist Medical Care it is not
unreasonable to expect that they should have a greater evidence-based knowledge about your
symptoms, condition and care than you do. Seeking Specialist Medical Care has not always been
timely, which can mean they don't always get an accurate clinical picture and therefore diagnosis.
Referrals has sometimes been rejected and given the 'rarity' of serious adverse reactions
practitioners (especially regionally) have not seen a significant number, or even any other similar
patients. This has necessitated travelling to                 attend appointments for treatment and
testing. Fatigue, finances and proximity to caretnenbecome issues.

Although there was meant to be mandatory reporting of adverse side effects of the COVID
vaccination, that did not always occur. And if it did occur, then there was no follow up from the TGA
or Department of Health. I have not been contacted by the either at any point. You cannot expect
patients to self-report when they themselves are unwell.

The governments have not identified Specialists in diagnosing and treating vaccination reactions for
other healthcare providers to refer to. Without early diagnosis and treatment, clinical outcomes will
always be worse.

I understand that Clinicians are not Scientists, but they should be trained to take a thorough history
and without bias critically evaluate a patient's presentation. They should have the autonomy to
question/report what they are seeing clinically and question government directives and mandates
openly without fear of government reprisal, risk to registration or being labelled as something they
are not. Without educated people asking educated questions and continually re-evaluating results,
outcomes will never improve, and the same mistakes and suboptimal outcomes will continue to be
repeated. They should be able to practice according to the World Medical Association Declaration of
Geneva (Modern Hippocratic Oath), Nuremberg Code and follow manufacturers advice for the timing
of the delivery of medication autonomous to the evolving political situation and desires.

Coercive control should not be used by any level of government to gain 'voluntary consent' for
medical interventions. How can consent be considered voluntary when someone's livelihood is on
the line?

Government advice regardless of where that advice is sought (online, over the phone, in person),
should be consistent, clear, factual, and evidence/scientifically based. When new research or clinical
evidence is available communication should be updated. I recently rang a Childrens Hospital and the
on-hold health advise is wrong and data regarding the information has been available for well over
12 months.

Government should be held to the same standard, if not a higher standard than the rest of the
population.            articles and interview of Liberal Senator^^^^^Hshower the Government
had censored over 4000 social media posts regarding COVID 19, many of which were actually
accurate. There should be no fear of censorship in this country when the truth is being told. When I
was seeking support from my profession, and I stated that I had had a medically diagnosed
vaccination reaction. I was asked to take it down, so the site organiser did not get into trouble. While
I understood where they were coming from, there cannot be censorship or fear of censorship for
those in need.

There is no formal easy to use support system for patients who have had adverse vaccination
reactions that treating practitioners know about or can refer to, especially regionally. If vaccinations
are going to be mandated there needs to be appropriate support (financial, emotional and physical)
that is genuine, easy to access and use for those people.
