These are my thoughts, experiences, knowledge, questions and demands as an Australian Citizen.

The government needs to undertake a full royal commission into the handling of the covid-19 response
and impact to Australia as a country, society, health system, businesses, ALL levels of government,
individuals and the influence of unelected organisations.



There needs to be a full audit and disclosure of all government spending (TAX PAYERS MONEY).

This needs to include the advertising and promoting, including using endorsement of celebrities,
sports people and highly influential people to con the public into being vaccinated.

There needs to be full disclosure of all tax relief provided to all organisations, including media outlets
and this needs to paid back to the government, particularly where large businesses continued to make
large profits and they were no way affected financially, whilst small businesses were forced to shut
down.

There needs to be full disclosure of how much the government paid for vaccines and pharmaceutical
companies.

There needs to be full disclosure of the pharmaceutical company contracts and the liability.

The building of unnecessary infrastructure, was a waste of tax payers money. In particular
Queensland's isolation centre, what is that used for now? It was built after the fact, they built it too
late, it shouldn't have been built, it was a waste of money, and who actually benefitted??

The decision to build a MRNA vaccine factory, why all of a sudden did we HAVE to build this and who
approved this? How is this being funded. It is now also extremely evident that the MRNA vaccine does
not work, nor is it fit to be injected into humans. The Federal Government has signed off on this. This
needs to be transparent and made accountable.

A Financial audit should also extend to ALL Government funded agencies as to how they responded to
the Pandemic? Did they impose vaccine mandates? Did they spend tax payers money to pay for legal
fees to enforce the vaccine mandates? They should be made to pay this back. As a Tax payer, I do not
feel that is appropriate way of utilising government funding or my hard earned money. They, the
funded organisations, made a choice to impose unnecessary and illegal vaccine mandates, the funded
organisations should have to pay for it out of their own funds, not the tax payer.



All health ministers, government leaders, Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), Australian Health
Practitioner Regulation Agency (APRHA) and Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) should be held
accountable for their decisions and continued push for a vaccine, when the vaccine was still only
classed as provisional, it had not gone through the rigorous trials and time period for a vaccine to be
classed as safe and effective.

The ABS played a role in the distortion of statistics, the TGA statistics are false.

Medical professionals and hospitals should be held accountable and it should be disclosed that they
falsely counted deaths that were no way related to covid as a covid death, such as motor vehicle
accidents. You know this happened.
APHRA need to be accountable and it be disclosed that they have overstepped their authority in
deregistering medical professional who stood by their Hippocratic Oath, and first do no harm. These
are the doctors and medical professionals looking after the health of the public. Their registrations
need to be reinstated and they should be compensated for this.

I am opposed to the removal of our freedoms by governments in the form of mask mandates, vaccine
mandates, lockdowns, and curfews. Restricting peoples freedom of movement occurred in the way of
imposing mask mandates, enforcing social distancing, lockdowns and mandatory isolations. Every
instance has scarred every Australian whether they realise it or not.



Proof of vaccination having to show private medical information to unrelated parties, is a breach of
privacy. This should never have been allowed to happen and should NEVER be allowed to happen
again. If people didn't have this "Proof", they were denied entry to Hospitals, medical services, aged
care facilities. My ageing father required treatment for an extended period of time during the
pandemic and long after the pandemic, all of my family did not have proof of vaccination, and we were
unable to visit him in his time of need. This caused immense stress and worry, my children could not
understand why were weren't allowed to see him. These so called safe practices, such as wearing
masks, showing false RAT tests etc, by aged care facilities still continues today and is still causing stress
by the visitor's, patients and even the staff required to enforce these ridiculous rules.

This forced segregation started to infiltrate into my children's school. There was threats to have
children excluded from school who were not vaccinated, this scared me, as I was feeling pressure from
every angle to get vaccinated and vaccinate my children. I was prepared to remove my children from
school and home school them.

My son is a talented footballer, he was excluded from                           Football League
^^^^|due to their vaccine mandate that stemmed from the Australian Football League (AFL) vaccine
mandate. My teenage son then became depressed. This became an extremely divisive topic within our
family, as our children did not understand why we wouldn't just get the vaccine. He now knows of
fellow footballers, his same age, who now have heart conditions and can not play after having the
vaccine.



Vaccine mandates required by employers. This is discrimination and it still continues today. ALL
Mandates need to end. People should be offered their jobs back. This was an injustice on all people,
forcing them to have a vaccine in order to keep their job. People who chose to look after their own
health and not have the vaccine lost their jobs, they found it difficult to find other work due to these
vaccine mandates. These people should be reinstated and compensated. This includes the mandates
on health workers, and we are still feeling the effects of these mandates to this day. The health systems
are collapsing because they have no staff, the staff are over worked and we are ramping occurring, I
would say at all of the city hospitals, which has resulted in people dying. This is a direct impact of the
mandates. The employment laws should support employee's rights to make a choice about their own
medical health and there should not be any vaccine mandates for employment.



The World Economic Forum (WEF), World Health Organisation (WHO), United Nations (UN),
Pharmaceutical companies have no right to tell us as a country, individual, business on how we should
live our lives, what medical procedures we should have, who we should interact with, where we can
go, nor should the government.



People have died from this period in time and not from covid. There was increased suicides, increased
domestic violence, loss of jobs, loss of businesses, loss of livelihoods, marriage breakdowns, families
torn apart. After the vaccine regime, we are now seeing excess deaths, severe injuries and deaths as a
direct result of having the vaccine, aggressive cancer as increased (and don't give me the line that no­
one was able to get tested, that's a cop out), increased heart issues and major health issues.

A Royal Commission needs to extend into looking at the reality of the vaccine injuries that have
occurred. The Australian citizens are not guinea pigs. This vaccine was pushed as safe and effective.
There is NO evidence that this was EVER the case. The Government needs to be held accountable for
their actions in pushing this narrative. The vaccine injured have been silenced, they need to be
recognised and it be known that this is the reality. The numbers of people injured needs to be known.
Doctor's were silenced, but more so, the Doctor's did not want to know about the injuries most likely
because it was difficult to report.

    •        My Mother now has^^^|after 3 vaccine shots
    •        My Father's
    •        My Brother had heart issues after 2 vaccine shots
    •        My Sister in law has heart issues after 2 vaccine shots
    •        My Neice has heart issues (21 years old) after 2 vaccine shots
    •        My Brother in law has mental health issues after 2 vaccine shots
    •        My Son's friend now has^^^M(18 years old) after 2 vaccine shots
    •        My friend had heart issues

I am scared for the future of Australia. I am scared for my family's medical needs in the future. As
unvaccinated people, we are not eligible for medical treatments such as transplants. This is still
currently happening. This needs to end.

I am scared that should any of us need a blood transfusion, we will receive blood that has been
vaccinated and then cause us health issues. Once we enter into the medical system, we are just a
number and are not respected and are discriminated against due to our choices for our health.



Human rights were violated all under the guise of a health pandemic.

All of this happened under the government's watch.

All of this happened using health and science as their reasoning.

All of this was based on greed and control from pharmaceutical companies.

All of this was and is propaganda

The truth needs to come out. This is a disgraceful time in Australia's history and there needs to be
accountability and action. All of this rubbish still continues to this day.

As citizen of Australia, a rate payer, a tax payer and human being, I am imploring you to do the right
thing, be transparent, say sorry, make good for the harm you have caused, make the people who made
the decisions accountable. Undertake a Royal Commission into the handling of the covid-19 pandemic.
