Individual Submission
Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I am a practising Catholic and wanted to make this submission, as I understand the eligible responses
can be wide-ranging. Following are some of my key concerns that I would like to be reviewed as part
of the COVID Response Enquiry by the Government.

COVID-19 Lockdowns
As a Catholic, I was deeply shocked and saddened that I could not attend Mass or visit my church
during lockdowns. I dont believe churches have ever been closed by the Government in the past?
With our large churches, there was ample opportunity for distancing. During difficult times people
rely on their faith and draw strength from coming together. It is worth noting that many people
(particularly older people) have not returned to Mass and churches post COVID. As we know, the
cure also had serious mental health implications and side effects.

COVID-19 and Abortion
The Catholic Church condoned the use of the AZ and other vaccines. However, these vaccines
are developed from aborted fetal tissue. To force people to have the vaccine (at risk of losing their
job, as well as risking other key life opportunities) is a terrible overreach and use of power. In the
event of future pandemics, I would expect to see the government offer a vaccine that is morally
acceptable to people of faith in Australia. Despite dispensation from the Catholic Church for not
attending Mass and being able to use the various government approved vaccines, it raises a very
deep sadness that we have compromised core beliefs to be compliant.

Post COVID-19 and Research
I hope that the Australian Government can rely on the research that already exists in the
development of the report for the COVID-19 Response Inquiry. To that extent, I would like to offer
some thoughts on research:

•   In 2023, Sweden and the UK developed reports on their country's management of the COVID-19
    pandemic. Sweden didn't go into lockdown and their report was 1700 words. The UK had over
    70 lawyers writing their report (which wont be completed until end of 2023) and by mid-2023
    had spent over 100 million pounds to write it.
•   Dr John Cambell is consolidating and updating much of the post COVID research that shows
    evidence supporting natural immunity, and other key findings. His research can be found via
    Youtube.
•   Prof John P. A. loannidis, provides highly relevant medical research (European Journal of Clinical
    Investigation, available for free download
    https://onlinelibrary.wilev.com/doi/10.llll/eci.14136 and by way of summary relating to
    research into the effect of a 4th dose of vaccine, shows a study in Austria which puts into doubt
    the efficacy of a 4th dose. In a population wide study, the 4th dose conferred no reduction in
    deaths, but only protects against infections in first three months, HOWEVER, for the 6 months
    after that there were actually more infections. If more are infected there is greater risk of long
    COVID. A fundamental question to be researched, is whether the increase in infection is caused
    by some overall effect of reducing immune efficiency from boosters. The data is highly relevant
    contained in this report is highly relevant. Furthermore, natural immunity may be a main
    determinant of immunological protection in the population. By end of 2022, the majority of the
    global population had already acquired some immune protection. Compared to 3 vaccine doses,
    those with fewer or no vaccinations did not differ with regard to COVID mortality. In 2022,
    infection fatality rates to COVID significantly declined suggesting transition into endemicity. We
    need to question whether recommendations for repeated vaccine boosters are justified for large
    parts of the general community with a history of previous infections. Measures against SARS-


                                                    1
    COV-2 including vaccine policy should be critically reassessed for the risk-to-benefit ratio. Note,
    also that adverse risks from vaccines are also still occurring.
•   Many Australian voters are aware that the vaccinated succumbed to COVID at higher rates than
    the unvaccinated and that elevated excess death rates occurred among highly vaccinated
    nations rather than countries with low vaccination rates.
•   Why is the Australian Government is continuing to pursue Treaties and Regulations giving the
    discredited WHO the power to internationally mandate more deadly vaccines?




                                                   2
