Submission made to Pandemic Inquiry by John Norton a critical thinker.

It has been highlighted that the three members of the Inquiry were pro government actions
during the pandemic years. This does not inspire confidence that the true understanding of
what/should of happened will be disclosed. Secondly the prime minister during the Labor
campaign stated he would form a Royal Commission into this, again this does not bode well that
this will be considered accurately.

I am travelling in country China as I try to type this on my iPad and somehow make a docx file to
submit by the 15/12/23 really the 15/12/23 when was it open to make submissions I had a look
three weeks ago and could not find a submission process by my calculation there is around 4
weeks for the public to make a submission.

We had a robust pandemic plan in place prior to 2020, this seemed to be dismissed immediately
with the discovery of this virus. Why? No plausible explanation was provided to the public as to
why our pandemic response plan was inadequate except to bow down to the alarmist.

The federal Bio security Act has no scope to detain healthy people. Why were healthy people
detained?

In our passports the GG asks that the person is allowed the freedom to travel, however the
Australia Government restricted royal subjects from travelling overseas, the Australian
Government further restricted duel nationals from travelling overseas, if my memory serves me
correctly The Australian Government refused entry of Australians trying to enter or come back to
Australia, this action makes a person stateless which is a travesty and should never be allowed
to happen ever again.

With travel restricted in or out of Australia our passport were not used for two years there was
no compensation offered for the amount of time the passport was ineffective, I wrote to the
minister in charge of passport and was told the main cost of a passport was an administrative
charge and therefore no refund for the ineffective use of the passport is payable, with
approximate 15million Australian passports issued, I doubt that the main cost of the passport is
adminstrave charges and consider this just spin doctoring BS, this needs your slight attention,
actions have consequences in this matter there was no consequence to the Australian
Government and therefore easily taken.

When did the government discover that the vaccine did not stop transmitting the virus, when did
the government know that the vaccine did not stop getting the virus, why were we told that it did
stop the virus and stopped the transmittal of the virus.
mRNA injections do not fit the profile of a vaccine why wasn’t the public told about this. Why did
a gene therapy go thru the the vaccine approval process. Why wasn’t the gene therapy
approval by the correct authorities.
In 1901 the colony’s of Victoria and NSW etc where dissolved and the Commonwealth of
Australia was formed. The states and terrorities are political limitations and not physical borders
within Australia. Under the constitution we the people enjoy the same rights throughout
Australia, however this constitutional right was removed during the pandemic without any
referendum to change the constitution. This needs serious consideration by the panel. Freedom
to travel is another right under the constitution this was also restricted during the pandemic,
again no referendum was put to the people. Why, why were the constitutional rights of
Australians trampled so easily. We switched from a democratic process to an Authoritarian
process quite easily. We do not have many rights under the Australian Constitution and yet
where removed easily.

What due diligence was done by the government to establish the type of virus that was
potentially arriving into Australia.
Did the australia Government determine if the virus was naturally formed or a result of human
intervention. ( bio weapon)
This is of utmost importance to determine a course of action.
The narrative not a lab leak, now possible lab leak why such a change of thought.

Also talking about a possible bio weapon/man made/altered virus why was a military person put
in charge of the Pandemic response, my understanding is that there is a strict divide regarding
the military use within Australia by using the military to lead a response is interesting to say the
least. This also occurred in other Commonwealth countries, why did this happen if it was not a
bio weapon on the loose.

The WHO is an advisory body, what sovereign risk assessment was performed to establish the
advice from the WHO was accurate and appropriate for Australia, seasonal difference, hot
weather versus hobart weather and then the risk to the people of Australia regarding social,
financial and mental.

I need to mention the health system, why was the experience of our doctors discounted. Why
was there a narrative that the doctors had to obey, why have doctors been deregistered. Safe
and effective Marta was used if a doctor publicly stated that their was a risk in taking the vaccine
serious action was taken against that person. Why did the Government monitor the social media
and have posts removed.
There were cheap alternate treatments which even our own Monash university had identified
the potential but considering the non commercial interest in cheap medicines further studies
were not performed, why didn’t the government fund research into the other existing treatments
instead of funding the experimental vaccines that were coerced onto the population.

Why was the prime minister mysteriously recalled to Canberra out of parliament sitting days
during the pandemic, the public was never informed why he went back to Canberra. What was
this secret matter that required his attendance in Canberra.
What risk assessment was done for the imminent arrival of the virus and post arrival, 800 elderly
people died in Victoria, when we knew that the elderly were affected the most. Same for a bad
flu, the elderly are most at risk. Why wasn’t more done to protect this cohort of people.
Healthy children were least at risk and yet this cohort were kept at home Why?

I see in media that nobody was “forced”to take a vaccine however then do not address the
coercion that took place. No vaccine no job, if I understand correctly State based matters are
not of your concern, so will address federal matters, AFP, commonwealth public servants. Did
any one of this federally employed cohort get coerced to be vaccinated, lost jobs, suspended.
Why this is a form of coercion, to travel out/in of Australia you had to be vaccinated. The federal
government stated that it was not mandated to be vaccinated. Yet travel to or out of Australia it
was mandated. How does this even exist on the same level!!!

I put on record a small amount of my state base observations,

So called border closures with 30k people waiting to cross,
Hospital only for state based persons
Politically based police actions.( sad case in Victoria)
Authoritarian state government actions.
Section 5 of the QLD public health act states nothing to stop civil rights and 1/1/2020 QLD
human rights Act came into force, then very quickly some sections over ridden.
What I have witnessed in Australia is a very quick adoptation of an Authoritarian regime under
the guise of health safety, (again Victoria a sad case with permanent powers given to the
premier)

I consider myself as a worldly citizen having lived, travelled and doing business overseas.
 I was questioned when I was by myself going fishing in my boat, absolutely no risk, I was
challenged at the ramp and was advised that the water police were also questioning boats on
the water by another boatie. WTF

The actions of the Government both state and federal was disapportionate to the “actual” risk
posed by a virus. The Government modelling was not accurately performed with the resultant
risk and risk assessment if any were perform were flawed.

I put to the members that we have high road deaths, if the health people were put only in charge
of reducing these deaths, the obvious solution would be to a health person would be restrict the
speed of vehicles to stop deaths. Say a 30km per hour limit, definitely a 20kph limit would
reduce the risk to nearly zero. Would this be practical No, well just the same for a virus, the
restricting of healthy people, lockdowns/travel/curfews/mandates without considering the social,
financial and mental impacts was irresponsible of the Governments of Australia and created the
rise of a Authoritarian regime.

This leads my to another observation of Sovereignty, how many of our politicians are WEF
disciples, the heath minister Greg     even had a WEF book on his bookcase in one of his
speeches. The WEF head has openly stated that he has infiltrated parliaments around the
world. What have we done as a government to ensure our Sovereignty is intact and not under
the influence of an outside power, I have noted interestingly that a members bill was voted out
to register the interests of members of parliament. This needs serious investigatation to ensure
our sovereignty is intact, between the WEF, Masons, corporations and Fabian’s I doubt that the
interests of the people are of the most utmost importance to the persons in power.


Now to the aftermath of the pandemic, I am angry when I look around at what is happening,
every business that had to close has a human tragedy, the increase in so called inflation caused
by the people spending too much not, ( corporate gouging,) corporate capture of the
government, the yes campaign has made this so obvious, mental health issues, homelessness,
property unobtainable for many, authoritarian legislation being created, dis/mis information Bill,
digital identity bill. And the biggest one of all excess deaths, when this first started i knew that
there would be resultant death from the authoritarian responses. Now we are here and despite a
few active Senators, the Australian Government still has their heads in the sand.
Where is our data by the batch on injuries, the NZ payment by shots data is very interesting and
similar to other countries experiences. Where is the RECORD LEVEL DATA, Why is this not
shown by the Australian Government. Safe and Effective was the mantra, history will show this
as one our our most devastating periods for public health.
Seems to me that a little bit of DNA in the mRNA vaccines is a little strange and the change
from small batch to large batch manufacturing was different, anyways I called this a god drug,
and with no toxicity testing done, the result is literally in the lap of the gods.
Heart problems in young men was very minor prior to the pandemic, now becoming normalised,
blood clotting issues, turbo cancer, and the government is not serious about finding out the
cause. I hope you seriously look at this as history will also judge your report on the cusp this
medical tragedy that is unfolding.

End of Submission

Not sure how many pages this is please accept this submission.
