                                                                                           15/12/2023




To whom it may concern,

I am writing to respond to the call for submission and evidence to the COVID-19 response inquiry by
the Australian government. I received a link requesting a response to this inquiry two to three days
ago, and have not had the time to adequately prepare my notes in a way that I would have found
necessary for a subject such as the Covid-19 Vaccines. My first point of call is to suggest that the
response inquiry could have been advertise on television, radio, newspaper and online media so as
to gather feedback from a larger sample of Australian people. My concern is that data is being
collected in a disorganised and haphazard way that will not result in statistically balanced collection
of data or the Australian people with open opportunity to share their data.

My first feedback to the inquiry refers to the financial support for individuals. Throughout the
pandemic, I received a disability support income pension from the government. I received COVID
stimulus payments. As a person who lives securely on the disability support pension income, the
stimulus package payments were unnecessary. This has resulted in excessive debt for the Australian
people. People who receive disability support benefits have access services such as medical aid,
homelessness and housing, AOD services, community mental health, discounted pharmaceuticals,
disability services, job services, food bank and food pantry, financial counselling, and not for profit
agencies such as a Salvation Army for gift cards for food, clothing and furniture items. We are already
provided with so much to live well. Australian businesses were shut down and many lost their
livelihoods during the covid pandemic. This stimulus package is financially irresponsible and without
consideration for the future generations who would have to be paying off the debt.



Later on, I engaged in part time employment and was required to receive vaccinations. I had
significant responses to the vaccines and regret receiving the vaccines. I am a physically healthy adult
female, and it was unnecessary for me be vaccinated for a virus that has low death rate
comparatively to the significant health decline I experienced. I have been living with vaccine side
effects for a longer period of time than I would have been sick from the virus. I advise to never
enforce vaccinations upon people again. I advise to bring in new policy to restrict future
governments from enforcing vaccinations.



My second issue raises question about the contradictory evidence and opinions presented in regards
to the personal protective equipment. It seems difficult to believe that experts were unable to
identify weather a virus was capable of being transmitted through a surgical mask or a N95 mask. It
appears that both of the mask styles were incapable of preventing transmission and this has resulted
in a excessive amount of waste to the environment.



My third issue is that recent studies have found contaminated DNA inside vials of
^^^^^Bvaccines. I am deeply concerned by this. I do not know why the Australian media is not
reporting on this and calling for members of the general public, medical doctors, genomics scientists
and people who have been experiencing medical anomalies since receiving the vaccines to come
forward and begin the public discussion about what has happened. The fact that these DNA
fragments able to interact with the cell nucleus and make alterations to the way in which the cells
presents itself needs immediate action taken by responsible member of society. Not only am I
concerned for my individual safety in receiving this vaccine, but also for others, in particular children
and babies who have been born with these synthetic DNA pieces inside their bodies.

I want questions to be answered by the Australian government, scientists, genomics experts as to
whether these DNA fragments were present in the growth of my nephews foetus while he was in the
womb. I want detailed research as to whether these DNA fragments are part of his genome now. I
want to know whether these DNA fragments are in his bone tissue.

It would be wise to request independent researchers to investigate if the synthetic DNA will be
permanently inside his bone and body, and whether they we will ever be able to get it out of him.
Independent analysis would be able to provide if he will live a life with his body genetically edited by
a medical treatment that was specifically designed to treat a respiratory virus.

 It has been difficult for me to fathom how this could happen. I cannot understand how the collection
of the Australian scientific community could not have performed a DNA sequencing on the vaccines
prior to them being injected in our bodies including babies.

My faith in the Australian government has been understandably damaged due to this occurrence. I
consider that the task force that is being set up is unreliable based on recent reputation based on
choices of the Australian government in regards to administering us with a contaminated vaccine.

I would like answers in regards to whether the DNA fragments were placed in the vaccines with an
intent for them to alter the way in which our cells function. I would like to know how the DNA is
interacting with my cells individually and what the likely outcomes will be in regards to myself, my
family, my community and the Australian population. I would like to access relevant research over
the past forty years to say whether or not we have the ability to provide by definition, "expert
advice" on what the^^Hvials contaminants will do to our human genome. It seems that regardless
of education, do we as human beings actually have the research on what will happen to our bodies
with these substance inside us now. To rephrase myself, I mean to say that I do not believe that we
have adequate knowledge and research to be able to comment on what will be the outcome of this
synthetic DNA entering our bodies. My argument is that "expert opinions" unable to be expert by
definition.

My suggestion is that the Australian government set up community meetings within local council
zones over a three to six month period in which community members can meet weekly to fortnightly
to start discussing and unravelling what they are experiencing. An emphasis needs to be made on the
need to build up the medical experiences and medical anomalies that the Australian people are
having from a standpoint of "unknown", rather than attempting to apply current medical knowledge
and identification to the experiences. The six month meetings would allow for people to take the
time to properly process this new information about the contaminated DNA in the vaccines, and
begin to communicate and document how they are experiencing their being since receiving the
vaccines. Disappointingly, the Australian government seems to have forgotten what our core values
as a group of people are which once were egalitarianism, a fair go, and a laid back and open hearted
lifestyle. It appears that our goodwill and faith has been considered somewhat disingenuously by
leaders masked with pride who prioritise personal gain over the health of the human race.

I believe that the Australian people would like to be informed about the presence of the DNA in the
vaccines by the media. They have the right to access and openly discuss past and current research on
what this means for their health and that of their families. It is important that hospitals and doctors'
surgeries are made aware so that they can analyse symptoms in the light of the new knowledge. We
deserve the right to legal representation and information on what the steps are moving forward for
compensation and legal rights in regards to DNA editing and genetically modified human DNA. Every
Australian who received the vaccines has the right to access DNA sequencing to see in what ways
their cells have been altered by the vaccines. Given the response of the Covid pandemic, I would
expect that these steps would be easy to put in place, especially given that you are doing this with
the intention of preparedness for another future pandemic.



There appears to be significant gaps between expert assumptions based on their prior knowledge
and expert knowledge based on current testing current research and completed studies. It is
apparent that further investigation is required by multiple groups to understand what has occurred
with the covert pandemic, what has occurred with the vaccines, the ongoing rumours regarding
whether the virus was designed in a lab or came from the natural environment. The lack of clarity
has stained the Australian community and left us with a loss of our 'how you are going' mentality.
The trust that once existed between neighbours and community members has been damaged given
the emotional violence that was inflicted in the forms of public humiliation and shaming for any
human psychology that disagreed with the one track minded perspective on the pandemic. The way
in which government policy silence people's opinions, could be compared to severe psychological
abuse and coercive control.



My last comment is in regards to fringe science which is suggesting that a substance present in the
vaccine is able to go through a transmutation which is resulting in the presence of unknown
substances being discovered in human tissue, human blood, and human urine. It is with great regret
to read that these substances are present in the womb, ovaries, sperm as well as native and
domestic animals, animals used in farming, waterways, public drinking water, rain water, food,
pharmaceutical products, including insulin and anaesthetics,. This is devastating to the natural
environment, and I refuse to hold onto hope that the Australian government might take action in
researching this. There are so many reports that people are sharing that an average human being
would say 'need to investigate' I Holding on to hope has put me into a place of false belief that action
by government. It appears that it is time for the Australian people to engage in independent research
into these issues.



Respectfully yours,

An average Aussie female.
