Medical perspective.
Australian abandoned the established international protocol for a response to a pandemic, and
implemented lockdowns etc.
Anti-virals like Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine are Zinc ioniphores, and they are some of the
safest drugs in medicine. But they were generally banned for treating Covidl9 except in hospital trials.
The initial reason for this was that they were not safe, but it was later confirmed that the real reason
was that the TGA and AHPRA were concerned that they might have created vaccine hesitancy.
However when the anti-virals from Big-Pharma became available it was no time before they were
allowed to be prescribed here.
Doctors in Queensland could be jailed for prescribing hydroxychloroquine for Covid 19. Laws were
passed in Qld that made it illegal to spread "disinformation" (that is, information not consistent with
the governments narrative) was introduced late in the pandemic.
The TGA should never have approved any vaccines because there were, early on in the pandemic,
protocols that used safe anti-virals, hydoxychloroquine and Ivermectin.
The public were told that the vaccines were tested for their ability to stop transmission when they
were not. We were told that they were safe, but the original data was only released after court
proceedings in the USA. Their safety remains an issue.
The TGA approved two vaccines, one from China and one from India, which were among the vaccines
people from overseas could take for entry into Australia. These two vaccines did not use cell lines
from                                       in their testing or production. While                      did
not use these cell lines in their production they used those cell lines in their testing. Why weren't
these ethical vaccines from India or China made available in Australia?
^^^^^^^^^^^■vaccine for Covid 19 was developed in Adelaide . It was also an ethical vaccine
                                                      from voluntary^^^^^f I was a protein based
vaccine that is using vaccine technology like Novavax - it was approved for EUA before Novavax (in
Iran). Its ongoing development was not supported by the government or the CSL and no reason was
given for this. Why didn't the Government support this australain developed vaccine?
The Australian government has refused to have a royal commission into the Covidl9 pandemic in
Australia. Why? There seems more than enough to investigate simply from a medical perspective.
