Thursday 14 December 2023

Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Sirs/Madam

We write as the parents of a healthcare worker negatively impacted by the pandemic response from the Queensland
State Government and her employer,

Our^^^^^was stood down from her employment                                                          dedicated work and
an impeccable record), for requesting time to assess the outcomes of the COVID vaccine Stage 3 Clinical Trials, before
getting vaccinated.

After being stood down on                     she was unable to access unemployment benefits as she was still
technically employed, but on no pay. As a result, she                                and had to move in with us.
Over the next eighteen (18) months we supported her financially and emotionally. We watched the trauma of her
being labelled an "anti-vaxxer", the damage to her mental health from being prevented from communicating with her
work colleagues and being shut out from participating in society.

Ultimately, she had to move interstate an^ou^Hh^Tealthcare system to find a job that did not require 'the jab'.
Her training and expertise were lost                    a time there was a severe shortage in skilled healthcare
workers. This shortage persists until today!

The impact of the mandates has been felt by the entire family who are now spread over several states. Family
members who took the vaccine, under threat of job losses, have suffered severe health outcomes. We, however,
remain un-vaccinated for COVID and remain healthy.

Data from western governments all around the world now reveals the vaccines were ineffective and unsafe. Millions
of vaccinated people worldwide have had COVID multiple times, thousands have died, and many have suffered
financial losses due to the illogical, unscientific, and unnecessary lockdowns. In Australia, evidence of 'excess deaths'
since the vaccine rollout, are not being investigated.

The shutting down of professional debate, the attack on alternative CV treatments, the silencing of free speech and
the attack on human rights, suggests Australia is no longer meeting the standards of a independent Liberal
Democracy. This has caused us to question everything the government now supports or legislates! Because of the
pandemic response in this country, we have lost a degree of confidence in the government, the media, and the
regulators.

We are also concerned that unelected international bodies, such as the World Health Organization (WHO), will
attempt to dictate health policy in Australia, and other nations, for future pandemics or issues such as climate change
mitigation. Given the past performance of the WHO, we believe this could lead to more severe, unnecessary, and
punitive impacts for people around the globe. Australia must NOT cede sovereignty and control.




Queensland
