Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Submission

To the Inquiry

Unfortunately, I am not going to invest the time and care I normally would writing a
submission of this nature. I do not believe you are listening or actually care what ordinary
citizens think. I have no doubt you will perversely use the responses received as a way of
congratulating yourselves and governing us even harder next time.

Nevertheless, I must take this meagre opportunity to record my enduring disgust at the
Commonwealth's response to the Covid 'pandemic'. I've certainly had enough time to think
about thethat has been your response.

Here are my thoughts by way of submissions.

^^^^^^^^^terms of reference


Terms of reference

The terms of reference are^^^^^^^^^^^|designed to silence dissent and criticism.
Are we really expected to believe that the states unilaterally chose to implement draconian
measures such that it is appropriate that those measures should be excluded from the
terms of reference? What absolute nonsense! I do not believe this for a second. As federal
Health Minister ^^^^^|said at the beginning of the vaccine roll out, Australia is engaged
in a global experiment. Australia's participation in that experiment was orchestrated at a
federal level and delivered and enforced via clandestine, undemocratic national Cabinet
meetings. The states were puppets on a Commonwealth string.

Governance

Commonwealth Government
The former Prime Minister Scott Morrison said at one point that there was no policy of
mandatory vaccination in this country and then just like Pontius Pilate, washed his hands of
citizens who refused the vaccines and consequently lost their employment. The federal
government failed in its duty to serve and protect its citizens. The federal government
should have passed legislation, as it was encouraged to do by a number of senators, to
protect its citizens from discrimination in relation to their vaccination status. This action
would have upheld the fundamental human right to informed consent to medical treatment
which clearly features in the Australian Immunisation Handbook. The handbook clearly
states that valid legal consent 'must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure,
coercion or manipulation.' What happened there? Where was the Human Rights
Commission? Australians suffered considerable pain, injury and hardship as a result of the
discrimination that ensued.
ATAGI
There was a reference in one of the ATAGI policies dated 6 April 2022 to vaccines being
administered opportunistically. This is very concerning. All vaccinations should be given
with informed consent.

National Cabinet
National Cabinet is not constitutional. It should therefore not be subject to "cabinet
secrecy". To the extent it needed to exist for a "coordinated response" it should have been
transparent. It wasn't. It was and remains an aberration. It must never be formed again.

Key health response measures

Pharmaceutical vigilance
The TGA has completely failed in its duty to carry out pharmaceutical vigilance both before
the Australian approval of the vaccines and after the vaccines were administered. The TGA
relied on FDA approvals given on inadequately conducted trials which on review showed
some alarming results. No oncogenicity or genotoxicity studies were done. The shots were
not demonstrated to be safe for pregnant and unborn babies or breastfeeding mothers and
children. An unprecedented number of deaths and injuries have been reported following
the vaccine rollout. These have not been adequately investigated to rule out the vaccine as
being causative, notwithstanding the fact that excess deaths are now being recorded. The
TGA has taken a 'see no evil' approach to its duty to protect and serve citizens from
iatrogenic harm. After watching the TGA fail to investigate or adequately respond to
questions in the senate, I no longer have any faith in the TGA at all. There needs to be an
overhaul of the TGA with a focus on ridding it of conflicts of interest both to big
pharmaceutical companies and government. There should also arguably be^BHHMMH
for^^^^^^^^^^Hby the TGA officers involved.


Early treatments
Where were the early treatments for Covid? It is a disgrace that hydroxychloroquine and
ivermectin were not available to Australians. The evidence has for a long time supported
their use against corona viruses. People unduly suffered as a result of not being able to
access these treatments.

Hamstrung GPs
Similarly, AHPRA actively prevented doctors treating patients as they saw fit and banned
prescribing some early treatments or even testing for previous infection. Australian citizens
were left to their own devices. Doctors were even reluctant to acknowledge or speak out
about adverse events because of fear of repercussions. It is outrageous that we pay taxes
for this complete lack of care and derogation of duty. Shame on AHPRA and on the
Commonwealth allowing its standover tactics to be used on our medical profession.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations

Respect Australian human rights first and foremost
Australian human rights and freedom of choice must be respected first and foremost. The
nonsense fear mongering, censorship and the coercion of people to repeatedly take unsafe
and defective vaccines must never be allowed to happen again. In addition, people must be
free to safely protest without fear of rubber bullets being shot at them. Likewise, the use of
LRADs on protesters in Canberra by the AFP must be fully investigated and never allowed to
happen again.

Indigenous Australians
The inquiry should also ensure that inducements made to vulnerable remote indigenous
people to get them to take the vaccines must never happen again.

Masks and Lockdowns
Masks and lockdowns clearly do not work. Do not use them again.

No Moderna factories
We definitely do not need Moderna factories to produce more MRNA vaccines. Stop
wasting money on products that have shown themselves to be harmful and ineffective.
Rescind the contacts immediately.

World Health Organisation (WHO)
It is unclear what is meant by the terms of reference not including 'the International
programs and activities assisting foreign countries.' However, I am strongly of the view that
Australia should not sign up to the proposed pandemic treaty. The WHO did not get the
pandemic response right and should not be relied upon or allowed to dictate what happens
in the future. Australia should use its own pandemic plan and make decisions in the best
interests of Australia and Australians.

Yours sincerely
Jessica Collins
