As a person living with a disability, who specialises in disability and trauma consulting for a living, I
find/found the government's messaging and general perception of people with disabilities during the
pandemic to be extremely ableist, and more importantly, deeply offensive, and believe it to be
setting an extremely dangerous precedent.

Stereotypes surrounding individuals with disabilities, perpetuated by your crude and generalised
'health' messaging, have directly and harmfully contributed to the already existing perpetuations of
ableism, fostering greater discrimination, and reinforcing dangerous societal misconceptions.

Specifically, the stereotype that you have continuously, and publicly suggested, that simply by proxy
of being 'disabled' that that automatically implies we have compromised immune systems, and
therefore assumes that all disabled individuals are inherently more susceptible to negative health
issues. This stereotype not only oversimplifies the complex relationship between disability and
health but also perpetuates ableist attitudes, hindering the full integration of disabled individuals
into society.

Assuming a universal correlation between disability and compromised immune systems
oversimplifies the intricate interplay between different health aspects. Not all disabilities are
inherently linked to weakened immune responses, as each disability has its unique characteristics
and health implications. This has led to systemic discrimination, limiting access to opportunities,
healthcare, and social engagement. Moreover, the assumption that disabled individuals are more
susceptible to health issues can result in the neglect of their overall well-being, overlooking the
importance of tailored healthcare solutions and accommodations.

Excluding the blatant fear mongering perpetuated by not only yourselves, but the main stream
media, I myself, a male in my 30's who takes great pride in my physical fitness and wellbeing, find it
deeply offensive that your so-called experts publicly degree that I am somehow at a greater risk than
a morbidly obese male chain smoker in their 50's/60's. The evidence surrounding Covid and the risk
it poses was crystal clear from the beginning, and rather than being open and transparent about said
risk to those who are morbidly obese, you chose to alienate and segregate me from my peers and
colleagues because of the stereotype that I must therefore have compromised immune system.

I agree that obesity is an issue within the disabled community based on our limited physical capacity,
however, to publicly amplify harmful stereotypes about the capacity of my immune system is deeply
rooted in hateful ableism. During a time whereby the public became fearful of infection and of
potential interaction with said infectious persons, I was, again based on a stereotype you
perpetuated, perceived to be a greater risk because of my 'disability'. Rather than expressing that the
science clearly dictated whom was most at risk, that being the elderly and those with 3-4 or more
comorbidities, you instead decided to scapegoat disabled people as toxic disease-ridden invalids who
needed to be protected and separated from society.

Rather than emphasizing the importance of individualized healthcare, personal accountability and
provide sound practical advice such as healthy eating, diet and exercise, your health messaging
perpetrated an already harmful stereotype, and in doing so, only contributed to the difficulties that
disabled people face every day. You offered no hope or encouragement in a time whereby we
needed it most.

I am extremely embarrassed and dismayed by the actions of all associated government bodies and
so-called health experts, who instead of promoting healthy living, decided to foster a culture of fear
and segregation, all so that you could push a product that literally failed to do its designated purpose
of preventing infection. Rather than encourage health literacy and accountability of one's own health
care, you allowed people to buy into harmful stereotypes, doing literally nothing to address the
scientifically proven connection to obesity and negative outcomes, and instead used me and my
disability as a scapegoat for your gross incompetence and ineptitude. In doing so, you dangerously
created a false confidence that these people were 'protected from infection', and directly exposed
those with genuinely impaired immune systems to non-disabled individuals who were in fact still
very contagious. Every death in the disabled community post rollout is blood on the hands of those
who perpetuated this fraud.

The greatest insult is that this all occurred during a Royal Commission into Abuse of Disabled people.
Imagine the gall and complete ignorance displayed to literally use Disabled people (the vulnerable) as
leverage for compliance and to coerce citizens into taking a medical intervention that didn't prevent
transmission. I find it sickening that in a time of scientific and cultural enlightenment, that
government officials and those endorsed by said government believe it to be acceptable to use my
life story, my trauma and pain, my vulnerability and lived experience as a tool for public
manipulation. It's disgusting and I expect far better from our government bodies.

I do not, nor ever will, consent to governments using me a scapegoat to push false hope and flawed
health interventions on the Australian people. Blatantly manipulating people into taking a health
intervention to 'protect the vulnerable', knowing the entire time, these treatments did not stop
infection is the greatest travesty and fraud committed in my lifetime.

I demand accountability for this and believe we must have a Royal Commission to address the
Pandemic response. Without a full investigation, this harmful behaviour will no doubt be replicated
in the future.
