I am a                      lin a      public hospital and also have           children in           school.

My feedback regarding the role played by ATAGI and the TGA on vaccinations is that apart from the
initial year of the vaccines in 2021, the vaccine programme has been terrible with respect to children.
Whilst I can have boosters myself, my children who were vaccinated as soon as they could be, can no
longer receive boosters and are sitting ducks at school for catching covid and bringing it home to all of
us again. The lack of vaccines for under 5s is also abysmal when this is available in countries overseas,
and boosters for the over 5s are available overseas but not in Australia. Parents should be given the
choice to pay for booster vaccinations for their children. Children are also not immune to potential
harmful effects of covid and especially given they are at school most days (everyone knows schools
are petri dishes for illness? Precovid...yet somehow we were supposed to believe not for covid, one of
the most contagious viruses out there after measles?). I have had my boosters on time and as advised
every time, yet last year we were left facing the Christmas wave with more than 6 months since the last
booster as an adult and my children were about 9 months post vaccinatioi^On^chil^braugh^ovid
home from school at the end of year and we all got covid, I
                                               although thankfully now resolved. However, leaving those
who did everything they were told to do in the form of getting boosters vulnerable last Christmas without
boosters was a terrible oversight in public health policy. Australia has also been too slow to order the
updated monovalent vaccines this Christmas as well, and only appeared to do so after public pressure,
and will be too late for Christmas and other high risk events.

The government is now running a vaccines only strategy - with no public health mitigations, no public
health messaging, no encouraging or requiring non-vaccine strategies such as masks in hospitals,
masks on public transport, mitigations in schools, no ventilation ins schools and no push to increase
public indoor ventilation standards. Except the vaccine only strategy in Australia is one without universal
up to date vaccines. This is abysmal and needs to change now and for future pandemics. The mixed
messaging around vaccines for children and under 5s (by implication that the risks of the vaccine are
worse than the risks of the virus) and thus contributing to vaccine hesitancy, will have a negative impact
on vaccinations for other current diseases and future potential pandemic diseases as well..

The personal impact of the decisions made by the National Cabinet last year (October 22) when they
decided that covid was no longer going to be treated as exceptional has been disastrous for my
immediate family and wider family.                                           got covid after all the mitigations
were removed and after people were allowed to spread the virus in the community. This decision by
National Cabinet to no longer treat covid as exceptional was not based on the science, as increasingly
the scientific literature last year was highlighting all the ways that covid is unlike other respiratory illness,
and indeed covid is not just a respiratory illness, and exceptionally bad for you to get over and over. It
is unlike the flu, demonstrated in multiple studies that covid’s impact on the body is not just respiratory
but vascular, and can impact multiple organs. Covid enters the body through a different set of cells to
other respiratory viruses as well - ACE-2 receptors are spread throughout the body in important sites
that can not afford to be damaged or repeatedly damaged by the virus. Recent evidence out of Canada
shows that the rate of post Covid symptoms increases as the number of infections you have had
increases. In any case, the sheer prevalence of covid year around is different to the flu.

It was under Albanese that the National Cabinet decided to call covid unexceptional without scientific
evidence. Opposition leaders need to be held to account when they are in power if they do a sudden
about turn on important health issues such as pandemic management.

Regarding PRE in the future the federal government needs to have sufficient stockpiles or at least the
local manufacturing resources to ensure that all healthcare workers have access to safe and effective
PRE - i.e. respirator masks. It was absolutely ridiculous that there were insufficient (surgical) masks at
the start of the pandemic for HCW to safely nurse and care for covid positive patients. Thank goodness
there was that initial shutdown, otherwise healthcare workers in Australia would have been in a
bloodbath of covid infections and we would have seen multiple deaths of healthcare workers
prevaccine, as seen overseas. The other disturbing thing is that there now seems to be a push in
people’s collective recollections to retrospectively rewrite the lockdown as unnecessary (because the
lockdowns worked and saved Australians from the fate seen overseas). As a                                I
couldn’t sleep at night in late Feb and March 2020 before lockdown, as I could see what was happening
in overseas hospitals such as northern Italy, then the UK and USA, knowing that it would not be long
before this catastrophic spread of the virus started in Australia. There was also a lot of public and social
pressure as a                     to
                                                                                                when Covid
was first hitting, but there was not the proper information being given to                            about
transmission so that they could protect themselves, and the PRE provided was mostly nonexistent and
at worst ineffective because it wasn’t the correct level. This issue with PRE continued at the end of 2021
and the start of the Omicron wave in Australia.

                                                                               It was the stuff of bad
movies come to real life. Both federal and state governments need to be ensuring this situation never
happens again. We may not be so lucky next time, in terms of being able to keep the virus at bay for
nearly two years. Indeed                     in Melbourne were not so lucky in 2020.

The Federal Health department could improve Public Health messaging by treating covid like it has
treated other high prevalence health issues. We need messaging and advertising re covid like the
campaigns for wearing sun protection for skin cancer, wearing condoms for STD, doing the routine
cancer checks, and childhood vaccinations. There is virtually a complete silence from the Federal
Health department in the form of advertising or public health messaging. There needs to be messages
loud and clearly presented to the public about risks of long covid, risks of organ damage (e.g. heart,
brain, kidney, diabetes, autoimmune conditions), risks of repeated infections (see recent Canadian
study) and what can be done to reduce risk of catching covid in the first place. It is almost as though
the government wants to spread covid through the community. Covid is being treated exceptionally,
and unlike messaging about cancer prevention and early detection, unlike the messaging that was so
effective in Australia in our response to HIV/AIDS. We have a wonderful track record for HIV and covid
during the first two years - which we have now squandered. Public Health is missing in action on covid.
There is so much we could be doing to reduce transmission and reduce the number of repeat infections
we are all subjected to. There is no evidence that repeated infections makes you more immune to later
variants of covid. The upcoming new variant and this current wave is evidence of that. We were told
last year that we were going to get hybrid immunity from various state health officers - but this year that
message has morphed into how our immunity has waned. We have been sold the wrong story about
covid. International data is not supporting the idea of reduced infections after 4 years, there may be
less deaths but the risks of long term damage and long covid even with mild initial illness remains, and
is increasing with each exposure and each variant.

The impact of the government’s vaccine eligibility policy on my family has resulted in an extremely
stressful situation. We are having to live with unmitigated spread and transmission of the virus in the
community but we are not provided with vaccines for children. This places me as an adult carer at
increased risk as well. Children have to attend compulsory school but they are not able to get boosters
(unless medically at risk); children were sent back to school in 2022 during the height of the omicron
disaster, so that many children got infected before they had a chance to have both, or even one,
vaccine; and parents are now left thinking the vaccines don't work (because the child vaccines are not
matched to the current variant - and communication around this has been abysmal leaving parents to
conclude they don’t work). For parents that are aware of the long term risks we face with covid
infections, the lack of vaccines for children is incredibly stressful, while being simultaneously persecuted
by the education department policies around attendance at school. This puts those parents in a terrible
situation of being unable to protect their children from potential harms, while the government is
essentially legally mandating infection of children through compulsory school attendance without
making any real attempt to reduce risk. Often that risk reduction strategy could be as simple as opening
classroom windows.

Schools have not been made safe. Aside from some initial half hearted attempts in NSW to assure
parents that schools were safe (likely made on false premises) - there has been no real attempt to
continue to try to reduce covid transmission in schools. There is a ventilation policy for natural ventilation
in^^lpublic schools but I doubt any school is properly following it. There has been no real attempt to
ensure air quality in classrooms is at safe levels to reduce the likelihood of transmission in schools.
There is much evidence to indicate school classroom air quality is a health and learning hazard. There
needs to be enforced indoor air quality standards for schools implemented at a federal level. School
bus excursions are another place where air quality is very poor. There needs to be clear and
enforced public ventilation standards for school buses. This is an issue that if addressed now for covid,
will also help for future pandemics, as the infrastructure will already be in place.
2022 was the year of terrible transmission of covid in schools, while the government essentially stood
by and watched, something future generations will likely condemn. 2023 has been the year of terrible
transmission in healthcare and hospitals. The current approach by^^Bhealth merely recommending
staff wear masks near patients is a terrible failure, both a failure of duty of care to patients and has
failed to get staff to mask with patients during a wave. Masks should be compulsory in healthcare during
waves at least. Schools need clean air standards. Public buildings and public transport need air
ventilation standard guidelines to reduce airborne transmission risk. Costs of clean air enforcement and
expenditure now will be repaid by reduced long term healthcare costs and lost productive time. We
have world renowned experts in air quality in Australia but we are not listening to them, for example
                    aerosol physicist.

Recommendations for future pandemics - the future is now because we still have high levels of covid
circulating and infecting people in the community, resulting in a current pandemic of post covid
sequelae. We need to address this issue here and now.

We also need an independent Royal Commission into the Australian Pandemic Response, not an
Inquiry that is being run by people who have been directing the Covid-19 Response through ongoing
public commentary and submissions to government. This is not independent.
