14 December 2023
An Anonymous Australian's Submission to the
CO VID-19 Response Inquiry


1 - Key Health Response Measures:

The TGA had no logical reason to remain silent or otherwise demonise and ban
early prevention treatments such as Vitamin D, Zinc, Vitamin C and especially
well-proven antivirals such as Ivermectin (4 billion doses administered
worldwide) and Hydroxychloroquine (years of being routinely prescribed
before travel to locations with malaria).

The excuse 'there were no clinical trials to prove their effectiveness against C -
19' was absolute nonsense as the same could be said for EVERY drug being
'recommended'. At least all these were known to be safe to take!

Many lives and much suffering could have been averted for countless people if
they had had the TGA and it's related medical arms making known
SOMETHING TO DO BESIDES GOING TO HOSPITAL AND BEING SENT HOME
UNTILTHEY WERE SICKER.

By all accounts, it appears to be a deliberate tactic to 'drive' people to the
experimental injection without any alternative being approved or mentioned.

And if people DID GET SICKER AT HOME, at hospital they were immediately
forced onto ventilators and the failed Ebola trial drug - Remdesivir.

With these draconian - even sinister - protocols, I assert the TGA killed MORE
people than the flu variants of C-19. Of course, the government has obfuscated
any meaningful data to prove their culpability.




                                         1
For shame. These faceless bureaucrats and their overpaid department heads
should face trial for murder.



2 - Broader Health Support:

If it wasn't so heartbreaking, it is laughable how few vaccine-injury
compensation claims have been paid.

It's obvious the government is hiding the extent of the carnage of these
experimental gene therapies by either delaying or denying Australian's claims.
Or promulgating the cause (excuse) of something never proven to exist called
'long covid'.

Who do these elected officials, political parties and bureaucrats serve?
It certainly isn't the suffering Australian public.

For shame on their inaction and gaslighting.



3 - Mechanisms to better target specific groups:

Really? Because billions were spent on every possible social media, television
program, newspaper and influencer, my comment is the opposite.

Stop telling people what to do, banning alternative methods and then coercing
people while frightening the daylights out of them 24/7 with government
messaging (propaganda) campaigns. Just look at the destructive results now to
mental health - especially young people.

Who or what did our elected and unelected representatives really serve? The
amendments to the WHO Pandemic Treaty are the road to more of the same
treatment but they can then slip off the hook of responsibility. 'We just
followed orders' while selling out their own people to be treated like cattle.

They are self-serving cowards. For shame.




                                        2
