   To: Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,
   PO Box 6500
   Canberra ACT 2600

Re:    Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Terms of Reference

Dear Officer,

SUBMISSION

Introduction

The Department of the Prime Minister and the Cabinet (the Department) have invited
submissions for the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the
Inquiry).

This submission is by private individual (retired health professional) Stan Beattie which has given me
the skills to see the abuses of Human Rights being perpetrated by Government agencies both State
and Federal in regard to the handling of the Covid incident, but left me free of any of the pressure
applied by those agencies to comply with their guidelines (mandates)
Australia has been integral in the establishment of the international Human Rights Declaration
specifically to protect those rights but everything Australia did in regard to Covid violated our Human
Rights. Nobody has the right to mandate the injection of foreign material into your body.
You can not give informed consent to injections of trial. ( untested) Unproven pharmaceutical
products, this violates the definition of informed consent.
Australia should and must be free to make our own assessment of the risks associated with and and
all health situation. Our being coerced into the acceptance of the assessment of the risk from Covid
by the WHO, and the pharmaceutical industry, who both have conflicts of interest in such decisions
shouldn't have occurred.
Australia following the narrative perpetrated by WHO and the Elites behind the Scenario 2020 just
demonstrated how weak and totally irresponsible the Australian Health Authority is in making a
rational risk assessment.
The TGA adoption of the nonsense issued by the FDA in regards to the testing, safety, effectiveness of
the Covid injection is again demonstrating the irresponsibility of the agencies.
A fair review of the testing for the injections would have shown they were neither safe not effective
A basic review of the excess deaths in Australia and across the world as shown by the actuarial
associations gives a very strong causal link between the injections and the number of deaths
A basic review of the number of youth dying of heart health issues since the Covid mandated
treatment should have stopped the program more than a year ago.
Follow the money is often very informative into the true agenda behind and scheme. Who has got
exceedingly rich as a result of this adopted protocol? This has never been about the health of people
either here in Australia or anywhere across the globe. This was always about more money and more
control for the Corporatocracy.
Your review should show how Australia failed totally in the management of this issue, which should
never have been a pandemic and never triggered emergency procedures, that allowed much of the
abuse of people to occur

Stan Beattie
