In this submission I would like to briefly address the following terms of reference



The entire "Covid 19 pandemic response" was handled very poorly by the Australian government.
The coercion and fear tactics that the government was doing on a daily basis to ALL Australians is
inexcusable.

The biggest of the coercion and fear tactics was the mandating of covid vaccinations for many
Australians which I was one of. I lost 2 nursing jobs because of vaccine mandates.

The Prime Minister that was in office at the time was Scott Morrison and he stated publicly that covid
vaccinations were not mandatory and that Australia did not have a mandatory vaccination policy. My
understanding was any federal law overrules state however this was not the case

As at 30th September 2021 when the deadline was to receive a Covid vaccine to be able to work and
earn an income, I had been a registered nurse for nearly 11 years. I had been employed with
        my entire career as a Registered Nurse. I also worked for a private GP clinic at the time for 6
years. I was dedicated to my job, working shift work, public holidays, Christmas day etc. I missed
many of family and friends functions due to working. Patient care unfortunately doesn't finish at
5pm on a Friday when all of my family and friends are then enjoying their weekend/holidays off. I
showed up to work every day through the pandemic while friends were able to stay at home and be
paid as their workplaces were shut or they had option to work from home. I never had such option.

In 2021,       health mandated that every healthcare worker was to have 2 covid injections to
continue to work and it is still in their employment policy to this date. At the time, I couldn't believe
what was happening. The covid virus had only been with us for around 18 months at this stage and
they had developed a 'vaccination' for it and now it was mandated. Clearly the covid vaccines were
experimental as there was no long-term trials but I was forced to choose between taking this
experimental vaccine or loose my job. The Nuremberg code states that it is illegal to force any person
to receive an experimental injection.

The Australian Immunisation Handbook also states that vaccinations can only be given with informed
consent. How can informed consent be given with no proper data for short and long term effects of
said vaccination?

I could not give informed consent therefore declined to receive at covid vaccine. I was then not
allowed to work. I was lucky that my manager at the time let me use my annual leave however I have
other nurse friends who were denied using any leave. Another thing that didn't make sense. We
were all treated badly but so differently. It was all   health!!! My leave did come to an end in
December 2021 and I was then terminated in March 2022. Before September 2021, I was apparently
a "valuable" employee, on the front line of this apparently 'deadly pandemic' and then I was treated
like a piece of garbage and thrown away.

I then had to find employment elsewhere to keep money coming in as the bills do not stop
unfortunately. I feel I have been fortunate in that I have survived through however I have Friends
who have not and have had to sell houses etc to be able to get by.

There are many questions that need answers from this enquiry

    •        Why was the definition of a pandemic altered not long before the emergence of covid 19?
    •        Why was the definition of a vaccine altered not long before the emergence of covid 19?
•   Why were decisions that were made by 'health officials' and the government not evidence
    and did not follow best practice models?
•   Why was the use of ivermectin, which is a nobel prize winning drug with the administration
    of over 4.6 billion doses and hydroxychloroquine initially suppressed, despite the fact that
    ivermectin was being issued to the Indian public by the Indian government, and down the
    track also being given to Australian patients. Maybe because its cheap and effective? No gain
    for the pharmaceutical companies there.
•   Why was remdesivir used in Australian hospitals? Because it is an expensive drug and earns
    pharmaceutical companies lots of money.
•   We were told initially that vaccination was the only way of stopping transmission. It clearly
    did NOT!
•   If the vaccinations were so 'safe and effective', why were the pharmaceutical companies
    exempt from any liability of adverse reactions from their products? Im sure if a car
    manufacturer produced a car that harmed and killed 1 person, that car company would be
    liable for that. Why are they not held accountable for their sub-standard product?
•   If the vaccinations were so 'safe and effective', why do we have a compensation scheme for
    ones who have suffered from an adverse reaction from said vaccinations. Might I add, this
    scheme is difficult to access and requires very specific requirements.
•   Why were Australians denied crossing state borders for healthcare which sadly resulted in
    the death of an unborn baby when the mother was denied entry to Queensland
•   Why were people required to have a PCR test and this was the 'gold standard' of diagnosis
    even though the inventor of the test stated that it should not be used to diagnose Covid 19
•        Why were competent Doctors such            suspended for voicing a rational opinion
    with supporting evidence? That does not sound scientific and unbiased to me. That sounds
    as though someone in authority has an agenda.



I truly hope that the panel that you have chosen to review the evidence is independent and has
the appropriate knowledge to investigate without bias and pay offs.
