COVID-19 Response Inquiry
My submission consists of a few brief comments on a few points of Australia’s covid
response, as follows:
   1. The advent of covid-19 in early 2020 was seized on by some political leaders to
      institute a police state where basic freedoms were trashed, ane enforced by all-too-
      willing police forces. Most notably in Victoria, but closely aped by Western Australia
      and even the federal government, which barred a champion tennis player from the
      Australian Open on the most ridiculous pretext. None of those overlords remain
      today, they have retired, or been booted out, and good riddance. They all presided
      over one of the darkest chapters in Australian history, a chapter that must never be
      repeated.
   2. The performance of the medical profession and associated bureaucracies was
      appalling. Few called for caution in the all-out assault on lockdowns of freedoms,
      and yet had they done so, state premiers and police commissioners may have
      withheld their heavy hand. They pushed the experimental covid vaccines that
      appeared from big pharma within a year of the covid outbreak, and we now have a
      heavily vaccinated population watching a dramatic increase in unexplained deaths
      since 2021 and wondering -
      Am I in danger? Are my kids in danger? Have I passed something genetic to my
      babies born since I was vaccinated?
      Not only did the medical profession leap to support the lockdown state, they did not
      question the motives and procedures employed by big pharma to any extent
      whatever. The result - a population unsure of what happened, many vaccinated
      against their will to hold their jobs, vowing never again to touch a genetically
      designed and manufactured vaccine or booster. The profession’s abysmal
      performance on government responses to covid, and on the risks and efficacy of the
      covid vaccines has opened a divide between them and the community they were
      meant to serve, but failed.
   3. Most of us can point to examples of a worsening of the bonds of society triggered by
      government mandates and prosecutions of programs, a situation that lingers to this
      day:
          • The right of people to decide to not subject themselves to experimental
             vaccines was not honoured, and was in fact punished - for example, they
             were barred from licensed premises, and this fractured small-town sporting
             and social clubs, which lost some vital people they could ill-offord;
          • Non-vaccinated people were viewed with distrust by the vaccinated, and
             shunned in many cases.
One wonders whether the drivers for these lockdowns of basic freedoms was genuine fear of
the unknown, opportunity to exercise authority, or a desire to follow the world leaders in a
push towards one world government. But what resulted from covid in Australia was that
good government in a democratic society was overturned by the very people tasked with the
mission, in Abraham Lincoln’s words, to serve their country with:
           “government of the people, by the people, and for the people”


End of submission
