15 December 2023



COVID-19 Response Inquiry Secretariat
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
PO Box 6500
CANBERRA ACT 2600

Via email: COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.qov.au




Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Inquiry Panel

Adelaide Airport Limited and Parafield Airport Limited (“together AAL”) as operators of Adelaide and Parafield
Airports are pleased to make a submission to the Commonwealth Government's Covid-19 Response Inquiry
(Inquiry). AAL welcomes the Inquiry and the opportunities it presents to improve response measures in the event
of future pandemic events.

This submission can be read in conjunction with the submission from the Australian Airports Association (AAA).

Summary

Border control harmonisation is critical. The Commonwealth Government must use its constitutional quarantine
power to take control of national quarantine arrangements in future pandemic or significant health events. This is
required to ensure consistency in response and to ensure decisions of national interest are made in the interests
of Australia as a whole - balancing all relevant national public health, social, economic and other impacts. The
relevant mechanism to enable this already exists, including domestic border controls through use of the Biosecurity
Act 2015 (Cth) (formerly the Quarantine Act 1920) (Cth) under the Australian Constitution (s51(ix)).

Background

Adelaide Airport is the aviation gateway to South Australia. Since May 1998 AAL has been custodian of a 99 year
operating lease for Adelaide and Parafield Airports from the Commonwealth Government. Adelaide Airport is the
fifth-largest domestic and international airport in Australia processing more than 8 million passengers on an
annualised basis. Adelaide Airport is the state's largest single site employment precinct directly employing more
than 10,000 people on and off airport and contributing to the generation of a further 12,700 jobs. The airport
contributes $3 billion to the South Australian economy, equivalent to 3.1 per cent of Gross State Product. Adelaide
Airport has transitioned from an aviation and infrastructure facility to a broad- based economic activity node,
ehcompassing a variety of aviation and non-aviation services, facilities and developments. It is also a critical
transport hub connecting South Australia with global and domestic markets. We are committed to investing in our
infrastructure and will be investing $1 billion in capital investment over the next five years, of which over half will
be on major aviation infrastructure projects.

Parafield Airport is South Australia's premier general aviation airport and is a major world standard international
training airport. Pilots trained at Parafield Airport go on to fly international services to and from Adelaide Airport.
The provision of commercial, retail and industrial activities contributes to the viability of the airport as a business
enterprise and provide an economic core and employment centre for the northern suburbs of Adelaide and beyond.

AAL is owned by large superannuation funds who have held ownership since privatisation with significant numbers
of members holding an indirect investment in our airports to support them in their retirements. Our investors are
ready to support the long-term infrastructure required for our airports and understand the critical importance of
aviation and tourism to the Australian economy.




                                                                       Adelaide Airport Limited    T +61 8 8308 9211
      k Adelaide                                                       1 James Schofield Drive
                                                                       Adelaide Airport
                                                                                                   F +61 8 8308 9311
                                                                                                   adelaideairport.com.au
        Airport                                       OFFICIAL
                                                                       South Australia 5950        ABN 78 075 176 653
Discussion

Pandemic related restrictions on borders were implemented by eight different State and Territory Governments to
seek to protect the public from the adverse health impacts of the virus. The varying local positions on border
closures were implemented with the best of intent, but this led to a fractured nation. Our approach created
unnecessary public uncertainty and anxiety around the risk of being locked in or out of a State or Territory at short
notice (in some instances with immediate effect).

COVID-19 had an extraordinary and enduring impact on the aviation sector including employment, skills and
training and the economy. For example, at the peak of the pandemic, Adelaide Airport's traffic fell by 96 per cent.
Australia's approach to aviation restrictions was unique globally. In every major economy, aviation fared better
than in Australia due to the inconsistency in Australia's border restrictions.

Investors in control of global capital now consider Australia differently, recognising and pricing in sovereign risk
relating to domestic (border) regulation inconsistency. The Australian public ultimately pay for the cost of this risk
while it remains unaddressed. The opportunity exists for the Commonwealth Government through this Inquiry to
make meaningful changes to its response plans for future pandemics or significant health events so that this does
not occur again.

The solution is simple, the Commonwealth Government can use existing quarantine powers, enshrined under
section 51 (ix) of the Australian Constitution. Section 477(1) of the Biosecurity Act 2015 (formerly the Quarantine
Act) already provides the Commonwealth Health Minster with the power to take action to prevent or control the
spread of disease into part of an Australian territory. State borders could then be used as a tool by the
Commonwealth Government to use in a coordinated and consistent manner and in the best interests of the nation
as a whole. This would also reduce any conflict around overlapping Commonwealth/State responsibilities and
divisions between clinical health practitioners and public health policy makers.

The Commonwealth Government has rightly been given the power to regulate matters such as aviation and
quarantine. These are Commonwealth matters which transcend State borders and need to transcend local politics
and localised self-interest. The legislative and constitutional mechanisms already exist to protect Australians from
this occurring again and we urge the Commonwealth Government to regulate now to address the lingering risk of
lack of unity in a future pandemic or significant health event.

Conclusion

Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to the future of the aviation industry. It is vital that the Commonwealth
Government utilises its constitutional quarantine power to take control of national quarantine arrangements
including domestic border controls. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any queries in relation to the
above or require any additional information.

Yours sincerely
ADELAIDE AIRPORT




Brenton Cox
Managing Director




                                                          2

                                                      OFFICIAL
