                                                                                    Ph

                                                                         E.



15th December, 2023



To whom it may concern,



I write to you in relation to the proposed COVID-19 Response Inquiry.



I have been severely impacted by the actions of the Federal and State governments throughout the
COVID-19 pandemic. Residing in Victoria my entire life, I ended up moving states during the
pandemic to escape the unwarranted overreach of the Victorian government - the state became a
          Jthanks to Daniel Andrews.



Victorians were locked up in their homes for the best part of 2 years - Melbourne winning the title
of "the world's most locked-down city". Living alone at the time, I suffered greatly from anxiety and
depression because of this isolation, which completely changed me and still affects me today. I lost
my job due to vaccine mandates, simply because I believed we are individuals who have the right to
choose what goes into our bodies, and because we did not have enough information about the
safety of these vaccines. I am a loyal and hardworking individual who has worked non-stop my entire
adult life - but (like many others) suddenly found myself out of work for 8 MONTHS, until these in­
humane mandates were dropped. I was working at                          the time and knew of many
emergency staff who were also stood down and sacked due to these mandates. I attended protests
               where peaceful regular Australian citizens who just wanted their jobs back, were met
by riot police squads and blasted with pepper-spray, tear gas, and rubber bullets. Never had I
imagined I would witness these scenes in our city, or our country. The actions of our State and
Federal leaders could not be further away from democracy.



A Royal Commission MUST be held - to hold State and Federal governments to account for their
absurd over-reach and anti-democratic actions throughout the pandemic. A simple inquiry which the
State leaders are exempt from, is not fair on the people of Australia who have suffered so greatly.
Accountability and justice MUST occur! An election promise of the current Federal Government was
to provide a Royal Commission and not simply a toothless and inept inquiry that does not hold the
State leaders accountable in any way. This same government is now voting to block its own election
promise. This is disgraceful and a clear attempt to protect its own party from their horrific actions
during the pandemic, both at State and Federal levels. Anything short of a Royal Commission is just
not good enough.



The main issues I believe that need to be addressed in a Royal Commission are:



    •   How the Federal Governments allowed State governments / Premiers to run riot over their
        respective citizens, via massive over-reach of policies that had a profound and direct impact
        on us.

    •   At a federal level, the COVID-19 vaccines were not mandatory. At a state level, this was very
        different, and forced citizens to be excluded from society and employment if they expressed
        and retained their freedom to choose. This, in Australia?

    •   The TGA are quite clearly compromised by conflicts of interest (being 90% funded by
        pharmaceutical companies) and have acted disgracefully via the lack of independent testing
        performed on the vaccines. Basing approval on a novel vaccine based on a pharmaceutical
        company's fraudulent testing data, or on that of a foreign health agency, is nothing short of
        negligence and criminal.

    •   As the pandemic evolved and it has become clearer what so many Australians suspected
        from the outset - there has been no change of message from the government, or lessons
        learned. Admissions on the failure of the vaccines to sterilise, ineffectiveness of lockdowns
        and curfews lead me to believe Federal and State governments are hiding from the truth
        and unlikely to learn anything from a simple inquiry.

    •   The State governments were allowed to mandate a provisionally approved products on to its
        citizens. Manufacturer trial data showed significant cause for concern based on mortality
        and adverse event statistics. Despite attempts to have this data buried for 55 years, the
        average Joe could see that these products had risks. To allow them to be mandated on to
        the populace? No inquiry is sufficient to get to the bottom of this, a Royal Commission is
        clearly needed.

    •   Why did Australia order 255 million vaccine doses, for a population of 26 million? Was the
        plan to vaccinate every Australian 10 times for the one variant, or was this perhaps a waste
        of (circa $18b) taxpayer money?

    •   Are the terms of the vaccine purchases from the pharmaceutical companies ever going to be
        made public? Or is this still considered not in our best interests? One might suspect that the
        terms in in these contracts gave complete indemnity to the pharmaceutical companies,
        which would be unpopular to the public.

    •   The Federal government allowed the State's government responses to continue, despite
        being anti-democratic and technically illegal. Turning a blind eye to mandates, lockdowns
        and curfews which were all enforced without public health advice ever being presented.
    •   The above-mentioned health advice has still never been produced, and without a Royal
        Commission, will likely remain hidden. An ineffective inquiry will not have the power to
        uncover this information so we can better understand why these policies were enforced.

    •   Censoring of prominent scientists and every day citizens has been harmful and undemocratic
        for a 'free' country. It must be quite embarrassing when what was considered
        'misinformation' 3 years ago turned out to be accurate. Embarrassment aside, proper
        investigation into the censorship during the pandemic is clearly required. The proposed
        misinformation/disinformation bill is not in effect yet (nor will it stop people from their right
        to freedom of speech)


Finally, allowing just over 2 weeks for submissions to the COVID-19 response has not been
overlooked by this citizen - and many others. Nor has the time of year it has been provided when
people are at their busiest.

This short timeframe and distraction of the Australian people are obvious attempts to limit the
feedback to this inquiry. I sincerely hope this is both called out, and that it backfires! It is,
unfortunately, yet another attempt by the current government to 'run and hide' from its
responsibility to be open and truthful to the people it serves.

There are attempts to 'pass the buck' and go silent on the many failures during the COVID-19
response. Governments, health bodies and agencies have all had ZERO accountability during the
whole debacle.

By allowing this COVID-19 inquiry to continue without a Royal Commission is further criminal
negligence by this administration.

In summary, we deserve and demand a COVID-19 Royal Commission and will not stop lobbying our
local MP's and Senator's until this is achieved.



Sincerely,
