Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Submission

A Commonwealth Inquiry which excludes any unilateral actions by the States that constitute the
Commonwealth, is not a complete Inquiry. Prime Minister Albanese promised a full Royal
Commission into the COVID-19 Response during his election campaign. This promise should
be honoured.

There exists a potential conflict of interest in this Inquiry as one of the members of the review
panel is the Chair of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). CEPI led the
                   | push for development and production of COVID vaccine products. This
member was the principal reviewer in the influential Review of COVID-19 Vaccine and
Treatment Purchasing and Procurement, released to Health Minister Mark Butler on 19
September 20221.

The ‘COVID years’ (2020 to present) have been typified by extraordinary powers given to
Governments by themselves which were implemented in lockstep, the use of violence and
coercion against anyone who questioned the efficacy of the measures taken, and making life
altering decisions for the entire population based on questionable information.

Terms of Reference
Each or the Terms of Reference are addressed below.
1. Governance, including roles and responsibilities
      a. The ‘National Cabinet’ comprising the Executive of State and Federal governments
         is unconstitutional. It undermines our emergency laws which clearly prescribe the
         decision making processes and transparency measures which are designed to
         protect Australians in times like this.
      b. The ‘National Cabinet’ minutes have not been released to this day despite an FOI
         request for the minutes and subsequent successful appeal to the AAT by Senator
                         In fact, Justice White found ‘it could not be considered part of federal
         Cabinet because its members weren’t members of federal Parliament”23
      c. The Prime Minister was permitted to give himself a number of ministerial positions
         without objection from anyone, including the Governor General.
      d.          The Federal Government consented by silence to
               i. Border closures,
              ii. Inhumane and non-medical interventions,
             ill. State level mandates for an experimentally approved gene therapy,
                  violations of human rights and breeches of the Nuremberg Code.
          The Federal Government knew that State Governments were mandating medical
          experimentation. When interviewed on ABC Insiders, Greg Hunt admitted that 'The
          world is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial
          ever...



1 Review of COVID-19 Vaccine and Treatment Purchasing and Procurement
2 Why is the government debating a bill to keep National Cabinet secret? - ABC News
3 The guote starts at about 12:40 mark in the video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rgaTakfyfSU&t=33s&pp=ygUpZ3JIZvBodW50IGV4cGxhaW5z!HdoeSB0aGUgcH
JpbWUgbWluaXN0ZXI%3D
        e. Injured people were swept under the carpet and banned from online spaces where,
           according to the TGA, drug companies are supped to be scanning for those stories
           to build the safety profile of the medication.
            The Federal Government secretly censored social media during the pandemic, and
            removed people who talked about their gene-vaccine injuries, smearing them as
            ‘anti-vaxxers’.4


2. Key Health Response Measures
      a. An inversion of the medical regulatory system to create worse outcomes occurred
         by the banning of Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), both of which are
         cheap and effective treatments which we knew then and know now, reduce Covid-
         19 hospitalisations and death.
      b. The dismissing of these treatments was a necessary prerequisite to the emergency
         approval of the various Covid-19 therapies because of the requirement that ‘there is
         no adequate, approved, and available alternative to the product’.5
      c. Ninety six per cent (96%) of the funding for the Australian Therapeutic Goods
         Administration (TGA) comes from the pharmaceutical industry.67   8This in itself
         presents a conflict of interest which warrants investigation.
      d. The medical regulatory system was weaponised to achieve a political outcome.
         AHPRA harassed and threatened doctors who dissented to the governments stated
         position on Covid-19, known therapies (Ivermectin and HCQ), and the novel
         unknown gene therapies/
      e. The Federal Government failed to ensure that the emergency-approved mRNA
         based therapies were assessed as Genetically Modified Organisms and complied
         with the relevant safety standards.
          The Gene Technology Act 2000 states in section 10 that ‘deal with, in relation to a
          GMO, means the following:

              (g) import the GMO;
              (h) transport the GMO...’
              and includes the possession, supply or use of the GMO for the purposes of, or in the
              course of, a dealing mentioned in any of paragraphs (a) to (i)i
              Accordingly, the Office of Gene Technology Regulator was required to regulate
                   I and           in respect of transport and disposal.
        f.   The Australian Bureau of Statistics Deaths Australia reports for the past three years
             show the extraordinary increase (tens of thousands) in all-cause mortality that has
             occurred since the roll-out of the emergency-approved mRNA therapies. This fact
             should be attracting considerable attention from our government for an explanation,
             especially as they were so concerned about every single Covid-19 case,
             hospitalisation and death during the pandemic.9


4 https://www.health.gov.au/resources/foi-disclosure-loq/foi-3953-documents-related-to-covid-19-social-media-
spend-and-correspondence
5 Provisional determination eligibility criteria | Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)
6 Are drug regulators sufficiently independent from the companies they regulate? | BMJ
7 Refer to the "Covid-19 vaccination position statement under Previous Statements
Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency - Vaccination and immunisation information (ahpra.gov.au)
8 Gene Technology Act 2000 (legislation.gov.au)
9 Deaths, Australia, 2022 | Australian Bureau of Statistics (abs.gov.au)
3. Mechanisms to better target future responses
      a. The TGA has no idea how many people were killed and injured by the gene based
         therapeutics because the voluntary reporting system broke under censorship,
         propaganda and medical board bullying of health professionals. The following could
         be implemented to alleviate this.
                i. Education of how to use the Database of Adverse Event Notifications
                   (DAEN)
               ii. Use of the DAEN by doctors, hospitals patients, friends and relatives must
                   be encouraged to enable meaningful reporting and analysis. There must be
                   no active discouragement of reporting. A financial incentive to medical
                   professionals to report suspected adverse events could be a solution.
              ill. The TGA must investigate all adverse event reports to enable early
                   identification of safety signals.
              iv. Autopsies to be encouraged for anyone dying unexpectedly within 30 days of
                    injection to determine cause of death.
      b. If the number of adverse events is too great to all be investigated, consideration
         needs to be given to improving the ‘Provisional Registration’ process. This process
         currently lacks the rigour required to meet the safety standards of full registration. If
         a new class of drug is to be introduced it must undergo rigorous testing for safety
         efficacy and an analysis of its contents should be carried out.
      c. Any new mRNA therapies must be approved by the Office of Gene Technology
         Regulator.
      d.           A full inquiry into the excess all-cause mortality needs to be conducted.
      e. Rather than obeying the World Health Organisation’s directions, the Federal
         Government needs to have confidence in our own 2019 Australian Health
         Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza. One size does not fit all. If we had
         followed this plan the Australian economy would be in a much better position than it
         is now, and many of the small businesses that were bankrupted or had to close,
         would still be open.
      f. Follow the ‘real’ science; not something dreamt up by the WHO or our Public Health
         Officers.
      g.           The National Cabinet must be abandoned.
      h. Mandated medical treatment/procedures must not be allowed. Mandates are a
         violation of human rights and individual bodily autonomy.


   I request a full Royal Commission (as promised by Prime Minister Albanese) for a proper
   investigation into the following:
       •            Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts
       •            Vaccine mandates
       •            Vaccine injuries, including death
       •            Mask mandates and lockdowns
       • Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to prevent
           infection and transmission along with the denial of vaccine injuries and gas lighting
           of the injured.
       • The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the
           vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession.
•   Why the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza was not
    followed and who decided not to follow it, causing much hardship.
