           Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission



                                                                                                13/12/2023



This submission is taken largely from that submitted by                          as I think he raised many
significant issues that need to be addressed by the inquiry. He is for example correct when he states the
following:




Referring to specific terms of reference he goes on:

Re. this




    1.     The refusal to allow Australian citizens to return home at the time of crisis cuts at the heart of
           citizenship and represents a shocking breach of faith with the Australian public.
    2.     The National Cabinet combining the executive branches of State and Federal government is a
           fiction, has no basis in the Constitution, and ..undermines the rule of law including our
           emergency laws which lay out the decision making process and transparency
           measures...designed to protect Australian people in moments exactly like these.
    3.     The Prime Minister being permitted to give himself a plethora of Ministerial positions with no one,
           including the Governor General, apparently objecting at all, sets a dangerous precedent... and
           makes a mockery of the Westminster system we believe we live under.
    4.     The Federal Government consenting by silence to the border closures and other inhumane non­
           medical interventions, up to and including standing by as children died from lack of basic medical
           care as a result is a stain on our government and nation.
    5.     The Federal Government consenting by silence to State level mandates for an experimental
           gene therapy, violates human rights, breeched the Nuremberg Code and represent the
           Government assuming it has total power over every individual's body. The fact that government
           did not object in the strongest possible terms to the very notion of mandated medical
           experimentation speaks volumes and shows the importance of holding this inquiry.




{ FILENAME}                                         Page 1 of 3
And this




             6. The dismissal, deriding and then banning of know, cheap, effective treatments which were
                 then, and are now Known without a doubt to reduce Covid-19 hospitalisations and deaths
                 when used early and in appropriate combinations, notably Hydroxychloroquine and
                 Ivermectin in their respective triple therapies, represents an inversion of the medical
                 regulatory system, where the system was used to create Worse health outcomes.
             7. Given the known efficacy of Hydroxychloroquine in reducing Covid-19 hospitalisations and
                 deaths the seizing and destruction of a large quantity of it brought into the country
                 privately by Clive Palmer and donated to the public makes the Federal Government
                 directly responsible for at least some of the Covid-19 deaths that occurred since.
             8. The fact that the dismissal of known safe and effective treatments was a necessary pre­
                 requisite to the emergency approval of the various novel mRNA based therapies because
                 of the requirement that “there is no adequate, approved and available alternative to the
                 product” calls into question the purported professional independence of the regulatory
                 bodies who dismissed the proven therapies.
             9. AHPRA’s threatening and harassing doctors who dissented with the governments
                 stated position on either Covid-19 known therapies such as HOC or Ivermectin or novel
                 gene therapies such as the disastrous mRNA therapies represents the turning of the
                 medical regulatory system AGAINST the People of Australia.
             10. Federal Government's failure to ensure that the emergency-approved mRNA based
                 therapies were assessed as the Genetically Modified Organism they are and complied
                 with the relevant safety standards with regards to pollutant DNA is a failure of duty of
                 care and has already led to lawsuits and may yet lead to considerable compensation
                 payouts for those harmed by these unapproved GMO's
             11. The fact that a motion to investigate the extraordinary levels of excess deaths currently
                 being observed in Australia (and other highly vaccinated countries) was repeatedly
                 defeated in Federal Parliament is yet another mark of SHAME that needs to be explained
                 to the people of this country.

Finally,




    1.     By April 2020 it was known based on data from Italy, Sweden and Israel that Covid-19 was a
           high risk for elderly and infirm and as age dropped and health improved it became a negligible
           risk for the vast majority of the population. This was never taken into account in any of the
           non-medical interventions such as border closures and more.

    2.     Existing therapies known to be safe (multiple sources of irrefutable evidence, very early on)
           should never be banned from Australians. The banning of Hydroxychloroquine and
           Ivermectin was a violation of the rights of Australians to access medical care, a violation of
           the doctor-patient relationship that led to a loss of trust that will likely never be regained.

    3.     The withholding of any early treatment from people testing positive with Covid-19 may well have
           worsened their prognoses or even ultimately led to their death at the hands of hospitals applying
           inappropriate treatments at the wrong stages of their illness.

    4.     The Federal Government should never be silent in the face of States violation of Australian
           Citizens Human Rights.

    5.     Governments both State and Federal should be required to release all working information from
           meetings held at taxpayers' expense and during which decisions are taken that directly affect
           taxpayers.



{ FILENAME}                                        Page 2 of 3
    6.   Governments both State and Federal must act in accordance with their respective constitutions
         and comply with all requirements ofchecks, balances and transparency. The artificial construct
         known as “The National Cabinet” must be abandoned and minutes from the Covid era (at least)
         released in full.

    7.   As a matter of principle, NO GOVERNMENT in Australia, State or Federal should EVER BE
         ALLOWED to mandate medical procedures on its citizens. The believed safety,
         effectiveness or necessity of the intervention is completely irrelevant. When it comes to medicine
         Either you get FULL INFORMED CONSENT or YOU DON’T DO IT. NO Exceptions. Given
         that the package inserts for these mRNA experimental gene therapies were and apparently still
         are entirely blank... NO Australian who got the injections has EVER Given Informed Consent.

There are many more Issue to be raised and many people who need to be held accountable for their
decisions and actions which led to the deaths and injury of significant numbers of Australians.

I truly hope this inquiry is allowed to be of consequence and not a mere ‘tick in the box'.




{ FILENAME}                                       Page 3 of 3
