                     Individual Submission: COVID-19 Royal Commission Terms of Reference Inquiry
                                          Submitted: 12.01.2024, |


As an Australian, I would like to acknowledge and provide thanks to the Senate Standing Committee on Legal and
Constitutional Affairs for the opportunity to provide a submission to this COVID-19 Royal Commission inquiry.

As an Australian, who has contributed to the Australian economy as a tax paying member of society since the age
o                    never being a burden on society, but working with integrity, to support others through many
forms of community services, such as working with individuals requiring complex support with housing,
employment, case management and education, I have always worked for the greater good, and believe I have
contributed to this great country on a multitude of levels.

From my thirty years of dedication to the social sciences/services, and as an adult educator/researcher, I recognise
the imperativeness and importance of a Royal Commission being held in Australia, as to ensure that a
comprehensive and detailed analysis of all aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic response in Australia is undertaken.
Thus, ensuring all future responses are managed, without compromising the human rights of all Australians.

Although an Inquiry has been called for, regarding the COVID-19 Response, this is not sufficient, as the Australian
population have witnessed and experienced the formidable effects of a response that removed individual human
rights, to participate in society, earn an income and maintain their lifestyle, support their families and for many,
became unable to provide a safe home for their families, due to the restrictions placed upon them, through un­
justifiable and unconscionable vaccine mandates.

As stipulated on the Australian Government web page (AG, 2023) n) "A Royal Commission, is recognised as being
the highest form of inquiry on matters of public importance." Hence, given that, the COVID-19 response has
impacted Australians so tremendously, on a multitude of levels, and in particular the encroachment of mandates,
on the human rights of all Australians, with many individuals being personally persecuted, through a media and
political onslaught, where individuals who made a personal decision, to not participate in the Experimental Vaccine
Program were shamed, ostracized and restricted in their everyday lives through un-justified restrictions, mandates
and curfews. Henceforth, through the loss of their employment and individual rights to participate in society, many
have lost their source of financial security, ability to generate an income, resulting in the loss of secure housing,
inability to gain/re-gain employment, loss of access to services and social isolation. Thus, resulting in one of the
biggest increases in Australia, ever seen, of mental health related illness and suicide (ABC, 2023) (2).

The COVID-19 Response has costed Australians mentally, physically, psychologically, economically, and spiritually.
Hence, just the mandates and restrictions (lockdowns, curfews, travel restrictions and vaccine passports), have
massively impacted every aspect of people's lives. The impacts have been devastating for individuals,
communities, and businesses alike. Most have not recovered, and it is not likely they will, the impacts will be
experienced for generations to come.

Through proceeding with a Royal Commission, this would demand a detailed audit of every aspect of the COVID-19
response, and so it should. This process would make transparent, all actions, information and documentation
associated with every aspect of this response. It would summon documents, contracts, witnesses, and evidence
would be critically reviewed under oath, hearings would permit robust debate, discussion and analysis and public
hearings, which is demanded by the Australian people.

Although there are numerous key considerations that must be included within the terms of reference for a COVID -
19 Royal Commission. This submission focuses on two areas that must be in the terms of reference for a COVID-19
Royal Commission:




1 | P age
    1.   https://www.royalcommission.gov.au/about-royal-commissions

    2.   https://www.abc.net.au/news/2023-10-05/abs-data-shows-mental-health-anxiety-depression-rising/102928618
                     Individual Submission: COVID-19 Royal Commission Terms of Reference Inquiry
                                          Submitted: 12.01.2024, |


1. This submission focuses on the importance of maintain the Human Rights of all Australians within any
   emergency.

This submission is based the experiences of Australians, throughout the COVID-19 Response and discusses how the
COVID-19 Response impacted the Human Rights of countless Australians.

  When one discusses the human rights of all Australians, one may like to consider my argument in the context
  of "Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs." Every action that was taken during the COVID-19 response ignored the
  foundations of this well documented psychological model.
  https://www.simplypsychology.org/author/saulmcleod (November 24, 2023).

  Self­               Individuals were, and continue to be, impacted immensely, by both vaccine mandates and the
  Actualization       restrictions put in place to stop individuals participating in society. Individuals lost their
                      purpose to pursue their potential, as well respected and regarded individuals (within their
                      professions), were ridiculed and gas-lighted in the media and by public servants, and
                      Australians were encouraged to be cruel in isolating anyone who did not take the
                      Experimental Vaccine. Individuals who have been integral in their personal and professional
                      conduct were sacked from their positions of employment and the reasons being 'misconduct.'
                      Individuals who have studied and been committed employees, were punished for a decision,
                      which was their human right.
  Self-Esteem         The mandates and restrictions have had an enormous impact on the welfare of all
                      Australians. Many have lost their confidence in their public servants, their colleagues,
                      friends, and family, as the media and many public servants, community members, destroyed
                      respectful relationships by creating segregation and creating un-warranted fear. The media
                      and public servant fear campaign has impacted the psychological, spiritual, economic, and
                      physical well-being of countless Australians. Individuals feared losing their employment, and
                      although did not agree with the mandates, were placed in a position of no choice, which is
                      coercion. Managers/Businesses were informed they would be fined if they or their staff were
                      not vaccinated, and the employer/employee relationship, stepped over boundaries that
                      should never be possible. Individuals were pressured, ridiculed, and bullied, yet this
                      behaviour became an excepted norm, yet these are behaviours, which would have ended in a
                      legal battle only a year before.
  Love and            The mandates, restrictions, curfews, travel restrictions, and punishment of those who chose
  belonging           to not take the Experimental Vaccine has obliterated the foundations of family, friendships,
                      love, and compassion of others within the Australian landscape. So many individuals have
                      lost their connections to family and culture and loved ones. Families have been segregated
                      and loved ones dies alone.
  Safety &            Much of the media and Australian Public Servants, spouted that they "were keeping us safe,"
  Security            yet they destroyed the foundations of safety, totally. People's health deteriorated, due to
                      stress, isolation, and public execution. Respected individuals who have always been law
                      abiding citizens who have contributed to Australian society and economy, were persecuted
                      for their views and actions, regardless of how informed they were/are.
  Psychological       Through the mandates and restrictions there are many individuals who have had their basic
  Needs               rights removed. Their ability to earn a wage, pay their bills, buy food, be socially included,
                      and placed into an extreme emotional state, some losing their businesses and homes along
                      with their support networks.




2 | P age
    1.   https://www.royalcommission.gov.au/about-royal-commissions

   2.    https://www.abc.net.au/news/2023-10-05/abs-data-shows-mental-health-anxiety-depression-rising/102928618
                     Individual Submission: COVID-19 Royal Commission Terms of Reference Inquiry
                                          Submitted: 12.01.2024,1


    2. That a COVID-19 Royal Commission Inquiry include in the terms of reference comprehensive examination
         into all States, Territories, and include all Federal and State Governments, Public Servants, reviewing all
         agreements, grants, funding and submissions, financial transactions, indemnity, and financial incentive
         programs that were associated with the COVID-19 Response. Incentives related to Vaccine promotion,
         distribution, and utilisation with the terms of all mandates regarding all State, Federal and Commonwealth
         organisations along with private companies and businesses who benefited from financial incentives, for
         mandating their employees, clients, customers, stakeholders, and partnership agreements. That this
         information be obtained through freedom of information and that this information be robustly audited and
         debated.
    3. That all findings be disclosed in public consultations and hearings and documented in public documents, for
         public scrutiny.



Yours sincerely



Graduate Educator




3 | P age
    1.   https://www.royalcommission.gov.au/about-royal-commissions

    2.   https://www.abc.net.au/news/2023-10-05/abs-data-shows-mental-health-anxiety-depression-rising/102928618
