Anthony, 44 y o

WA

I was a fit 41 year old working in the mining and resources industry in northwest WA in a city
based role with occasional travel to site. As I didn’t go to site more than a couple of times a year
and I was very sceptical about the safety of the vaccine, I didn’t feel the need to rush out and
get the jab. After holding out until the point of being told ‘It’s the jab or your job’, I had to do it. I
received my first Moderna on 23rd of December 2021 in my left arm. Within 24 hours pain and
swelling was increasing in my arm. An involuntary muscle twinge (fasciculation) started in my left
deltoid muscle, followed by a minor weakness in my arm. It was noticeable but not serious
enough for alarm.

I made a comment several weeks later to my GP who advised it would disappear by itself and
not to worry. I requested an exemption until what ever was going on was resolved. A request to
see the Neurology Department was made but no exemption given. On 17 February 2022 I was
advised my next Moderna injection was due and again it was mandatory. So I had to have it.
Seven days after the injection, the twinge in my shoulder got worse and spread to my bicep and
forearm muscle. The twinges were uncontrollable and caused extreme pain, cramping and
fatigue. This was accompanied by sore heart, chest and thoracic muscles. I consulted my GP
and explained my deep concern.

That’s when my unforgettable journey really began. I had multiple MRIs, CT scans, ultrasounds
and ECGs but everything came back inconclusive. I reiterated my thoughts that the cause was
the vaccine and to investigate rehabilitation protocols for injuries of this nature. But because my
symptoms were not consistent with documented adverse reactions they were not explored and
were dismissed. The muscle spasms and weakness continued to worsen to the point of further
deterioration of function in my left arm.

In September 2022 I got Covid for the first time. I woke up on the second day and had lost
complete function of my left arm. I’m left-handed so I noticed immediately and rushed myself to
the hospital emergency department. I was sent to neurology and had multiple MRIs and
ultrasounds but again, they came back inconclusive. They performed nerve conduction testing
and electromyography. The results were reduced activation and recruitment of my muscles. My
nerves were not conducting as they should anymore and I felt as if my arm was slowly dying.
There was nothing the emergency and neurology departments could do to stop the progression.
They wished me well and sent me home with a follow up in six months.

In October 2022 a new employment opportunity presented itself as an alternative to my FIFO
employment and lifestyle. They had mandated the third vaccine and it was being pushed on me
from all angles. I again requested an exemption because of my adverse reactions to the
previous two but due to lack of formal diagnosis, I was rejected and told I would not be able to
continue the employment process without it. I submitted to the intense pressure from every
angle and on the 17th November 2022 got the shot. Within hours the muscle spasms in my left
arm were out of control. I had lost function and now the involuntary movements of my arm were
noticeable to everyone. I engaged another neurosurgeon for a second opinion as I couldn’t take
much more. My body was going into an uncontrollable state.

In April 2023 another nerve conduction test was done to check my progression and now there
was no recruitment or activation of my left arm muscles. Whatever was eating my nerves (and
that’s what it felt like) had eaten it all. May 22nd 2023 my neurosurgeon decided to do
exploratory surgery on my brachial plexus nerves that stem from nerve roots in the neck and
torso section of the spinal cord and connect to the nerves in the arm. He found these nerves
were bound together with tendons by a sticky gel type substance. This substance was removed
from my chest cavity, neck, shoulder and upper left arm. When I woke up from surgery he said
he had never seen this before and advised he had done the best he could. I believe he saved
me that day.

By now my symptoms have improved slightly with the fasciculations calming down but the
weakness and deterioration of muscles still there. The early prognosis was life with 90 per cent
reduction of use of my left arm. The best case scenario was partial use of my left arm in
possibly two to four years.

My GP finally agreed the cause was the vaccine and completed the government compensation
scheme form for me. But my claim was rejected as I was injured by the wrong vaccine.

I’ve been teaching myself to write, cut, hold, carry right-handed. I can’t put quilts in their covers
anymore or hang up the washing. I can’t do physical activities that require two arms. This is
almost impossible with 3 kids and active lifestyle but I make do with what I do have.

My career has suffered considerably and I can’t return to work due to my injury. My new
employer just advised they will not renew my contract - I suspect this is due to inconsistent
work flow.

I participated in this experiment for one thing and now I’ve lost the thing I was fighting to save -
my career. I feel the impact of my situation is minimal compared to the many others who have
been devastated by injuries beyond comprehension.

I feel in my situation if I had been taken seriously to begin with, early intervention could have
helped me and possibly ameliorated the severity of my injury. I had to orchestrate everything
myself and plan my own rehabilitation. The Neurology department at Fiona Stanley Hospital are
finally agreeable the cause of my serious injury was the vaccine. Please see attached Advice
Report.

It’s a long journey ahead and a new life to teach myself. Having an understanding, supportive
partner and loving family gets me through.

Thank you for reading my story.
