Submission to Covid inquiry.

I want to start off to say how cynically this process is being rushed through parliament
                                              and I guess I can expect nothing less from the people that
have perpetrated a massive          against the citizens and tax payers of Australia.

This boils down to Fear and Panic that was clearly in many peoples minds, including mine starting from
early January 2020 when I first heard of a new virus rapidly spreading, clearly retrospectively there was
a lot of state supported propaganda coming from overseas sources Australian Intelligence agencies
failed to identify from the outset, such as people falling dead on the streets of Chinese cities, and the
Panic happening in the Lombardy region in Italy, where it was obvious the deaths reported even then
were of an obvious demographic. The panicked steps that lead key decision makers in Australia to
                    Australia's Economy (when an economy can be broadly defined in any economic
system as the relationships between people that these days is a basic determinant of survival), needs a
full and frank examination without equivocation, and if the only way that happens is to indemnify
somehow those decision makers from consequences of their actions in order for us to avoid the multiple
decades of economic damage they have cause objectively and completely unnecessarily, happening
again then I submit that must be done.

These facts that I am referring to continue to pour out like a fire hose if you are only willing to take your
fingers out of your ears. I do not need to repeat them, and as I am submitting this on the last possible
day of submissions I do not have time to research it all.

As a trained and qualified medical scientist, whom has seen and researched decades of failed drug
releases, the damage of poor government oversight and regulatory capture by pharmaceutical
companies have been proven time and again for so many medications, we still live with many of them
and the appalling double standards of an apology from the PM around Thalidomide the gas lighting of
patients such as myself by some Doctors to this day that (in my case) the          vaccine or others is safe
and effective for all age groups if laughable and against the basic diathesis of risk/reward that is a
constant in medicine.

My Journey started with me working as a clinician, and being^^^^^H with^^^^and a family
history                  and being initially worried about possibly catching what seemed to be targeting
those criteria, and I was very keen to get a vaccine for myself and was closely following its development,
which I recall clearly was being discussed in February/march 2020 and how difficult it was likely to be to
manufacture a Corona-virus Vaccine, as many previous attempts had led to dead animal test subjects
from Antibody dependant enhancement or other complications. I then recall contacting professional
organisations to ask for protocols to conduct my clinical work in a safe manner and them having no
response at all.

My          being ^^^^^rained in the 1970's now retired, reminded me that mask wearing really is
not effective against airborne viruses and not effective for most things if worn for longer that 20-30
minutes as they were trained back then and through the infection control scares around HIV in the
1980's she started wearing masks since then as they were not as common till those times, luckily a mask
may work for HIV as it was blood borne (though blood can be aerosolised while using high speed drills in
dentistry and causes serious risks to dentists for many kinds of pathogens), not spread through aerosol
as we now know COV-19 is. But at the time we did not know at least the public didn't know how it was
spread and I used alcohol wipes and masks and Glen20 after every consult this is Januray -March 2020
before any statement from my Professional organisation had said anything.

Then the flights from China were stopped, I was somewhat relieved that this issue was starting to be
taken notice of by serious people, but I was already concerned that it may have been too late as there
were already cases in Melbourne that it may get out of control, but that as we were still in the warm
season that it may be ok. Though I worried for when winter came.

Then the lockdown was announced when the cases were clearly spreading around in^^H again I was
relieved as this ment some time to attempt to slow the spread, but I became a bit disillusioned when it
just had not done anything after the 2 weeks and cases continued to persist and the lockdown extension
was announced. It was at the one month point it had become obvious that this was not working and I
knew that we as a society were going to have to live with this and this is definitely the point that
Government decision makers had gone off the rails. Continuing to do more of something that wasn't
working effectively at that point (and what I mean by effectively was an immediate halt to any
transmission) was and is demonstrably infective given the devastating catastrophic manner of control
sending everyone home for two weeks was, I country simply cannot continue to do that for any
significant length of time or people will and have died as a consequence of that action. You can be in
denial of that fact all you like but it is documented as to the impacts of such an action that took place
both in the short and long term economic costs but also the damage to peoples education relationships
and general outlook (and suicide rates) it has caused.

Working and running a small business it had devastated my earning capacity immediately from the very
beginning, I wanted and needed to get back to work and get on with it as while spending time at home
with my family was nice and I had the savings and my wife was able to continue to earn money, I treated
it like a nice holiday I was extreamly sceptical of the restrictions on outdoor activity time alone.

We now know that the 1.5m rule is a complete fabrication of population control not related to any
science, yes people do need to not cough and sneeze on people and some discussed ill mannered
people need to be reminded to do such things and wash their hands after visiting the bathroom, but
telling people not to spend time outside is straight up always ridiculous we know now that there isn't
any legitimate proven evidence this virus is transmitted outdoors day or night, with the dilution effect of
air movement and UV exposure.

Not only that no efforts have been made in the building industry codes to improve ventilation in the
codes which now the actual science proves we need to reduce mold and pathogen loading. Somewhere
government needs to take action.

I was still concerned about catching COVID but as 2020 moved on and we got back to work and cases
began to fall into nothing it became increasingly obvious that this disease had a steep age related death
risk, though its now obvious that we were being lied to by the doctors and scientists earlier as this was
apparently obvious even in china and Italy during the outbreaks that initiated thes^^^f lockdown
policies. I then became a lot less fearful for myself but still concerned for the older people I would see
day to day.

Then all of a sudden in the news we were presented with a novel mRNA vaccine to fight this novel virus,
I thought it was amazing stuff, though I was wary and while I was somewhat keen to take it for the
benefits this seemed to offer for my work with older people and possibly myself, I was clear with my
wife and children I did not want them taking it as this was a completely experimental vaccine untried on
the general population.

I wanted to be responsible and be first in line, thougl^^Bhealth made the hoops to get in line
extreamely cumbersome when they announced they would start vaccinating primary care (which I was
eleigible for) in March, I was not able to get my 1st dose till May with my follow up in June.

We now know that even by May the Active surveillance by the time I got my first dose should have been
clear that this vaccine was causing serious problems. The TGA clearly continues with denials that there is
any proof of causality but they barely have anybody in Australia of any quality making these decisions
instead relaying on the US FDA to make their decisions for them and we know how corrupt and captured
that organisation is though the fruits of their decisions over many years.

But still I didn't have any issues with my first dose apart from the usual sore arm, it was the second dose
in June 2021 that was the issue, I caught a ^^^^^/ithin a week of getting my first dose by the time I
had a time for my second dose 5-6 weeks later I had been over it for about a week with some^^^^M
                                  I got mine on the Sunday and by thursday of that week I had started to
                  and             with what I thousht was                                   not being able
to                    s my                             and                     I had to go see a walkin GP
on Monday of the following week.

I brought up the fact that I had just recently been vaccinated but she went on to deny any relationship,
that she was seeing a lot of^^ recently that its likely that it probably triggered   and it was a
                        she put me on^^^^^^^for 3 days, and didn't do anything for the incidental
finding of                                             (which I now know she should have referred me to
emergency if she was competent).

At first I thought she may well have been right maybe it was worsened by not waiting longer before
taking the second dose to recover from my illness as many of my worst symptoms seemed to improve
so quickly I stopped taking them in 2 days as she suggested I do if I felt I didn't need them anymore (as I
am more than aware how dangerous ^^^^^an be if abused).

But while I was able to                again, I never since then been back to exercising at the same
intensity as I was prior to that point. That was long term the most frustrating problem apart from
                    and bein.                    rom movement. I don't feel I can as actively participate
in activities with my children because of this. I now have to take my                       daily whereas
before I only needed it somedays during spring early summer and when I had a cold/flu. And I am on
quite                                       which barely                          in check and cause my
                  put me at risk of                          which I have hac^^| and so I now take^^^B
         too.

I used to mountain bike and scuba dive (despite                  since it used to be so mild I was still able to
pass a dive medical which was how mild it used to be).

What really has bothered me despite seeking a GP specialising                           in January of 2022 to
help me with these issues he also denied any relationship to the vacciene, he has no explanation as to
the sudden change in my blood^^^^B I went and saw him at the height of when AHPRA was
threatening doctors around Australia with deregistration if they didn't ignore patient complaints to the
vaccine and ignore requests for medical grounds for dispensation for vaccine mandates.

AHPRA will us^^^^Hwords to say we didn't say to violate peoples rights to bodily autonomy and
competent health care but that is the outcome I suffered from their decrees and threats. I don't blame
this GP as much as                                                      AHPRA that^^^Htheir own charter
and the basis of medicine to help people and not ignore them.

As a consequence of them despite having 2 doses already I was forced into having a 3rd dose by the state
government to keep my job, I got it on the last day before the mandate kicked in. I took a cocktail of
                                and such to try to reduce the burden on my body it caused after doing my
own extensive medical research (and I know how to research medical journals - I have a science degree
with two majors in anatomy human biology and physiology) from around the globe to negate the effect
that the s-protien causes on the body whether you get the s-Protein from infection OR vaccination there
is little difference this protein is now widely acknowledged as toxic itself and a poor candidate for an
mRNA vaccine.

This is a disgusting abuse of government power to commit fundamental human rights violations rarely
seen but much talked about as some of the most heinous crimes committed by governments and I am
sure your committee will just attempt to shrug it off as if its no big deal that it was all just a panic, or we
didn't know all the facts or worse yet some will still think its justifiable in certain situations etc.

Even if there was a theoretically airborne Ebola and there is a 100% effective vaccine with perfect safety,
as a medical scientist I can state there would be no need for a mandate as you would have 100% uptake
or near enough.

No here we have people whom saw not everyone was taking it and that was somehow a problem
because they though lockdowns were some kind of answer (which we have over 100 years of pandemic
science and government and World Health Organisation policy that says the opposite which was ignored
in 2020) and an infective vaccine which was demonstrably ineffective because if you have to take it to
protect others whom have taken it then how effective can it be. We know whom those^^^|
           are they can be categorised as the Zero Covid strategists. They had to have been discredited
and no longer listened to at the 1 month mark of the lockdown. It was never going to work, the science
backs that, you can not stop the spread permanently of a wide spread aerosolised virus, a mask can not
stop it passing though it, 20 meter separation between people cant do it as it hangs in the air indoors for
hours if its not ventilated and a plexiglass barrier collects more dust than virus. Anything that would be
 effective" at that would cause the collapse of society, as even thel                       of China, which
the government here is clearly attempting to copy found out by Early in 2023.

That is my story and my interpretation of someone whom has the basic qualifications to understand the
science which I guarantee most of you committee members have no qualifications in. The TGA and
AHPRA are in bureaucratic protective mode, I know the majority of doctors nurses and allied health
professionals are highly critically of these organisations do not respect many of their colleagues sitting
on their boards, their Medical Lysenkoism will kill people especially when they want to change
government policy to prioritise social justice goals or tick a box prescribing over the problems of the
individual patient in front of a practitioner.

Urgent action is needed to restore faith in government and medicine as almost the entire population
has begun to at least start down the path of disbelief that anything was done right during the past nearly
4 years.

I know the government has restricted the terms of reference to the point of irrelevance but Australians
and especially my self are not going to take this behaviour lying down. Morrison is out on his ear rightly
so over this stuff and The PM is on notice that this whitewash will have him out by the next election too.

Peter Edwards
