MANDATES BY GOVERNMENT AND EMPLOYERS FOR EMPLOYEES OR POTENTIAL EMPLOYEES

(Employer please sign below to confirm receipt of this information)

1. It is an established principle in Law that an individual with the capacity to consent cannot and should
not be compelled to have any medical or experimental treatment against their wishes. This is further
explained below in the section dealing with Informed Consent.

2. This principle, would make it inequitable and potentially unlawful for any Government or employer to
seek to mandate the experimental injection which they know causes injury or death.

3. It is also unlawful to discriminate against someone i.e., vaccinated or unvaccinated.

4. There is written evidence that both the Prime Minister and Greg Hunt have said in writing the
Experimental injection is not mandatory.

The Government has lied and mislead the Australian people into believing this is a vaccine when it is an
experiment. People are dying (over 300 so far in Australia) and are having serious adverse reactions.

Professor John Skerritt (TGA) admitted recently it is an experiment and Greg Hunt stated we are all in a
massive clinical trial (i.e., part of the experiment)

There is no end in sight - the TGA cannot say this experiment is "safe and effective". There have been no
proper trials to determine that, and the TGA have no plan as it how many deaths it will take before they
stop these experimental jabs. This Information has been obtained via FOI request.

Contract of Employment

5. This contains the terms and conditions regulating the working relationship between the employer and
the employee. Any material changes to this Contract can normally only be made with the agreement of
both parties.

6. Consequently, if the Contract does not contain a specific clause to require a vaccine for Covid-19, then
the employer is, in most cases, unable to unilaterally change the Contract and insist on a vaccine being a
condition of the employment. Likewise, any attempt by an employer to circumvent this by dismissing
and then re-hiring an employee on new contractual terms may also be considered unlawful.

7. If the employer nevertheless, continues to unilaterally change the Contract, such a change is likely to
be a breach of the Contract. The employer would have to demonstrate that the mandating of the
experimental vaccine was a "reasonable instruction" in all the circumstances, to avoid it being in breach
of contract would have to be considered in light of the contents of this letter and each case would have
to be decided upon its own facts. If the employer is unable to demonstrate the change was a
"reasonable instruction" and provided the employee has the requisite length of service, the employee
may be able to resign and pursue a damages claim for constructive unfair dismissal against the
employer. This damages claim (including all associated costs) could be substantial and may not be
covered by any insurance policy.

ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR EMPLOYERS

8. Some employers are now reported as stating that they will make the experimental vaccine a condition
of employment being granted to new employees. There are grave concerns over mandating vaccinations
for the following reasons, which would apply equally to existing employees and job seekers (including
apprentices and work experience and similar classes of workers):

* The questionable efficacy of the vaccine;

* The potential for psychological and physical harm caused by the vaccine and/or the vaccine mandate
to the employee;

* The potential that such a mandate may be considered indirect discrimination, as many people may be
unable to have the vaccine

* The issue of informed consent, which applies to all medical interventions.

9. Whilst there may not be an existing Contract governing the employment, this does not mean an
employer is free to mandate a vaccine as a condition of an offer of employment.

10. Claims of up to 95% effectiveness of the vaccines were based on evidence of effectiveness in
preventing mild symptoms. The concerns caused by this pandemic and the justification for all imposed
measures and restrictions have never about been mild symptoms

Outcomes of concern, such as severe disease, hospitalisation and death were not assessed in the trials
Therefore, we are unaware of any evidence that any vaccine against Covid-19 will benefit public or
individual health in terms of reducing serious illness or deaths.

11. Published claims of effectiveness were based on interim analyses of trial data, assessing an
extremely small number of trial participants. This numbered only 94 out of 40,000 participants in the
Pfizer trial (0.2% of the total cohort) who were the first participants to develop mild symptoms and who
tested PCR positive for SARS-CoV-2. The efficacy claim is based on the fact that 95% of this small group
was in the placebo arm. Due to the small numbers, we consider that this has limited statistical
significance and, in any case, is only a measure of Relative Risk Reduction. Closer scrutiny of the figures
reveals that the Absolute Risk Reduction to an individual inferred by the vaccine is only about 0.4%. In
addition, the full raw trial data is yet to be published and multiple cases of clinical disease, including two
cases of serious disease in the vaccine group, were not included in the analysis, as they were not
confirmed with a positive test.

12. There is no evidence of the long-term safety of Covid-19 vaccines as the existing Phase 3 trials have
only been running for about 6 months. Indeed, only about 2 months of short-term safety data is
available. It is therefore unknown whether there will be serious late-onset side effects resulting from the
vaccines e.g., cancers, autoimmune diseases, infertility, neurological disease etc. These conditions can
take months or years to become apparent.

13. For a disease that has an infection fatality rate of <0.1% for most of the population (aged <70 years),
the usefulness of mass vaccination programs is currently questionable, especially in the absence of
robust safety data. Even in the elderly, aged >70 years, the recovery rate from Covid-19 is in the range of
the claimed effectiveness of the currently approved vaccines

14. There is currently no evidence that the vaccine prevents transmission of the virus, so the recipient is
likely to still be able to spread the virus to others. This means that there is no wider public health benefit
of having or indeed mandating a Covid-19 vaccine. The current guidance from the government is that
vaccinated individuals will still need to socially distance and wear masks. In these circumstances there is
simply no rational or justification to mandate a vaccine for the safety of others.

Potential harm from the vaccine

15. Employees may find the requirement to have a vaccine, as a condition of either their continuing
employment or their potential employment, an extremely distressing situation. There are very real
questions over the safety of Covid-19 vaccines Furthermore, many employees will be worried about
their financial position if they refuse the vaccine and lose their job or chance of employment as a result.
Employees faced with this situation may suffer from stress and anxiety, which will adversely affect their
mental health.

16. Furthermore, it is particularly important to emphasize that there are multiple causes for concern
regarding vaccine safety for Covid-19. Concerns over the vaccine safety are set out below.

17. Vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 are based on a completely new biotechnology. mRNA and DNA-vector
vaccines have never previously received full regulatory approval for mass public use and are more akin
to genetic manipulation/modification than traditional vaccination. Current trials have only been in
progress for a few months and therefore do not allow any conclusions regarding possible medium and
long-term effects of this novel approach. Multiple concerns have been raised by scientists regarding
possible adverse effects, which at this stage remain unrefuted owing to lack of data. It is important to be
aware that all the Covid-19 vaccine trials are ongoing and not due to finish until 2023. The vaccines
remain experimental, and anyone "vaccinated" is effectively taking part in the trials looking at long-term
effects, despite the emergency approval.

18. mRNA and DNA vaccines are designed to induce an immune response against a protein that the
body has been prompted to produce itself, by incorporation of the synthetic viral gene present in the
vaccine (in the form of mRNA or DNA) into the cell internal machinery or genome. It is currently
hypothesized that this immune response will be limited to the target protein and not be directed to any
innate human proteins, but there is no current data that can rule out the possibility that this technology
may trigger autoimmune disease, which could take several months or years to manifest.

19. Attempts at developing a vaccine against coronavirus have been in progress for almost 20 years at
least since the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in 2002. These have been unsuccessful, mainly due to serious
safety concerns in the animal trials. Specifically, an effect of immune enhancement or antibody­
dependent immune enhancement (ADIE) was observed, which caused animals to develop more severe
disease when exposed to the wild virus after immunisation. Instead of being protected, the animals got
very sick, and some died. It is completely unknown at this stage, whether the currently administered
vaccines will trigger this devastating effect, as animal trials were limited or skipped and the reaction to
subsequent exposure to SARS-CoV-2 virus in humans has not been specifically tested. The possibility of
triggering ADEI remains a significant concern.

20. The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines contain polyethylene glycol (PEG). PEG is a known allergen which
carries a risk of serious, potentially fatal allergic reactions. Even within the short space of time of the
vaccine being rolled out, there have been reports of serious allergic reactions and anaphylaxis, which
appear to be occurring at a higher rate than normally expected for vaccines. In response to these
reports, the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC) issued advice that anyone allergic to PEG or its close
relative, Polysorbate, should not receive either of the currently available mRNA vaccines.

21. A leaked CDC PowerPoint presentation showed a high level (1 in 36 doses) of reported significant
adverse events (leaving people unable to perform normal daily activities or to work and requiring
medical attention) over the first 5 days of the US Pfizer vaccine rollout. As of June 2021, close to 30,000
serious adverse events and 6,000 deaths relating to Covid-19 vaccines had been reported to the US
Government Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS).

22. Neurological damage and complications have previously been reported following vaccinations.
Worryingly, in the Covid-19 vaccine trials, cases of transverse myelitis, which affects the spinal cord,
have been reported as well as other neurological adverse events such as Bells's Palsy (paralysis of the
facial nerve) reported in the Pfizer trial data and Moderna trial There have also been reports of
encephalomyelitis following Covid-19 vaccination and a high risk of blood clots in Astra Zeneca.

23. Potential concerns have also been raised regarding the effects of the vaccines on fertility and on the
risk of HIV acquisition. Concerns about fertility are based on homology between the SARS-CoV-2 spike
protein and Syncytin-1, which is essential for placental development. Due to this homology, it is
plausible that antibodies produced by the Covid-19 vaccine could cross react with the placental proteins,
which could negatively impact fertility. It is possible that such concerns will be refuted by evidence in
due course, but currently there are no data to rule out this side-effect.

24. Concerns regarding increased vulnerability to HIV infection have been noted in relation to vaccines
using an adenovirus vector (used in the Oxford/Astra-Zeneca vaccine). More recent observations have
led to renewed warnings regarding this potential effect with the Covid-19 vaccines.

25. Sadly, there have already been reports of deaths following administration of a vaccine against SARS-
Cov-2 to healthy recipients. Over 300 deaths have been reported in Australia. Many more serious
adverse reactions There is currently widespread administration to the general population, and
specifically to the frail and elderly, who commonly have multiple comorbidities - a group which was
largely excluded from the vaccine trials. Due to the lack of safety data for this group, it needs to be
emphasized that administering the vaccine specifically to this group of the elderly with co-morbidities is,
entirely experimental at this stage. Following the deaths of 23 elderly people following Covid-19
vaccines, Norwegian regulators have updated their advice, urging doctors to proceed with caution in
administering vaccines to the very frail. The HSE in Ireland has also recently issued advice cautioning
giving the vaccines to the very frail.

36. There is an awareness of potential harms that will occur amongst policymakers and the
pharmaceutical companies. In the UK its Regulatory Body The Medicines and Health Care Products
Regulatory Agency (MHRA) recently updated their software to be able to capture adequately the
"expected high number of adverse events" that their legacy system would otherwise have been unable
to cope with Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers demanded and have been granted exemption from any
liability for adverse effects caused by their products as they could not "take the financial risk of liability
There is therefore no recourse for compensation from the manufacturers.

27. This letter is providing you (the Government and employer) with the evidence of the potential risks
of harm from the Covid-19 vaccine novel biotechnology. If a Government or employer makes any
recommendations or mandates in relation to the vaccine, those must be considered against the
backdrop of Health and Safety legislation and must take account of any health risks associated with the
experimental vaccine itself for certain groups and preferably (from a risk perspective) for individual
employees.

28. Mandating the experimental vaccine could give rise to claims from employees who suffer an adverse
reaction to the experimental vaccine. In the event of an employee dying or suffering serious injury after
receiving the experimental vaccine and a link being established (i.e. it being proven on a balance of
probabilities that the vaccine caused the employee's death or serious injury and but for the employer
mandating the vaccine, the employee would not have taken it), a claim may be brought by the deceased
employee's family or the injured employee against the employer.

Discrimination

29. Many employees or job seekers may be unable to have the vaccine due to protected characteristics
such as age or religion.

30. Mandating a vaccine may be considered discrimination, which may allow the employee or job seeker
to bring a claim for damages. Discrimination can take the form of direct or indirect discrimination,
harassment or victimization; all of which could be relevant in this situation and are matters, which any
employer should be alert to.

31. Furthermore, any differentiation in treatment between those who have or haven't been
"vaccinated" may amount to indirect discrimination.

32. Damages would be uncapped and include loss of earnings (or potential earnings), as well as injury to
feelings and interest. In some situations, there can be aggravated damages if the court finds that the
employer behaved in a malicious or heavy-handed way.

33. Some insurers may refuse to cover claims where there are very real concerns over the vaccines and
where the employer is clearly on notice, or should be on notice, of such concerns, but the employer
proceeded to mandate the vaccine in any event

34. Employers also need to be aware that even if the Contract allows for a vaccine, if they continue to
mandate this requirement and fail to take into consideration the personal circumstances of the
employee and any protected characteristics, they could face a claim for indirect discrimination

Requirement for Fully Informed Consent

34. The administration of any vaccine may only occur with the fully informed consent of the individual.

35. The employee must be free to accept or refuse any treatments and be made fully aware of what
they are consenting to. Valid consent cannot be given if the person is not made aware that they are in
an experiment or clinical trial.

36. The employee's decision should be voluntary and must not be influenced by pressure from medical
staff, friends or family.

37. If an employer still wishes to proceed with mandating the vaccine, despite what is stated above, they
must ensure that the employee is given the opportunity to consent to or refuse the vaccine and that this
consent must be free and voluntarily given. To threaten an employee with dismissal, or to refuse a job
offer based on refusal to have the vaccine, or to apply any other restrictions or penalties, may be
considered to amount to coercion on the part of the employer and may allow the employee or job
seeker to bring potential legal action.

DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY

38. If an employer requests evidence of vaccination from its employees, this in itself gives rise to
significant data protection issues and privacy law concerns, opening up an employer to even further
legal risks. This issue should be considered by employers and Governments.

SUMMARY

39. There is a natural desire for many employers to protect their workforce and customers. However, in
the context of Covid-19 vaccines, this desire should be weighed against the wider legal and ethical issues
surrounding a policy of vaccine mandate as well as the state of the existing evidence on Covid-19
vaccine safety and efficacy. It is important to fully acknowledge the current available scientific evidence
regarding the efficacy and safety of this vaccine. Employers should be alive to the pitfalls of a misguided
or misjudged approach to these issues and should seek legal advice if in any doubt.

40. Employers must appreciate that the employee and job seeker have certain legal rights and that
ultimately the employee's decision must be respected and upheld without penalty.

41. Finally regard must be had to an employee's right which is enshrined in all Human Rights provisions
worldwide that they cannot be subject to any inhumane or degrading treatment or medical or scientific
experiments without their full freely given informed consent.

A mandate cannot be made to enroll a person in an experiment without their informed consent. The
current consent form (supplied by the Commonwealth Government) signed by people that does not
specify that they consent to take part in an experiment, and that does not specify the full risks (serious
adverse side including death) and does not specify the risks from the toxic ingredients will be legally
invalid.

Please sign a copy of this letter to say it has been received by you. It will be used in Court as evidence
that you have been made aware of all the information you need to take into account when making your
decision in this matter and that you continued regardless of the harm to which you were subjecting
people..

Yours faithfully,



(Your name and signature here before giving to employer)



Employer signature to acknowledge receipt from employee:
