The Australian Government has onlyjust apologized to the Thalidomide Victims.

After Thalidomide, theTGAwas established to prevent similar disasters.

The Australian and State governments are going to need to do more than apologise for the lack of
oversight of theTGA in the provisional approval for the experimental COVID injections.

Following the results of the COVID injection trials there were serious adverse effects (GBS, Transverse
Myelitis, DVT, PE etc) that were evident, and along with the Primary Care Alerts that were being issued
there was enough doubt that most informed people would choose to decline a COVID injection.

APHRA was notifying medical professionals, threatening suspension to medical professionals who did
not support the government narratives. Emails to warn Doctors not to recommend one brand over the
other despite the totally different side effect profiles and totally different mechanisms of action. There
are not meant to be inducements or rewards advertised or offered to induce someone to take a
medication. Medical Conscription is illegal in Australia.

The Queensland government banned serology testing for COVID so people couldn’t claim natural
immunity. The Queensland government banned hydroxychloroquine and the Australian government
banned IVM despite positive studies by reputable people such as

Informed Consent is entrenched in Medical Law and Ethics. A patient needs to be competent to make a
decision and be provided with the necessary information to make that decision. Then it is up to the
patient to weigh up the risks and benefits of the intervention to themselves.

Informed consent law in Australia is based on Rogers vs Whittaker 1992. Every Australian should have
had the right to determine that their riskof COVID was low compared to taking an experiment injection
that had not been tested for middle or long-term adverse effects.

Consent must be voluntary, it cannot be coerced under the threat of losing your livelihood.

Refer to attached article “Disease and Dictatorship: the case of Hitler’s Reich” for a summary of medical
complicity and human experimentation. It is appalling that all Australians had their right to informed
consent removed from them. There was no informed consent as no one could be given details of long­
term adverse events. The adverse events from the study were hidden and some of the injections the
control group was merged.

It is reckless medicine to advocate for the provision of different experimental injections to the same
person. This confounds all the adverse event reporting.

The Experience at this clinic:

Among patients, rates of DVT and PE that had been steady for 21 years prior changed dramatically in 18
months. Other very rare conditions have increased in frequency.

Of our clinical staff three out of four required cardiology consults due to the experimental injections.
One of four had multiple absences due to illness including multiple bouts of COVID having had multiple
different experimental injections. These staff members were complying with the Mandate by the
Queensland Government for the 17th December 2021. This was after the Lancet publication that clearly
showed that the Pfizer injections did not stop transmission.



Personally, I had
I was notable to report my adverse events online directly to DAEN. For a year after I was ready to report
the adverse effects the Qld Government was insisting on reporting through a designated Qld Health
Doctor only. My Cardiologists and my GP’s were not allowed to report.
                                                                                    The stinks of using the
system to minimise reports and hiding the data of those that do persevere to report.

Patients and Health Professionals want Informed consent back.

The State governments need to be investigated fortheir role in breaking federal law and taking away
human rights.




Ethics and law for the health professionals. Kerridge, Lowe, Mcphee The Federation Press

Disease and dictatorship: the case of Hitler's Reich. Michael Biddiss PhD FRHistS
