To Whom it may concern,

As a small business owner, health practitioner and provider of food I am deeply concerned
about the way that the Covid 19 pandemic was handled by the Federal and State
Governments. We are a team of 14 staff and are situated at the front door of a large
regional shopping centre and directly opposite a pharmacy. Being an essential service and
health provider, we were able to monitor our community for the entirety of this journey and
to be fair we are still witnessing severe consequences of these decisions.

I will summarise as follows:

    1. The implications of lockdown are serious. Being one of few establishments in our
       community to be open for trade, we witnessed at first hand the damage done to
       people's mental health and general anxiety.

   2. Unreported vaccine injury is prevalent. By virtue of providing our services a large
      proportion of the community seek our advice regarding broader health issues. It has
      become made very clear that the statistics would support this statement, simply
      observe the ABS mortality data during the last 3 years. Outside of the statistics I
      would suggest that these numbers are far greater, anecdotally I am seeing 2-3 direct
      vaccine injury cases in otherwise healthy people per week.

   3. TGA and ATAGI relationships to important stakeholders. Critical decisions were made
      by people and organisations who have close ties and a lack of independence from
      those that would gain the most financially.

My suggestions around addressing these problems are as follows:

    1. To create a truly independent organisation that is impenetrable from those wishing
       to influence the pandemic response. This would be an emergency team who have
       our community interests at heart. It would work at a federal level for a national
       response as the State responses were divisive and damaging.

   2. Understanding that we need to protect the weakest in our community we should
      create secure facilities to protect and treat them and let the remainder of the
      community exercise their innate immunity. Power put into questionable hands lead
      to a mandate of poisoning people via coercive and overly controlling means, in short
      lives of vulnerable people have been ruined. Decisions were made out of fear as a
      reaction to lobbyism, propaganda and misinformation, it is our responsibility as a
      developed and progressive country to empower and strengthen our citizens and not
      erode their health and human rights.



I sincerely hope that this submission provides some food for thought so that we can all be
better prepared if such an event were to happen in the imminent future.

Yours Sincerely.
