12/12/2023

To the enquiry into COVID, and the response

I would like to submit the following:

BACKGROUND: Along with other Victorians I suffered through the incompetence of
       government at all levels (Federal and State). I endured my colleagues being
       "forced and coerced" into taking unproved medical intervention and suffered the
       medical consequences. I am^^^^^^^and fortunately I did not take the
          experimental poison, I took alternate preventative treatments, exercise, daily
          vitamin D, magnesium and zinc. I also performed nasal irrigation when I thought I
          may be coming down with something. I have not had a cold or the flu for at least
          12 years. I believe I may have caught COVID (I have never tested) but my nasal
          irrigation meant I had brushed off all symptoms within 48 hours and apart from a
          very runny nose I had no other symptoms. Until this "pandemic" I used to trust
          the media and governments, that trust is not only lost but will never be recovered.
          I now believe the government and media actively lie to the public and are more
          interested in complying with overseas organizations such as the WEF and large
          organizations rather than serving the public.

(1)       ROYAL COMMISSION: There should be a Royal Commission with the powers of a
          Royal Commission not this toothless enquiry
(2)       NOT A REAL PANDEMIC: This was not a pandemic, a pandemic is something like
          "Ebola", a look at what the effects of catching COVID are now can easily prove that
          the reaction was a complete over-reaction.
(3)       PANDEMIC RESPONSE: The government ignored all "pandemic" protocols; the
          government should have provided assistance to those in most need otherwise
          provide "sound" advise on how to naturally protect yourselves, e.g. exercise, this
          would enable most to care for themselves while allowing everyday life to continue
(4)       CHANGING THE DEFINITION OF VACCINES: the government changed the definition
          of "vaccines" so that these medical experiments could be included, I suspect to
          make it more agreeable to take it by the general public.
(5)       MANDATES: There is no science to mandating experimental and dangerous
          medical intervention on the general population on a blanket scale. There should
          have been unbiased and independent medical advice at a personal level, which
          didn't happen due to the stand over tactics of AHPRA over doctors
(6)       LOCKDOWNS: there is no science to lockdowns and was against all previously
          determined pandemic protocols
(7)       DEATHS: the injuries and deaths; death rates around the world are up significantly
          and there is no government action on the matter, cardiac arrests and aggressive
          cancers from nowhere in those who partook of the experiment. The young age of
          these victims is very troubling. I suspect these will get worse. The whistle-blower
          in New Zealand is of concern in regard to what he had to show and the
          government's reaction in arresting him and shutting him down rather than be
          open and honest with the facts.
(8)       SACKINGS: there is no science to sacking people for choosing what to put in their
          body
(9)       CENSORSHIP: there is no science to stopping people have the truth
(10)      PRIVACY: there is no science to invading the public's privacy, it was a disgusting
          intrusion to have to produce "certificates" of medical intervention to go about
          normal life, it was nothing more that coercion and enforcing medical intervention
(11)      LIES: Where do I start? Lies by media, government at all levels, e.g. the medical
          experiment labelled safe and effective, stating it was for the greater good and
          protecting "grandma", stating the medical intervention reduced the chance of
          getting COVID. There was no disclosure of the components of these "injections"
          e.g. DNA and GMO?
(12)      OSTRACISATION: There is no science to ostracising people, only to force and
          coerce them to take a medical intervention they didn't want to take.
(13)      EXPERIMENTAL AUTHORISATION: Mass medical intervention on the total public by
          an untried product is at best dangerous
(14)      RIDICULING OF ALTERNATE THERAPIES: The only way these experimental medical
          treatments (I won't call them vaccines) could be approved was to lie about the
          alternate treatments such as ivermectin & hydroxychloroquine
(15)      MEDIA COMPLIANCE: basic coercion and lies by the media.
(16)      INEFFECTIVE TESTING: The RAT tests and other testing is not fit for purpose and
          was a total waste of money. I believe it was implemented to scare the public.
(17)      DNA & GMO: The mRNA products may contain DNA and GMO which I understand
          is against the Australian Law.
(18)      FEAR PROMOTING: The never ending "press conferences" were deigned to scare
          the general public into submission.

I know many who took the "jab" regret taking it.

I know many who didn't take the "jab" and they all don't regret their decision.

I know many have lost trust and faith in government due to the above.

I suspect the governments do not want the truth to come out due to the potential financially
crippling payouts to those effected.

I have no trust in this enquiry, I believe the State Governments will not comply and critical
issues will not be looked at. The most critical are adverse reactions and the current
increased death rates due to cardio vascular and cancer. If you wanted these matters
disclosed there would be a royal commission.
