Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

My name is Robert Ristevski and as a concerned citizen I am writing to elaborate the necessity of a
Royal Commission to investigate who, where and why abused their powers during the Covid Pandemic
Saga and to criminally prosecute every individual that had a contribution in causing bodily harm and
death, subjecting employees to segregation and discrimination and causing financial damage due to
vaccination status.


I am listing several points in support of my request:

1.      It was impossible to make a legal informed consent in accordance with the Australian
Immunisation Handbook as endorsed by ATAGI. Long-term safety studies for COVID-19 vaccines are
non-existent, therefore it remains unknown if in the next five to ten years the COVID-19 injections will
cause organ failure, promote cancer growth, trigger neurological diseases, or instigate autoimmuno­
deficiency syndrome. On 30 April 2021 Pfizer published the document “5.3.6 CUMULATIVE ANALYSIS
OF POST-AUTHORIZATION ADVERSE EVENT REPORTS OF PF-07302048 (BNT162B2) RECEIVED
THROUGH 28-FEB-2021” showing harmful and fatal safety problems which were not disclosed by the
TGA, ATAGI or any state government. The Australian Immunisation Handbook states that valid consent
can only be made when the potential risks and benefits have been fully conveyed. The full dangers of
COVID-19 vaccines are not disclosed on the Consent Form.

Why was this information withheld?


2.       Pfizer’s published document “5.3.6 CUMULATIVE ANALYSIS OF POST-AUTHORIZATION
ADVERSE EVENT REPORTS OF PF-07302048 (BNT162B2) RECEIVED THROUGH 28-FEB-202T’
shows that in the first three months of inoculations of their COVID-19 vaccine 42,086 serious adverse
events were recorded and 1,223 fatalities. The same document has a nine page Appendix listing almost
1,300 adverse effects of special interest that are of grave concern in the long-term, many of which have
already been detected to manifest among the inoculated. The statement that the vaccines were safe and
effective was misleading because it knowingly discarded the dangers and the fatality risks that were
identified by the manufacturer of the vaccine.

Why was this data ignored? Why was a dangerous treatment allowed to be nationally mandated, when
medications with much less risks have been removed from the market?


3.     The published study "COVID-19 RNA Based Vaccines and the Risk of Prion Disease” detected
changes that can slowly lead to developing Alzheimer’s disease and other neurological degenerative
diseases. According to the researcher, the approval of the RNA based vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 was
premature and that the vaccine may cause much more harm than benefit.
        The published study “Intracellular Reverse Transcription of Pfizer BioNTech COVID-19 mRNA
Vaccine BNT162b2 In Vitro in Human Liver Cell Line" found that the contents of Pfizer’s Covid-19
injection enter human liver cells and convert into DNA. It alters the DNA sequence of a human cell.
        The published study "Dark-Field Microscopic Analysis on the Blood of 1,006 Symptomatic
Persons After Anti COVID mRNA Injections from Pfizer/BioNtech or Moderna" showed that the mRNA
injections from Pfizer or Moderna caused blood erythrocyte abnormalities in 94% of test samples. The
slides show visible packing and stacking of red blood cells, the type of damage that precedes circulatory
disorders. The blood samples taken from the vaccinated subjects mimic the blood of patients who
typically have blood circulation disorders and/or oncological diseases.
        The published study "COVID-19 and All-Cause Mortality Data by Age Group Reveals Risk of
COVID Vaccine-Induced Fatality is Equal to or Greater than the Risk of a COVID death for all Age
Groups Under 80 Years Old as of 6 February 2022" shows that the COVID-19 vaccines provide no
benefit to any healthy age group under 80 years and can only lead to a shortened life span.
        The published study "US COVID-19 Vaccines Proven to Cause More Harm than Good Based on
Pivotal Clinical Trial Data Analyzed Using the Proper Scientific Endpoint, “All Cause Severe Morbidity”"
analyzed the clinical trial data for all three US vaccines and confirmed the lack of any overall benefit.
There was an increase in morbidity which was highly statistically significant in all three vaccines. It
concluded, “Based on this data it is all but a certainty that mass COVID-19 immunization is hurting the
health of the population in general. Scientific principles dictate that the mass immunization with COVID-
19 vaccines must be halted immediately because we face a looming vaccine induced public health
catastrophe.”
        The published paper "Vascular and organ damage induced by mRNA vaccines: irrefutable proof
of causality" advises that the COVID-19 vaccine technology has failed and must be abandoned as it is a
direct cause of death. It summarizes evidence from experimental studies and from autopsies of patients
deceased after vaccination.
        The published study "Innate immune suppression by SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccinations: The role
of G-quadruplexes, exosomes, and MicroRNAs" quotes the following: In this paper, we present evidence
that vaccination induces a profound impairment in type I interferon signaling, which has diverse adverse
consequences to human health. We also identify potential profound disturbances in regulatory control of
protein synthesis and cancer surveillance. These disturbances potentially have a causal link to
neurodegenerative disease, myocarditis, immune thrombocytopenia, Bell’s palsy, liver disease, impaired
adaptive immunity, impaired DNA damage response and tumorigenesis.

Why have all these safety signs been ignored?



4.      The document “The Nonclinical Evaluation Report’ by Pfizer Australia showed that long term
safety data was not completed and collected even on animal testing. This indicates that the COVID-19
vaccines are at experimental stage. To be coerced in receiving experimental medication or face
termination of employment is in violation of protected rights under the Australian Human Rights
Commission Act 1986 and does not comply with the principles concerning permissible medical
experiments as per the Nuremberg Code.

      The Australian Constitution as per Section 51(23A) in conjunction with Clause 5 and Clause 109.
Chastened by the horror of the medical experimentation during                         Australia
amended its constitution in 1946 and introduced subsection 23Ato prevent any form of forced, imposed
and coerced medical treatment. Yet, this is exactly what we experienced. My employment was
unreasonably terminated because I did not consent to experimental medication that scientific data and
statistical research verify it is more dangerous and lethal than the disease.

          LifeSite news published an article where the president of Bayer’s Pharmaceuticals Division
Stefan Oelrich told international experts during a health conference that the mRNA COVID-19 shots are
“cell and gene therapy” marketed as “vaccines” to be palatable to the public. Quote: “I always like to say
if we had surveyed two years ago in the public - ‘would you be willing to take a gene or cell therapy and
inject it into your body?’ - we probably would have had a 95% refusal rate.” Not only are the vaccines
experimental but they are gene-alteration therapies deceitfully promoted as vaccines.

Why was a gene therapy treatment allowed on the market, for which fifteen years of safety data is
required, for a disease that posed no danger to a healthy individual?



5.      The published study "Effectiveness of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Bivalent
Vaccine" known as the Cleveland Study conclusively proves that Covid vaccines progressively destroy
the immune system. It damages the immune system in a dose-dependent manner. The more shots are
taken, the more damage is done to the immune system.

         COVID-19 injections do not prevent infection and do not prevent transmission. Policies and
legislation was written based on fabricated statements that the vaccines prevent transmission and
prevent infection. In a European Union official hearing Pfizer officially stated that they never tested their
product for transmission.

Why did health authorities concoct the statement that the Covid vaccines prevent transmission?

       The golden standard for medication efficacy is the Absolute Risk Reduction values of a
medication. The Absolute Risk Reduction for the Covid vaccines was from 0.8 to 1 % efficacy. Why did
the medical establishment forget this fact overnight and applied the manipulative Relative Risk
Reduction for the Covid vaccines?

Was it due to incompetence, corruption or malfeasance?



6.     We were advised that the Covid vaccines are safe and effective. We were advised that the Covid
vaccines will stop infection and transmission. Never before have we been exposed to such “False,
Deceptive & Misleading” statements from government institutions, and subjected to policies and
mandates based on “unsupported claims about the effectiveness of the so called vaccines”. What’s
worse is that Australia never had a pandemic. Exaggerated deaths of over 80 year olds were used to
impose fear and create a false state of emergency. Why?

A Royal Commission is essential if there is seriousness to assess the situation, to provide
answers, to identify and criminally prosecute the wrongdoers.
