                                                                                     INDEPENDENT
                                                                                         SCHOOLS
                                                                                        AUSTRALIA




COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT CQVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
DATE         15 December 2023

1.     ABOUT ISA

Independent Schools Australia (ISA) is the national peak body representing the Independent school sector. It
includes the eight state and territory Associations of Independent Schools (AISs). Through these
Associations, ISA represents 1,209 schools and over 668,600 students, accounting for approximately 17 per
cent of Australian school enrolments.

2.     KEY POLICY CONCERNS FOR SCHOOLS

SCHOOL CLOSURES AND MOVE TO ONLINE LEARNING
Non-government schools exist in a complex regulatory environment. They are registered as schools by state
and territory education authorities and must abide by all relevant state and territory legislation as well as
national legislation. Non-government schools also must meet all the requirements of the Australian
Education Act 2013 to meet ongoing conditions for funding.

Unclear requirements and at times contradictory requirements between the Australian Government and state
and territory governments, were highly problematic for Independent schools.
For example, by the time of the National Cabinet meeting in March 2020, several states had announced their
intention to close schools. However, after the National Cabinet meeting, the Prime Minister stated that
schools would stay open.

In late April 2020, the Australian Government Minister for Education imposed a funding condition on non­
government schools under the Australian Education Act 2013 which required schools to provide a physical
learning environment from the commencement of Term 2, 2020. This reinforced the Australian Government's
position that non-government schools had to remain open.

FUNDING ASSISTANCE FOR SCHOOLS
In April 2020 the Australian Government announced that some school funding could be brought forward to
assist schools. However, to access the early payment, schools had to give an undertaking that they would be
open in Term 2 and that they had a plan to have at least 50 per cent of students return to face-to-face
teaching by 1 June 2020.

This was extremely problematic for many Independent schools in states and territories where the health
advice from state authorities was for students to continue to engage in online learning and there were no
plans yet for the re-opening of schools. As a result of the condition, many schools did not apply for the early
payment even though they may have benefitted, because they were fearful of contravening the health advice
of their state or territory health department.

In May 2020, it was announced that $10 million of Special Circumstances funding was being made available
to non-government schools through the School Hygiene Assistance Fund for the 2019-20 financial year.
However, the funding was contingent on schools planning to have 50 per cent of their students back in the
classroom by 1 June 2020. Schools that had not responded to the offer of the early release of the July
payment and had not indicated that they would be open in Term 2 were told that they could be found in




2023 COVID RESPONSE INQUIRY ISA SUBMISSION.DOCX / 15-DEC-23                                              1/3
                                                                                                 INDEPENDENT
                                                                                                 SCHOOLS
                                                                                                 AUSTRALIA
COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT C0VID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY



breach of Section 78 of the Australian Education Act 2013, which could result in schools having any further
payments delayed until compliance was confirmed. It also meant that they would not be considered for
assistance under the School Hygiene Assistance Fund.

The Independent school sector also educates and cares for over 25,000 children aged from 3 months to five
years of age and employs over 8,000 early childhood educators. It became clear early in the pandemic
response that Early Childhood Education providers were struggling as parents kept their children home. In
April 2020 it was announced that non-government schools would have their payments automatically
increased. The further decision by the Australian Government to expand the Exceptional Circumstance
Supplementary Payment to support early childhood education and care services that were not eligible for the
JobKeeper Payment meant that services were able to receive additional funding. This additional funding
enabled many Early Childhood Education providers in the Independent sector to stay open during the
pandemic.

JOBKEEPER
As a result of school closures and the associated economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, many
Independent schools had large increases in the fee remission requested by struggling families. The provision
of JobKeeper allowed a level of financial certainty for many schools through the pandemic that enabled many
Independent schools to ‘weather the storm’ that was COVID-19.

JobKeeper also came with an amount of confusion for schools as policy and eligibility requirements were
developed at a rapid pace. The sector is aware however that a normal process of stakeholder consultation
was not possible given the required speed of implementation.

REPORTING AND ACCOUNTABILITY
There was some accommodation of reporting and accountability for non-government schools from the
Australian Government that eased the burden of schools in managing lockdowns, remote learning and other
issues during the pandemic.

These changes included the waiving of the requirement for A-E reporting by schools and changes to the
Non-Government School Census which enabled schools to maintain their enrolment count during lockdowns.

BOARDING SCHOOLS
Boarding schools had a particularly challenging time during COVID-19 managing lockdowns, health
mandates, border closures and quarantine requirements. Because of the number of interstate boarding
students in boarding schools, even schools not in lockdown were often managing students who lived in a
different state or territory with border closures and/or strict quarantine arrangements in place.

This meant that often students and families had to choose between being in school or being at home leading
to isolation from either their family or from their peers for some students. This significantly impacted many
regional and rural families. Despite the effort of the Australian Government, including the then Minister for
Regional Education, Senator McKenzie, to get an agreement on the ability of boarding students to move
across borders to attend school, this remained an ongoing issue throughout the pandemic.

ABORIGINAL AND TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER BOARDING STUDENTS
During the pandemic, there was significant concern about the ongoing viability of several Independent
boarding schools that solely serve the needs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students from remote
communities. In some states and territories, boarding schools were closed on health grounds due to
transmission concerns and at the same time, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students from remote
communities returned home before communities were closed to protect vulnerable populations.




2023 COVID RESPONSE INQUIRY ISA SUBMISSION.DOCX / 15-DEC-23                                             2/3
                                                                                                    INDEPENDENT
                                                                                                    SCHOOLS
                                                                                                    AUSTRALIA
COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT C0VID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY



The Department of Social Services quickly made positive changes to ABSTUDY payments to support
Indigenous students and boarding schools during the pandemic. Under the temporary arrangements,
boarding students who qualified for ABSTUDY or Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) boarding payments
at the start of the pandemic continued to qualify for payments. This enabled many Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander boarding schools to stay open.

After the pandemic, funding has been provided through the National Indigenous Australian Agency (NIAA) to
assist boarding providers in supporting students to reconnect to school following the impacts of COVID-19
and to enable boarding providers to better address the education, health and wellbeing needs of Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander boarding students and keep them engaged in school.

INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
The decision to close Australia’s borders by the Australian Government caused significant disruption to
international student enrolments and caused significant distress to students under 18 years who were in
Australia unaccompanied and were unable to return to their home country for an extended period, as well as
international students who were in their home country and were unable to return to Australia to continue
their learning.

While there was significant work undertaken to support the international education sector by the
Department of Education, the Department of Home Affairs, Austrade and other bodies, there was no financial
assistance for international education providers in any sector except the English language sector. While
eventually there was a process for exemptions to the Australian Government’s travel ban for Years 11 and
12 students from China, it was complex and impractical and dependent on the agreement of states and
territories. The failure of the Australian Government to implement any meaningful measures to assist the
welfare of overseas students was also a source of significant concern to the international education sector
and damaging to Australia’s international reputation.

STUDENT WELL-BEING AND SCHOOL REFUSAL/DISENGAGEMENT
Student wellbeing was a key concern for schools during the pandemic and it continues to impact students
now. Ongoing trends of school refusal suggest a link between the number and duration of COVID-related
lockdowns in the state or territory and an increase in school refusal.

Despite multiple requests from the non-government sector for support for student wellbeing during the
pandemic, however, none was forthcoming. More recently, the current Australian Government announced a
Student Wellbeing Boost to assist schools but there is still no clarity about the allocation of this funding to
individual schools and whether it will have any positive impact.

3.     CONCLUSION

It is widely acknowledged that many of the Australian Government’s COVID-19 pandemic responses were,
by necessity, undertaken in haste and without any of the usual processes that would normally accompany
the development of national measures of such scale. However, the different approaches to schooling
between the Australian Government and State and Territory governments caused significant confusion
among representative bodies, school boards, principals, teachers, parents and students. It seems clear that
the Australian Government was heavily invested in schools remaining open however, constitutionally school
education and health are the responsibility of State and Territory governments.

Better integration of decision-making between States and Territory governments and the Australian
Government about schooling but also across a range of other areas, including border control, would have
significantly reduced the confusion experienced by not only Independent schools but also the students who
attend them and the families of those students.




2023 COVID RESPONSE INQUIRY ISA SUBMISSION.DOCX / 15-DEC-23                                                3/3
