          I am making this submission to Australia's COVID-19 Response Inquiry, offering a perspective
          on the measures taken by the Federal Government during the pandemic, including the roles
          and responsibilities of government, the key health response measures implemented during
          the pandemic, the broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and lockdowns,
          and the financial support offered to individuals, industry and businesses.


     1.     Governance
1.        It is important, from the outset, to commend all levels of government in Australia for their
          swift declaration of a public health emergency. This decisive action, which facilitated the
          implementation of widespread restrictions on individual liberties and freedoms, was a
          necessary and proportionate measure to manage the spread of the highly lethal SARS-CoV-2
          virus; to “flatten the curve” of COVID-19 serious illness leading to hospitalisation; and ensure
          that Australia would not experience an even greater crisis of excess mortality in future years.
          While some may argue that these restrictions were disproportionate and infringed the most
          vital personal freedoms, it is important to acknowledge the unprecedented nature of the
          pandemic, serving also as a reminder of the government's prime mandate: to spare
          Australians from COVID-19 mortality above all other competing objectives.

     2.      Key health response measures
2.        The Australian Federal Government's role in sourcing and approving COVID-19 vaccines has
          been exemplary, showcasing a commitment to public health, safety and transparency. The
          government's prompt action in securing vaccine deals and expediting of the testing and
          approval processes, reflected a necessary urgency in response to the global health crisis.
          Whilst the real-world effectiveness of these vaccines in Australia has been a subject of debate
          because of “breakthrough” infections; their limited duration of protection; their limited to no
          effect on SARS-CoV-2 transmission; their limited effectiveness against variants; and, their
          significant but rare risk profile, it is crucial to acknowledge that these vaccines have
          significantly reduced the severity of COVID-19 cases, leading to lower hospitalisation and
          mortality rates.1 Despite Australia's soaring and persistent excess and COVID-19 mortality since
          the vaccination rollout, these vaccines mitigated the strain on the healthcare system which is
          evidently now fully recovered. The vaccines protected the most vulnerable populations - the
          aged, comorbid and immunocompromised - underscoring their value. Without these
          vaccines, it could have been so much worse.

3.        The government's reliance on expert advice for vaccine approval, despite criticisms of
          potential biases or conflicts of interest, demonstrated a trust in scientific expertise and
          established regulatory processes, even those beyond Australia's borders. This approach, while
          overlooking alternative viewpoints or contrary emerging data, ensured a streamlined and
          efficient vaccine rollout and a consistent, unwavering narrative of the safety and effectiveness
          of COVID-19 vaccines to ensure continued vaccination uptake. The achievement of COVID-19
          vaccination objectives facilitated our emergence from brutal and oppressive lockdowns,
          thereby paving the way out of the pandemic for the nation.

4.        While critics may highlight the expense incurred in procuring vaccines that ultimately went
          unused and had to be disbanded, it's important to consider the context of uncertainty during
          the pandemic. The government's decision to purchase many surplus vaccines per person in
          the population, though resulting in extensive wastage, was a necessary step to ensure vaccine
          availability for all Australians. This proactive strategy, albeit costly to the taxpayer, was
          preferable to facing a shortage in the face of a rapidly evolving public health crisis. The
          disposal of these vaccines, therefore, while not ideal, was a necessary price to pay for ensuring
          the nation's preparedness and safety. Additionally, by investing heavily in vaccines, the
          government contributed to a broader economic ecosystem that incentivises innovation,
          motivating the pharmaceutical industry to undertake rapid and groundbreaking research,


     1 Liu, B., Gidding, H., Stepien, S., Cretikos, M., & Macartney, K. (2022). Relative effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccination with 3
     compared to 2 doses against SARS-CoV-2 B.TT529 (Omicron) among an Australian population with low prior rates of
     SARS-CoV-2 infection. Vaccine, 40(43), 6288-6294. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.vaccine.2022.09.029
      especially in times of global health emergencies. This transfer of public funds, though
      substantial, can be seen as an investment in future medical advancements, to support public
      health for future pandemics when, not if, they occur.

5.    The Federal Government's sizeable investment was supported by providing indemnity to
      vaccine manufacturers against claims related to vaccine injuries. In doing so, the government
      effectively removed a significant barrier to rapid vaccine development and distribution. This
      indemnity was crucial in ensuring that pharmaceutical companies could focus on innovation
      and production without the threat of legal repercussions when their products caused injury or
      death. It is imperative that the risks and benefits of public health interventions should be
      shared societally, not by private or corporate interests. This approach, while perhaps
      controversial, ensures that pharmaceutical companies can continue their groundbreaking
      work in vaccine development using novel technologies like mRNA, which has become a
      necessity for addressing not just the current pandemic but the future one when it will occur.

  3. Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or
  lockdowns (for example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and
  access to screening and other preventive health measures)

 6.       The rigorous enforcement of lockdowns, a key strategy in Australia's response to the COVID-19
          pandemic, merits recognition for its effectiveness in significantly reducing the spread of the
          virus and ensuring that Australia's soaring excess mortality would not be even greater. This
          decisive action, while primarily focused on an immediate and unseen threat, led to a
          necessary shift in healthcare priorities. As the healthcare system concentrated its efforts on
          managing the pandemic, routine screenings and preventive health measures, which play a
          crucial role in managing chronic and life-threatening conditions, experienced a temporary
          deprioritisation. While record rates of excess mortality for conditions like cancer, dementia,
          and diabetes is concerning, we know that it could have been so much worse without the
          exclusive focus on COVID-19 mortality guiding our public health emergency policies. The
          measures implemented, particularly the lockdowns, were driven by the urgent need to
          prevent a surge in COVID-19 deaths. This goal was paramount, as the virus had the potential
          to cause widespread fatalities for all Australians, to overwhelm healthcare systems, and inflict
          long-lasting damage on communities and economies. In this context, the prioritisation of
          COVID-19 mortality prevention against all else was not only justified, but essential. When the
          next pandemic occurs, the Federal Government should similarly adopt a “zero-COVID”
          approach to ensure that “broader health supports” are strategically deprioritised, thereby
          focusing resources and efforts on mitigating the exceptionally greater threat posed by the
          novel pathogen.

     5. Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply
     chain and transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for
     specific industries)

  AND

     6.     Financial support for individuals (including income support payments)

 7.       While it is acknowledged that Australia is currently contending with rampant inflation,
          heightened cost of living pressures, a strained housing market and significant labour
          shortages across various industries, and, while it is also acknowledged that these impacts are
          largely and directly attributable to pandemic policies such as border closures, lockdowns,
          movement restrictions, vaccination mandates and isolation orders, these issues must be
          weighed against the potential consequences of a laissez-faire approach to the pandemic.
          These economic challenges, though substantial and likely long-lasting, pale in comparison to
          the possible outcomes had the virus been allowed to spread unchecked. Unprecedented
          market restrictions and loose fiscal policy were essential trade-offs in the management of the
          pandemic. SARS-CoV-2 was, and remains, a highly lethal virus capable of causing significant
death and devastation for all Australians. COVID-19 was and is an indiscriminate disease that
kills all Australians irrespective of their demography, income, race, religion or health, and
therefore, support for industry, businesses and individuals during the pandemic years was
essential in the prevention of all-cause and COVID-19 mortality. When the next pandemic
occurs, we need to create these important incentives for individuals and businesses to do the
right thing and embrace all public health interventions as the necessary and only path. The
ongoing and significant social and economic costs we might face are difficult, but necessary
ones for us all to bear. In light of these considerations, it becomes imperative for future
policy-making to strategically prioritise such significant expenditures against all other
competing objectives.
