To whom it may concern,

I am writing to you to put forth my personal story regarding the impact of the COVID-19 lockdowns,
restrictions and vaccine mandates whilst providing alternate suggestions for future instances.

My Story

When the mandates were first introduced in September 20211 was hesitant to take the vaccine. Not
long beforehand the Australian Prime Minister at the time of the 'no jab no job' policy enforcement,
stated on the 21st of July 2021, only months before, that 'people make their own decisions about
their own health and their own bodies. That's why we don't have mandatory vaccination in relation
to the general population.' Yet the state government stated that employers required their workers to
be vaccinated against COVID 19. At the time of the mandate's implementation co-chair of ATAGI, Dr
Christopher Blyth, stated that 'ATAGI has not provided a recommendation for mandates at any time.'
However, the Victorian Government commented that it consulted with relevant stakeholders. If
ATAGI, a medical body whose exact role it is to provide advice to the medical administration of
vaccines in Australia is not informing the government, then who did? I did not feel like the decision
to or not to take this drug was completely my own, nor was I filled with confidence that the vaccine
being mandated by the government had gone through the proper processes to become available to
the public as key stakeholders were being not being consulted and/or ignored. I was also concerned
as the manufacturing companies had completed the shortest trials ever on any vaccine. This did not
fill me with confidence that it had adequately been safety tested. There was no way that any medical
professional could confidently say that the short and long term effects of this drug were known nor
could they say that this was safe and effective. I began to research the brands that were available to
me and was still not filled with confidence. As I was planning to begin trying to start a family the
following year, I was mainly concerned with how these vaccines would impact my fertility and
becoming pregnant, how it would impact a developing foetus or how it would impact a breastfeeding
infant. Between reading each of the Product Information sheets for the available vaccines Australia
had presented, each brand states one, some or all of these comments:

    -        No data is available on the vaccine's placental transfer or excretion in milk
    -        It is unknown whether the vaccine is excreted in milk
    -        Risks to breastfed newborns cannot be excluded
    -   No adequate and well controlled studies have been completed with pregnant women and
        are insufficient to inform vaccine associate risks in pregnancy
    -   There is limited experience and amount of data with the vaccine in pregnant women, or
        women who became pregnant after receiving the vaccine
    -        The data is insufficient to inform on vaccine associated risks
    -        Vaccination with this vaccine is not recommended in pregnancy.

*please find the links to the Product Information sheets

pi-covid-19-vaccine_0.pdf (tga.gov.au)

COMIRNATY[Tris/Sucrose Presentation] (tga.gov.au)

pdf (tga.gov.au)

This is only looking at the health of myself and my future children through a fertility, pregnancy and
lactation lens, this does not include the other concerns I had for my overall health with the other
risks mentioned in the Product Information for each individual vaccine. I was deeply concerned
about taking any of the COVID 19 vaccines because of this lack of information. I was terrified of
putting my health at risk and even more so risking the chances of becoming pregnant, starting a
family of my own and the impact that this one forced decision could have on my children.

I had come to the conclusion that I would not take this experimental drug that seriously lacked safety
testing and the data to go with it. I had to prepare myself to lose my career and anything else that
might come with that such as losing my house. When I stated that I was not going to be an active
participant of the mandate, I felt that I was personally looked down upon and grouped politically as
an 'anti-vaxxer' because I wasn't going along with the 'mainstream narrative' calling the vaccine 'safe
and effective'. I had to inform my principal of my decision to put my health and safety first, and felt
obliged to explain to him my reasons for a personal medical choice. I then had to share this decision
with my work colleagues. Upon making my decision known to colleagues I was met with comments
and pressures to the effect of 'you're not here to tell me you're not taking the vaccine too are you?',
'go and talk to the doctors about it, they'll know if it's safe' and 'are you really doing this? Are you
really not coming back to finish the year because it's a lot to take over someone's class'. Not only was
this embarrassing but I felt as though my reputation was in question for a personal, medical decision
that had nothing to do with anyone other than myself. I felt isolated and made to feel ashamed of
putting myself first. As a^^^J teacher at the time, I was stood down while others worked from
home due to the staggered return to school start. It was then clear to my colleagues and school
community why I had no returned to work which also made me feel like my views were on display
without having to voice them and as if I was being judged on them.

I had given 110% of myself each and every day to the students I taught, the communities I worked
within and the colleagues I taught alongside. Yet my abilities and skillset were being thrown out the
door because of my personal medical choice, something that had nothing to do with my
competencies or professionalism. I felt as though everything I had done to provide a quality
education to every student that came across my path and those put in my care was insignificant. I
lost a job that I loved going to everyday. Students lost a teacher who had put in hours and hours of
work into their learning and education. I lost my income which was my family's primary financial
stability. This not only impacted our day to day lifestyle and living expenses, it impacted our
upcoming^^^^l plans which were then too late to change. It created a massive stress and burden
regarding paying our mortgage and day to day bills. It created uncertainty for my family and stress
within my relationship with my husband. This also created massive stress for my family as I had to
find new work, which earned me significantly less that what I was earning as a teacher employed by
the                             which meant that we seriously needed to adjust our lifestyle to this
new situation which we weren't prepared for.

As a result of being stood down, I was forced to use a large chunk of my sick leave to survive, I was
forced to take one year's leave without pay to ensure I had a position to return to in case the
mandates were dropped. However, I was forced to take this option to keep this position I had worked
hard to earn. Had I not taken this option I would have been terminated, lost my accrued annual and
sick leave and had no position to return to. This then impacted my rights to maternity leave as I did
fall pregnant in^^|but could not access maternity leave through^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^f
because I had not worked the required amount of weeks necessary. Had I not been stood down and
forced to take this leave, I would have worked in my position as a teacher under my ongoing contract
and received my maternity leave and been able to care for my child rather than being forced to go
back to work. To ensure that I could spend more time with my child I had to request to use my long
service leave entitlements. As a result of the mandates I was denied my basic human rights. I was
forced to choose between my health and safety and my career that I had spent so much time and
effort working towards which jeopardised my family and our future.
When I initially put forth my medical certificates for my sick leave, I was denied. When I called the
                                had my principal call                   as well the leave was then
accepted. I was yet again made to feel like I had done something wrong for putting myself first and
not being allowed to use the entitlements that were rightfully mine. Again, this just added to the
serious stress I was dealing with.

I sent letters to many members of                               a nd the ministers involved in this
process with little and in some cases no response asking for the safety information being provided to
mandate these vaccines. I sent through and mentioned the Product Information sheets which could
not guarantee my safety in taking a forced drug, this was ignored.

Throughout September to December of 2021, I received constant reminders through text and email
to 'upload my vaccination certificate' as well as termination threats. In December 2021 I received
threats from                                     withhold my holiday pay which I was entitled to as I
used sick leave after being stood down that ceased at the end of the school term. These threats filled
me with anxiety, unease and uncertainty for my future. I was forced to look for other employment
opportunities which was exceedingly difficult due to each and every workplace requiring their staff to
provide a valid vaccination certificate. I was truly made to feel like an outcast and had to make
impossible decisions in a time of so much uncertainty and fear. There was stressor upon stressor
throughout this whole time.

How can anyone say that the 'no jab no job' policy is not discriminatory? It was simple, take a drug or
lose your job. Regardless of what anyone was detailing about it preventing individuals from
contracting COVID-19, stopping transmission and spreading the disease, lessening the effects if
contracted etc, compelling and coercing individuals to take anything is nothing short of a breach of
human rights. How can anyone be forced to take something they don't want? As mentioned, even
when I requested information from my employer to ensure that I could provide informed consent,
my requests were ignored, yet I still lost my job, my career that I had dedicated myself to for many
years and my livelihood which then had significant financial and mental ramifications.

This paves the way for employers and/or governments to force citizens to comply with the most
dangerous and unrealistic measures to simply live. I myself was unable to provide valid informed
consent because no information was ever given to me by
regarding the COVID 19 vaccination, not during the time of the mandate being enforcement nor
anytime thereafter. Therefore, this was coercion plain and simple. I sent multiple emails and made
phone calls with general and specific questions regarding the vaccine, requesting information which
would allow me to give my informed consent but none was provided.

Please also note in the time prior to and while the mandates were being enforced the Fair Work
Commission, the Australian Council of Trade Unions, Safe Work Australia and the Business Council of
Australia all made similar comments stating that employers could not require employees to be
vaccinated against coronavirus to retain their employment. Yet, the policy was enforced.

The enforcement of 'no jab no job' has absolutely violated national and international laws and
declarations that have been put in place to prevent these very types of incidences from occurring.
These breaches include violations to the;

        The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948 (UN);
        Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights 2005 (UN);
        International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 1966 (UN) ('ICCPR');
    •   Australia's ratification via Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986 (Cth) which
        enshrines the ICCPR and associated Commonwealth of Australia law; and
    •   Victoria's human rights legislation is informed by the above, for example section article 10 of
        the Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 (Vic).

The 'no jab no job' policy also breaches the Australian Constitution , Part V 51. xxiiiA which reads
'The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for peace, order and
good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: ... the provision of maternity allowance,
widows' pensions, child endowment, unemployment, pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefit,
medical and dental services (but not as to authorise any form of civil conscription), benefits to
students and family allowances.'

I hope that with the establishment of this Inquiry, the statements and values of the legal documents
mentioned above will be full recognised to ensure that human rights are met regardless of events
and circumstances. I am not the only person who has been adversely affected by these mandates. I
myself chose not to take a COVID 19 vaccination, many others did too and many more were left with
no choice but to comply to survive. My voice is one of many, there are others also speaking out and
others who feel too defeated and have lost any hope that their voices will make a difference. I feel
deeply discouraged and frustrated that those who are elected to represented the community,
created a fear campaign and pitted people against each other, forcing people to choose between
their health, values, basic human rights and keeping a roof over their heads and food on the table.
Likewise, the very bodies who are set up to support the most extreme of injustices have not fulfilled
their role. So many people, myself included, have been failed. This then ripples out and has impacted
families too, like my own. So far, my human rights have been completely eliminated. I was forced out
of a job for no valid reason and have suffered mentally, socially and financially as a result.

I will continue to fight for justice in this matter, as the 'no jab no job' event has had a major impact
on myself and my family since its implementation.

The Role of the Government

It is clear that the federal government took a weak position on the COVID-19 response by handing off
its decision making to the state governments to bypass the Australian Constitution. As mentioned,
the Prime Minister commented that we would not have a federal vaccination policy, so handed the
responsibility of enforcing this to the states who came down heavy handedly. This ruined livelihoods,
businesses, social, emotional and physical health for hundreds of thousands. People are still being
ignored and given the run around in relation to their adverse reactions, the healthcare system is not
reporting the true amount of adverse reactions and the governing bodies did not stepped in end the
vaccination policy when adverse reactions did begin to occur. The government took a narrow minded
approach, ignoring not only medical opinions by basic common sense by forcing a nation to be
injected with an experimental vaccine that had not been tested anywhere near as long as the
shortest time it took to get other vaccines on the market. Medical professionals, and anyone for that
matter, who spoke out with sufficient evidence against the universal vaccination policy was shut
down and slandered. These were like scenes from^^^^^^^^HThe State and Federal Governments
allowed all of this to happen.



As a school teacher I personally witnessed the impact that the lockdowns had on students (who are
just children), parents, families and the wider school community. Stating 'we're all in this together'
was a slap in the face slogan to make everyone feel as though we all should just get on with the
circumstance without actually considering the impact that the rules had on each and every person in
the community. We had children not being allowed to use a playground, human beings not allowed
to leave their house for longer than a single hour a day and not being allowed to attend the shopping
centre more than once a day too. This was madness, cooping people up like caged animals. People,
regardless of their opinions and stance, are free willed and free thinkers who should have been able
to make up their own minds about whether it was safer for them to engage with others, move within
society or stay in the comfort of their own homes. I witnessed children spend more time on the
computer and social media, engaging less with friends and being consumed by the internet all to
their detriment. I saw children nervous and anxious to return to school, extremely fearful of
contracting a virus, lacking basic social skills to cope with everyday life, slipping into mental health
issues and failing to meet their academic potential as a direct result of the 'online education' that
was provided. Now, this is not to slam teachers, who did it tough personally and professionally, but
this 'online education' was a shambles compared to the kind of education that can be tailored to
student's needs in an actual learning environment where conversations can be had, a teacher can
give different explanations to consolidate concepts, hands on materials can be provided and learning
from peers can truly occur.
The damage that this has had on our healthcare system has and still is absolutely abhorrent. Waitlists
for all kinds of mental and physical health conditions are years long, it is insanely hard to get an
appointment let alone actual treatment. We have people living with all sorts of pain as a result of a
backed up health care system because people could not be attended to during lockdowns and
because of the mental impact that the lockdowns have had on people too. We have issues such as
socialisation issues in young children, speech issues because they haven't been around others to
learn, worsening of mental health issues for all ages, all of which society will have to support through
more taxes to meet the needs of this burden, a burden solely heightened by locking people indoors
and not providing the care that was needed.

Suggestions

-adhere to the Australian Constitution and other key foundational documents that support human
rights

-establish a committee, made up of citizen elected members of parliament from non-governing
parties, who ensures that the government is taking advice from those with the relevant skill and
knowledge on both sides of the arguement. Where the government does not produce
documentation, answer questions directly or honestly, members can be personally fined or lose their
job

-take and disseminate advice from specialists, from both or all sides of the argument, ensuring it is
shared publicly, freely and without bias or persecution from media and social media platforms

-seek advice, support and strategies from other states, countries and professionals who are already
immersed in issues we might or will face in the future

-ensure employers are able to provide the relevant documentation to staff to ensure their Safety and
ability to make informed choices where they employer will be penalised heavily if they do not
provide this

-no lockdowns, regardless of the issue. We now have delivery and click and collect services to meet
our basic needs if people do not want to leave ither homes
-allowing people to attended preventative, diagnostic and treatment medical appointments face to
face

-businesses to have the ability to make flexible arrangements for workers, where applicable, but not
be able to enforce medical procedures on its worked, nor store their medical information

-an overhaul and investigation into the role of the government, both at a state and federal level, to
ensure that the government is complying with the expectation and duties of its job, adheres to its
obligations and does not operate outside of this.
