    na                                                                               NATIONAL
                                                                                     ASSOCIATION

    va                                                                               FOR THE
                                                                                     VISUAL ARTS


        Independent Panel
        Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
        Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
        COVID-19lnquiry (5),pmc.qov.au

        14 December 2023

        NAVA welcomes the opportunity to contribute to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19
        Response Inquiry.

        The National Association for the Visual Arts (NAVA) is an independent membership
        organisation that brings together the many voices of the visual arts, craft and design sector
        to improve the fundamental conditions of work and practice. We do this through advocacy,
        education and the Code of Practice for the Visual Arts, Craft and Design.

        NAVA was established in 1983 as the peak body for the visual arts. Today, our community is
        made up of over 50,000 members, subscribers, friends and followers, consisting of artists,
        arts workers and arts organisations.

        After enduring over six years of debilitating policy shifts and funding cuts, the visual arts,
        craft and design sector was hit by the pandemic, already fatigued and under-resourced.
        Within two weeks of the shutdown, less than 50% of creative businesses were still trading
        according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics.1 The situation worsened with 96% reporting
        cancelled programs, 88% lost revenue, and 58% reported ineligibility for the Australian
        Government’s JobKeeper package.2

        Lockdowns, cancellations, and a lack of financial support had devastating, long-lasting
        consequences. The sector faced significant challenges throughout the pandemic,
        underscoring the need for the Inquiry to acknowledge these struggles and provide practical
        recommendations for a more robust response to future crises.

        In response to the Terms of References, NAVA advises the following:

        Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of
        state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National
        Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection
        Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

        The Commonwealth Government measures, including border controls, economic stimulus
        packages, and public health campaigns left many artists, arts workers and organisations



PO Box 60                             18000 4 NAVA (6282)                   ABN 16 003 229 285
Potts Point NSW 1335                  nava.net.au nava@visualarts.net.au
 excluded from JobSeeker, JobKeeper, and the cash flow boost due to irregular incomes or
 university and local government affiliations.

 The 2022 National Arts Participation Survey by Creative Australia shows that 97% of
 Australians engage with the arts in some way, either by listening to music, reading, creating
 art, engaging with the arts online or by attending arts and cultural events and festivals.3
 Despite this widespread connection to the arts, there was a missed opportunity to
 commission Australian artists and designers in the development of communications,
 presenting a valuable avenue to inject income into a severely impacted sector. Moreover, it
 would have served as a public acknowledgment of the intrinsic value of art and artists. Such
 an approach could have effectively reached and resonated with people, offering support to
 artists, fostering confidence, and inspiring action.

 Each state and territory government enforced varying public health measures tailored to
 their local context and virus spread. COVID-19 lockdowns and border closures in one state
 had widespread repercussions for artists nationwide. For instance, an artist in Perth invested
 years preparing for a show in Sydney, only to face complete cancellation, partial disruption,
 or logistical challenges in transporting the artwork to the gallery due to border closures.
 Compounding the issue, artists were limited to accessing state support programs only in
 their residence state, even if their work was affected in another state.

 NAVA received widespread reports from visual artists and organisations encountering
 difficulties accessing COVID support payments. Issues include:
     •   Difficulty entering the equivalent of hours lost into the payments application form.
     •   Delays in receiving disaster payments.
     •   Conflicting advice from Centrelink regarding reporting freelance income for
         JobKeeper.
     •   Sole trader artists reporting to JobKeeper through the app received lower payments,
         as they could not claim costs without submitting profit and loss statements.
     •   Confusion surrounding the applicability of profit and loss statements for artists, with
         inadequate communication on the matter.
     •    Income support eligibility was not opened to universities and local government,
         jeopardising hundreds of galleries and museums, their collections, and their
         thousands of staff.
     •   Artists earning below the GST registration threshold were unable to meet the
         requirement for some of the COVID support payments in states like South Australia.
     •   Disparities in support, with artists in Sydney New South Wales eligible for a micro
         business grant where they received $1,500 a fortnight until the lockdown was lifted,
         while interstate artists with cancelled exhibitions in New South Wales were excluded.
     •   In Victoria, COVID-19 disaster payments were not automatically renewed from the
         previous lockdown, requiring artists to reapply without notification.

 NAVA recommends a comprehensive strategy to integrate arts and culture into the
 Commonwealth Government’s crisis response. This includes:
    • Recognising artists as valuable contributors to society and the economy.



na
va
     •   Actively involve Australian artists in developing communications campaigns, actively
         leveraging their creativity to effectively reach and resonate with the public, and
         injecting income to the sector through commissions.
     •   Emphasising equitable access to crisis package for all in the arts industry, including
         artists, arts workers and those excluded during COVID-19 such as local government
         and university museums, galleries and art schools.
     •   Harmonising the interpretation of income fluctuations for artists across Centrelink
         and the ATO
     •   Ensuring consistency in support across federal and state levels.
     •   Acknowledging the cross-border nature of artists’ work to mitigate the impact of
         cancellations in one state on artists from another.


 Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for
 example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and
 other preventive health measures).

 Throughout this period, NAVA undertook several snap surveys to understand the
 relationship between the pandemic, the incomes of artists and arts workers, and mental
 health. Reduced hours and the loss of contracted work and commissions due to the
 pandemic resulted in income declines and negative mental health outcomes. Housing stress
 heightened the likelihood of significant or extreme mental health impacts for artists and arts
 workers. In addition, reduced sales capacity affected artists' incomes and mental health.

     •   Over 80% of visual artists earned less than $25,000 in the 2020-21 financial year and
         half faced income declines of up to 100%.
     •   Gallery closures affected 44% of visual artists who generate income from art sales,
         and led to a 72% drop in sales.
     •   Art making decreased by almost 40% as artists sought alternative sources of income
         to survive.
     •   50% of the sector reported concerns about their future.
     •   Career momentum for early and mid-career artists was severely derailed.
     •   In arts organisations, 44% reported reduced working hours, 38% lost contracts and
         73% of arts organisations across the country faced exhibition cancellations or
         postponements.
     •   The mental health impact was devastating, with 49% of artists and 51% of art
         workers reporting significant or extreme impact.

 NAVA commends Support Act for expanding its consultative service for artists, arts workers
 and managers to the visual arts. Confidential Support Hotline sessions continue to be
 offered in partnership with AccessEAP, a not-for-profit Employee Assistance Program
 provider.

 During the pandemic, the Commonwealth Government boosted funding for crisis relief in the
 arts through Support Act, covering music and the live performing arts, but it omitted



na
va
 support for the visual arts. Despite NAVA’s request to the Minister for the Arts for
 inclusion, the visual arts sector remains excluded.

 At the start of 2020, NAVA re-opened the Artists’ Benevolent Fund and raised approximately
 $300,000 in donations which was distributed as $2,000 crisis payments. The application
 process and eligibility criteria are similar to the Support Act Crisis Relief Fund.

 In anticipation of potential future crises, NAVA asserts the essential need for crisis relief
 funding to be extended to visual arts practitioners either via Support Act or through NAVA’s
 Artists’ Benevolent Fund.


 International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with
 regard to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with
 international partners for domestic use in Australia).

 The challenges posed by international policies, particularly concerning border closures and
 vaccine supply deals, had a significant impact on Australians both at home and abroad.
 Artists stranded overseas were unable to access any support. Advice received by some
 artists was that they were theoretically eligible for income support payments but were unable
 to receive the payments as they were overseas.

 NAVA advocates for a more flexible approach in extending financial support to artists in
 need, regardless of their location. This is crucial for ensuring a fair and comprehensive
 response to the difficulties posed by international circumstances.


 Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and
 transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).

 The COVID-19 pandemic posed several challenges for artists, arts workers and
 organisations. This includes:

 First Nations Fallout
 Many First Nations Art Centres experienced a complete loss of income due to COVID-19
 safety closures. The economic impact was immediately felt, with remote community art
 centres experiencing a cessation of tourist income and artists returning home for safety,
 limiting access to alternative forms of income.

 In June 2020, Desart4 reported the immediate and significant impacts felt by art centres
 nationally:
     •       30.0% fall in average sales
     •       59.7% fall in the averagenumber of artworks produced
     •       46.0% fall in the averagenumber of artworks sold by artcentres
     •       31.1% fall in the averagenumber of artists active at each art centre.

 A December 2020 follow-up reported anecdotal information suggesting improved sales for
 art centres who maximised their online presence and pivoted to an e-commerce model.

na
va
 However, overall production and participation remained low, leading to a sustained fall in the
 number of artists producing artworks and an ongoing deficit in the number of artworks made.
 This saw more artworks sold than produced over the six months to 31 December.5

 Additionally, First Nations artists in regional areas faced income challenges due to reduced
 visitation to Keeping Places and cultural tourism centres and galleries through which
 community members earn an income.

 Transport costs
 COVID-19 led to scheduling changes that significantly affected touring exhibitions. The
 cancellations resulted in revenue loss, often compounded by unbudgeted storage and
 additional freight costs due to national and state border closures.

 Supply chain issues
 A NAVA survey in early 2022 found that 12% of visual artists encountered difficulties
 obtaining art materials due to COVID-19 border closures.

 Inadequate access to financial assistance
 While wage subsidies assisted eligible workers, they fell short of constituting meaningful
 investment in the industry. Independent, non-profit and commercial businesses, deprived of
 self-generated income, struggled to meet non-staffing costs and faced high risk of closure
 during the hibernation period.

 Numerous surveys undertaken throughout the height of the pandemic period demonstrated
 significant gaps in access to Government relief packages.

 In August 2019, over one million casual employees had been with their current employer for
 less than 12 months, with 33.9% of Arts and Recreation Services employees falling into this
 category. Young people, constituting 51.8% of short-term casuals in Arts and Recreation
 Services, were particularly affected.6 A NAVA survey in 2021 found that only 21 % of visual
 artists were eligible to receive JobSeeker payments in 2020-21.7

 For the 6 weeks from 1 July 2021 to mid-August, the I Lost My Gig survey, of
 which NAVA is a partner, found that 823 visual arts events or shows had been cancelled,
 equating to $1.65 million in lost income. The survey also found that 33% of respondents to
 the survey were eligible for federal COVID relief packages and only 16% for state packages.

 Many art galleries and organisations had no access to JobKeeper and the cash flow boost.
 Local government institutions and their employees were excluded - that’s every regional and
 suburban gallery and museum in Australia. The lifeblood of their communities, with nowhere
 to go.

 Lack of Insurance
 As public health orders fluctuated, NAVA consistently advocated for a government-backed
 insurance scheme to instil confidence in the visual arts and craft sector amid fluctuating
 public health orders. Specifically, NAVA emphasised the importance of ensuring artists'
 payment in the event COVID-19 related exhibition cancellations. This call aligned with


na
va
 industry-wide requests for a government-backed business interruption insurance scheme8 to
 cover costs like rerouting travelling exhibitions and ensuring payments post-cancellation.

 Without insurance, galleries hesitated to commission new work, turning to collection-based
 exhibitions, limiting opportunities for artists, particularly early-career individuals. New
 commissions play a crucial role in a visual artist's career, providing opportunities for reviews,
 discussions, media coverage, and networking with curators. A national insurance scheme
 could have alleviated some unexpected costs incurred by business interruptions due to
 public health orders and border closures, such as shifting programs online, storing artworks,
 and redirecting pre-planned interstate and international exhibitions.

 RISE
 Eligibility criteria for the $200m Restart Investment to Sustain and Expand (RISE) Fund
 originally excluded individual artists and approximately 75% of all art galleries due to their
 connection to local government or universities. This is the majority of the visual arts.

 In June 2021, the guidelines were revised to allow local governments and sole traders with
 employees to apply. In October 2021, the RISE program guidelines were again updated to
 include rescheduling costs for projects impacted by COVID-19 restrictions and extend
 eligibility to previous recipients to apply for additional costs incurred due to rescheduling due
 to COVID-19. While these were important changes, they came too late to have a notable
 impact on the visual arts sector.


 Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

 Inadequate access to financial assistance
 JobKeeper and JobSeeker were vital lifelines for many in the industry, but the exclusions
 from eligibility posed significant challenges. Notably, 70% of artists who earn a living through
 teaching9 were left out along with universities, university galleries and more than 250
 galleries, arts centres, festivals and programs run through local governments.

 Casual artists and arts workers with less than twelve months of engagement faced barriers
 and irregular incomes made it difficult for some to access income support. Despite
 temporary expansions of JobSeeker criteria for sole traders affected by the pandemic, artists
 and arts workers struggled to demonstrate eligibility to Centrelink, hindering their access to
 support programs.

 In some cases, the $750 JobKeeper payment exceeded part-time workers’ earnings, leading
 to reductions in means-tested government payments. This disproportionately affected part­
 time workers balancing employment with caregiving or studying, as the $1,500 per fortnight
 cut into their existing payments and increased employer demands for hours.

 Superannuation Depletion
 The early release of superannuation during the pandemic, intended to provide financial
 support, disproportionately affected artists, who often lacked alternative means of
 assistance.


na
va
 The most recent 2017 study by Professor David Throsby on the economic circumstances of
 arts practitioners,10 revealed that nearly half of artists are members of a superannuation
 scheme with an employer. The 2017 report found some artists have some other means of
 providing for their future financial security such as personal savings or investments, or
 support from a partner or family. Although the percentage of artists without financial
 arrangements decreased from 14% in 2009 to 5% in 2016, the 2017 report indicated that
 40% still considered their provisions inadequate.

 The government’s superannuation release program further exacerbated the situation, as
 over 2.6 million Australians, including many artists, accessed up to up to $20,000 of their
 retirement savings, posing lasting challenges to artists’ long-term financial security.

 To address challenges faced by artists, arts workers, and organisations during the COVID-
 19 pandemic and provide a foundation for a more resilient and supportive framework for
 future crises, NAVA recommends:
     • First Nations Support
             o Establish targeted financial support for First Nations Art Centres to mitigate
                 income loss, especially in remote communities and for artists dependent on
                 tourism.
     • Financial Assistance and Eligibility
             o Strengthen financial support programs for the arts sector, ensuring inclusive
                 eligibility criteria that account for the diverse nature of employment within the
                 industry.
             o Rectify exclusions in relief packages.
     • Insurance Scheme for the Arts
             o Establish a government-backed insurance scheme tailored for the visual arts
                 and craft sector.
             o Provide coverage for business interruptions, exhibition cancellations, and
                 associated costs like online program transitions, artwork storage, freight and
                 redirection of planned exhibitions.
     • Superannuation
             o Re-evaluate policies related to the early release of superannuation during
                 crises, considering the long-term financial impact on artists.




 Please don’t hesitate to contact us for any further information we can provide.


 Sincerely,

 Penelope Benton               Leya Reid
 Executive Director            Advocacy and Communications Manager




na
va
 https://www.abs.gov.au/AUSSTATS/abs(a).nsf/Previousproducts/5676.0.55.003Main%20Features2Week%20Co
 mmencinq%2030%20March%202020?opendocument&tabname=SummarY&prodno=5676.0.55.003&issue=Wee
 k%20Commencinq%2030%20March%202020&num=&view=

 2            https://culturecounts.cc/bloq/covid-19-impact-on-cultural-industries-april-snapshot

 3 https://creative.qov.au/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/National-Arts-Participation-Survey-results-2022 Executive-
 Summary.pdf

 4    https://desart.com.au/publication/art-centres-and-covid19-impact-statement/

 5    https://desart.com.au/wp-content/uploads/sites/40/Art-Centres-and-COVIE 19-Updated-July-Dec2020.pdf

 6    https://parlinfo.aph.qov.au/parllnfo/download/librarv/prspub/7262636/upload binary/7262636.pdf

 7            https://visualarts.net.au/sit-for-an-artist/

 8            https://visualarts.net.au/news-opinion/2021/visual-arts-sector-urqently-requires-crisis-fundinq/

 9            https://www.australiacouncil.qov.au/research/makinq-art-work/

 10           https://www.australiacouncil.qov.au/research/makinq-art-work/




na
va
