Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Submission                               15/12/2023

To Whom it May Concern



My name is Nicole Osmak and I am a Registered Nurse and live in the State of Queensland.

At the height of the Australian Government's health response to Covid-19 my employment, from two separate and
vital hospital and community roles, was terminated due to not being vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus.

I have served my community including many rural and remote communities for 14years prior to being terminated
from my role as a Registered Nurse.

I was an experienced and well skilled nurse with no record of misconduct in my years of practise.

I will use heading for some of the terms of reference to this submission. These are only some of the issues I have with
the Australian Government Covid response.

A NURSES' PERSPECTIVE (and I speak for myself only)

I was not comfortable taking an injectable medicine that had not been tested or tried in a safe timeframe, especially
when no long-term tests or side effects had not and could not be carried out due to the rushed way it was approved
for use. Many of the nurses and Doctors I was working with at the time held the same concerns. More than less did
not want to receive this injection but felt they had no choice as they would lose their job, then their house, then
their mental health, their marriage, etc. It was not a choice no matter how anyone tries to sound genuine in saying. It
was an absolute disgrace and my mental health, financial situation, social constructs suffered greatly since being
terminated from my employment as a Registered Nurse.

Our hospital was the quietest it had ever been. We were much busier during the height of the seasonal flu period a
few years before. The media, especially the news channels were depicting chaotic scenes at hospitals that were
simply not true. Why? I believe fear was fed by the Government and Media which then drove people to make
decisions that were irrational. Even with all the fear mongering the Vaccination rates were very low. Australians were
not witnessing within their own communities and social circles many people becoming even mildly sick from Covid-
19 and didn't believe a Vaccination was necessary.

LOW VACCINATION RATE HIGH INCENTIVES LOW SAFETY STANDARDS

The Government's message to keep Australians safe from the virus did not match up with its' manner and protocols
surrounding the Vaccination roll out. Due to the low 'voluntary' choice to receive the Covid-19 Vaccination, incentives
began to emerge. With this, safety measures dropped so low that, as a Registered Nurse having followed the highest
of healthcare standards, I was horrified and confused. Vaccinations given to people outside of a medical centre or
hospital, stored in eskies, when the temperature sensitivities of these vaccinations can cause either dangerous
change to the Vaccination content or make the Vaccination dead/useless, given to children in empty sports stadiums
and many more extremely unsafe practises. This Covid-19 Vaccination rollout was very clearly carried out in an
unsafe, rushed, negligent and coercive manner.




LACK OF PROVISION OF OTHER HEALTH INTERVENTIONS

The Australian Government and Health Authorities pushed the Vaccination with no or very miniscule mention of any
other health interventions. Choice is what we the Australian people deserved, and the truth about and access to
other medicines. It is common knowledge, and to which the Australian Government and other health organisations
readily mention at other times in the year, that nutrition, water, adequate sleep, exercise, mental health, etc are very
helpful and powerful in staying healthy and recovering from illness. I, as a Nurse, mentioned these important health
and lifestyle choices to my patients every single day when caring for them. If the Government cared and wanted to
offer a thorough and 'best results' action why were these items not mentioned or strongly encouraged to do?

There were alternative medicines on the market that had been used for decades, tested and trialled to be safe for a
majority of people. Two of these are; Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin which were not given the same amount of
research, studies and testing as the different Covid-19 vaccines at the time. These drugs had been shown to be
effective at different stages of the Covid-19 illness but as such were not given publicity or promotion.

An excerpt from the National Library of Medicine journal




https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9305273/

I, and many Australians, found it odd that this Covid-19 virus was similar to the flu with its severity and that it was
mostly affecting those who were vulnerable such as the elderly and those with compromised immune systems, but
the health response was much different to the common flu response from health authorities.

SOCIAL EXCLUSION AND MENTAL HEALTH

In the community, social exclusion from restaurants, cafes and most places of socialising were enforced if you were
not Vaccinated. Not only this, but many small businesses were also forced to close due to lockdowns or staff testing
positive. The very social fabrics of our society crumbled overnight. Mental health, the most important health aspect
of our human existence, seemed tossed aside as unimportant to the Australian Government.

RAT TESTS, PCR AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES

RAT tests were encouraged but had a low reliability rate.                     an Immunologist for CSIRO says RAT tests
are not reliable, https://www.canberratimes.com.au/story/7782961/f1u-or-covid-these-experts-say-taking-a-rat-test-
wont-tell-you/

If a staff member was to get a PCR test it would take up to 2 weeks to receive a result, all the while their employer
had to close his/her restaurant due to being forced to quarantine the rest of his vaccinated staff under the Palaszczuk
Government. Often these people had little or no symptoms of Covid-19. An example of this absurd thinking is a
business on the Sunshine Coast, Sum Yung Guys: https://www.afr.com/companies/tourism/noosa-restaurants-
slammed-by-covid-19-rules-20211222-p59jj5

LOCKDOWN DISASTERS

Numerous studies showing how harmful they are to Men, Women and Children - see a few reference links below:

https://www.deakin.edu.au/about-deakin/news-and-media-releases/articles/the-results-are-in-covid-lockdowns-
were-bad-for-our-mental-health

https://www.afr.com/politics/federal/lockdowns-hurt-mental-health-more-than-case-numbers-deaths-20220921-
pSbjtS

Not only that but the lockdowns showed no help to flattening the curve, instead, covid cases continued to rise during
these harsh and inhumane lockdowns.

OUR FREEDOM TO PROTEST AND BE FREE AUSTRALIANS

-   SHOOTING AT AND ARRESTING AUSTRALIANS

Mental Health, including suicide being the negative effects of the lockdowns, Australians had no choice but to
protest - our God given right. The Government was not responding to the blatant imbalance of Risk verse Benefit of
these lockdowns and the negative effects on our Mental Health, Financial situation, Relationshps, etc. These protests
were interfered with by Police who shot at the crowd with rubber bullets, pepper spray and batons. These bullets
should never have been used, instead the Government needed to listen to the Australian people, their cry for help.

-   ANZAC DAY In the year 2020 most States cancelled the celebrations and then in 2021, April 25th all states
    cancelled Anzac Day celebrations whilst Football was allowed to go ahead. Only 11 people in hospital with Covid-
     19 nationwide in April 2021. One of the most respected days by Aussies to give respect and honour to the fallen
    was indicated by the Australian Government as not to be as important as watching a live Football game. What an
    absolute disgrace and embarrassment to the world.

INCONSISTIES WITH HEALTH ORDERS

Restaurants, cafes, gyms, and churches shut, whilst Liquor stores andare deemed 'Covid-19 safe'. Why!? See
Reference below:

https://www.pla.qld.gov.au/health/covid-19

-    MASK MANDATES - Masks had to be worn whilst out in public. 'Mask on' to enter a restaurant, 'mask off' to eat,
    talk and laugh within the restaurant or cafe. Why? 'Mask on' in public and allowed 'off' if holding a coffee mug.
     Mask material can be any material as long as it's a cloth. No proof that it needs to be able to prevent the virus
    from entering through the material fibres is necessary. These ridiculous rules and directions by CHO,
    Government, State or Federal offended the Australian people's intellect and their own. It was not based on
    science, sense or facts and fines were imposed no matter these obvious inconsistencies.

As this submission ends, I am clearly saying that the Australian Government needs to own up to their obvious and
grave mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic across a broad range of areas, to review their actions and reasons for
making them and to make reparations to the Australian people. A formal inquiry needs to be carried out.

The catastrophic effects of the Government's response in the Covid-19 pandemic from 2020-2023 were felt by all and
will be remembered by all as the most harmful, badly orchestrated, confusing, deceitful, and unpatriotic and
nondiplomatic response to a Pandemic in Australia. The health orders showed clear favour to certain groups whilst
harsh to others. The Australian people have been grossly affected physically, mentally, and spiritually. No room was
left for discussion or input from other non-government and independent organisations or the Australian people
themselves.



Yours sincerely,

Nicole Osmak



References:

Koc HC, Xiao J, Liu W, Li Y, Chen G. Long COVID and its Management. Int J Biol Sci. 2022 Jul ll;18(12):4768-4780. doi:
10.7150/ijbs.75056. PMID: 35874958; PMCID: PMC9305273
