Submission to the Australian Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry.



Governance:

The federal government of the early Covid period sidestepped responsibility and lacked national
leadership by insinuating that states and territories were responsible for the Covid response within
their jurisdictions. Mechanisms such as the National Cabinet, where state leaders met with federal
counterparts effectively rubberstamped the response measures of many states and territories,
without shouldering the responsibility. The federal government failed to protect Australian citizens
from discrimination based on medical or health conditions, nor from experimental medical
procedures given without informed consent, under duress or coercion. It should be noted that in a
two-party preferred parliamentary system, the then Opposition provided no opposition to the
policies of the Morrison Government.

Federal advisory bodies, particularly in relation to health, funded from public purse, were required to
check the authenticity of the claim of pandemic, gather evidence and data to support or refute said
pandemic, examine potential treatments, consider risks and benefits and guard Australians from
untested measures. Did they fulfil these tasks with robust investigation or rely on the say-so of
international organisations of vested interest?

Any form of robust discussion and debate, regarding origins of Covidl9, course of illness, treatment,
medical interventions or sequelae were shut down and repressed. Surely governments that were
truly interested in protecting, relieving and remediating the health of Australians, would encourage
intelligent debate on these issues. The Australian governmental response, aided by media
propaganda, was a war response: Be Afraid! The deadly coronavirus is coming. That war response
was not against alien intruders, it was waged against Australia's own citizens.



Key Health Response Measures:

The Covid era was surely not the first "pandemic" of consideration in Australia. Why would prior
Australian pandemic response initiatives be abandoned to follow the methods of response as
dictated by other countries? Covidl9 (the disease) is purported to be caused by SARS CoV2, virus.
Note the "2". What pandemic response was issued for SARS CoV- original version, and when did
Australia experience this? Obviously first- time round there was no pandemic. Our health authorities
would be aware of this.

With regard to a germ theory of disease, where a pathogen X is deemed to cause illness Y for which
there is treatment Z, it is commonly understood that viral infections are often more potent in the
initial phase, then rapidly change to be less potent but much more easily transmitted to other
people. Hence, multiple waves were of no surprise. (I am not suggesting that germ theory is the only
model to consider, but it is the model used to inform the Australian response to Covidl9.) For most
people who contract diseases in this manner, and recover, a natural immunity is present. Why was
the possibility of natural immunity not considered, especially in that SARS CoV- original version had
to have already circulated prior to the second version? Australian health authorities would have
known this.

An Australian university published a study on inexpensive, easily available, effective treatments in
the acute phase of Covidl9, in April 2020, but those effective treatments were outlawed and
withheld from Australians. Why? Australians were told to stay home if they had Covidl9, and go to
hospital when virtually beyond medical help. This policy engendered fear and doom.

Known effective treatments in the acute phase were outlawed in favour of insufficiently tested,
invasive, experimental and irreversible medical procedures. Those "vaccinations" and boosters, have
been shown to neither prevent illness, nor stop transmission. Australian authorities pursued policies
of "vaccination" when Britain was embarking on a third dose (the first two provided no immunity to
disease) and Israel had embarked on the fourth shot! This data would have been known to Australian
authorities. Adverse effects following vaccination are continuing to be exposed and the excess death
rate in Australia has soared, not during the pandemic period, but in the after-shock. Why? What risk­
benefit analysis was done regarding the effort and expense of keeping a single person out of hospital
versus the ongoing sequelae of adverse effects of vaccination? Why were children and indeed
multiple age groups required to be vaccinated when data clearly showed that Covid was particularly
detrimental to the elderly or people with comorbidities, but not usually lethal for the average,
healthy person?

Public health messaging instilled fear and compliance. Public health messaging repeatedly followed
the government narrative that shut down informed debate and issued one remedy for all. Public
health messaging claimed no treatments available, just get vaccinated. Public health messaging
chanted "safe and effective". Public health messaging provided no alternative, sensible health
supports commonly available e.g. vitamins, exercise, sunshine. Public health messaging provided
confusing insights into the remarkable and changing capabilities of Covidl9: close contact being
fifteen minutes, close contact being two to four hours, one mask being sufficient, masks no longer
being required from a certain date, changing quarantine periods, changing periods for negative test
results; the list goes on. Public health messaging created division and a two-tiered society; unless
one has a passport, they cannot enter this venue, this educational institute, this club.



Broader health supports for people impacted by Covid and/or lockdowns:

Governmental policy on Covid contributed to (if not caused), the tremendous impact of Covidl9
itself (see above regarding the withholding of treatment and denial of alternatives) and government
response measures contributed to (if not caused) mental health crises, business loss, family
breakdown and loss of access to treatments for other medical conditions while Covid was the only
health issue of concern. Governmental policies denied family support for births, weddings, last days
and funerals. Governmental policies contributed to school closures, church closures etc.

What supports? Apologise!

Use the millions of dollars targeted for patented drug production to support those affected by Covid,
lockdowns, and vaccine adverse effects.

In future:

Honour informed consent and bodily autonomy; provide access to effective treatments in the early
phase; encourage the use of cost effective, non-patented health supports (e.g. supplements, healthy
diet); encourage social interaction and family gatherings; encourage exercise and getting out into the
fresh air; encourage discussion and debate. Let people be people, not statistics.
Support for Industry:

While much of governmental response to Covidl9 could be seen as a health response, the inquiry
cannot ignore the huge impact on employment and economics.

 My focus here is the inordinate pressure on employee cohorts to undertake "vaccination", not as a
health measure itself, but as a condition of employment. Professionals across many fields of
endeavour lost livelihoods. In many instances, staff shortages were exacerbated by policies of "no
jab, no job". Experienced and skilled people who were deemed perfectly capable of working during
the early unknown stages of Covid when we were "all in this together", were stood down, had
employment terminated, or resigned for taking personal responsibility for their own health. In
addition, a multitude of professionals were required to actively promote governmental policy
regarding Covidl9, or face sanctions. Does my medical practitioner outline the possible remedies for
an ailment, (from which I might choose), or does a government official determine the appropriate
treatment? Our federal government failed to protect workers from discrimination based on health or
medical status. In so doing, many skilled and experienced professionals have been excluded from
work, and industries placed at risk due to staff shortages.



Global Experience:

Consider the data from multiple countries. Consider the rampant health crisis in western countries as
opposed to many African countries with regard to Covidl9 and vaccination.

Consider the response by Sweden.

Consider that some countries are no longer advocating the usage of certain vaccine products or
technologies.

Consider governmental over-reach in twentieth century Europe. Have we learned nothing from
history?



                                           Lest We forget.
