The Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




My name is Margaret Fairley I have a Bachelor of Applied Science and have worked in the
pharmaceutical industry for over 10 years.

I am pleased to see that our government is transparent and willing to hold this very important
enquiry.

The government response to the pandemic was an overreach and a tyrant approach that I never
thought would ever take place in Australia. Our country is made up of many immigrants like me who
left their homeland because of such governance.

    1. Ordinary Australians lost their livelihood because of vaccine mandates. My niece was
       traumatised by her employer for many months before she was sacked. Our federal
       government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation.

   2. The government overreach in response to the pandemic was unprecedented, we are no
      longer able to think for ourselves, question anything and our freedom was taken away.
      I kept thinking of our national anthem “for we are one and free”. What happened to
      our country that so many people lost their lives to grant it its freedom. Our own
      government arrested its citizens for going out to buy a meal or not wearing a mask.

The government health response measures of unwarranted use of fear, lockdowns, border closures
mandating of masks and vaccination was an overreach by the government to control the livelihood
of ordinary Australians who elected them and trusted them.

    1. Our government granted indemnity to pharmaceutical companies which enabled them
       to market new drugs (covid-19 vaccines) regardless of any side effects or risks. How'
       can our elected government be so careless as to risk the lives of the people who
       elected them.

   2. The mandates served one purpose and that is to divide us and make us hate each
      other. I left a restaurant in tears because a friend was terrified that I was unvaccinated
      and thus put her and her newborn grandchild at risk. Married friends got divorced
      because the vaccinated partner no longer w'anted a relationship with an unvaccinated
      person.

    3. The federal government and opposition agreed to spend billions of the taxpayer’s
       monies on a vaccine that never stopped the transmission of the virus, and we now
       know it is neither safe nor effective. Mv neighbour
We must move forward and learn from this pandemic.

   1. I thought we are the clever country; clever countries think for themselves and are
      educated to question things. We must allow all scientists and health professional to
      express their views and not label anyone with a different view to the authority’s
      narrative as misinformation. After all that is what science is to do challenge the status
      quo.

   2. We must cleanup the corruption in TGA. Our TGA is 96% funded by the
      pharmaceutical industry they meant to regulate as per recent article in the British
      medical journal. https://www.bmi.com/companY/newsroom/investigation-are-drug-
      regulators-sufficiently-independent-from-the-companies-they-are-meant-to-
      regulate/
        This government body must go back to being an independent regulatory. We must remove
        the funding they receive from the pharmaceutical industry; it is an absolute disgrace that a
        rich country like us cannot afford to have an independent regulatory body to ensure the
        safety and efficacy of therapeutics.

   3. We must stay united as nation no matter what disasters/pandemics come our way. The
      federal government and those in opposition failed in uniting our nation in the face of
      this pandemic.

   4.      We must not agree to the WHO treaty amendment on handling future pandemics.
        The WHO response to the pandemic is an absolute disgrace, a bunch of bureaucrats who
        cannot be held accountable for any of their actions. The WHO cannot be trusted to make
        objective decisions on health matters when they are run by the pharmaceutical industry
        who have a vested interest. We must as a nation be able to think for ourselves. We have
        brilliant scientists and ethical doctors who have the knowledge and the expertise to handle
        pandemics. For example, Professor Robert Clancy senior Clinical Immunologist holder of
        the Order of Australia been should have been on the panel of health professional
        responsible for our pandemic response.

        In conclusion, while the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the
        above-mentioned areas are not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should
        encompass all aspects of the government's response, including those currently outside the
        Inquiry's scope.




Kind Regards,
