    #WESNET
        y * The Women’s Services Network



              Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response
                               Inquiry

            Who we are
            WESNET is Australia’s national peak body for specialist women's domestic and family
            violence services, with almost 350 eligible members across Australia. WESNET represents a
            range of organisations and individuals including women’s refuges, shelters, safe houses,
            and information/referral services.

            Submission
            It is well understood that women are disproportionately impacted by disasters (including
            pandemics) and that violence against women worsens after a disaster (see, for example
            Thurston et al (2021)). While there are likely a number of contributory factors to the
            increased violence, including grief, job loss, social isolation and drug and alcohol misuse, it
            is clear that already existing inequalities are exacerbated. It is also apparent that it is not just
            the event itself that aggravates inequality, but also the way in which services are designed
            and supported to respond to those most affected. Historically, emergency funds are largely
            allocated towards physical infrastructure, and ‘shovel-ready’ projects, with a comparably
            poor investment in care and health services and social infrastructure.

            In Australia, effects of the pandemic saw services supporting victim-survivors of
            gender-based violence overwhelmed by demand. While additional government support was
            welcome, the allocation and subsequent impacts of additional emergency funds varied
            across jurisdictions. Channelling of monies through states via state-federal partnership
            agreements, with differences between state and territory service and funding models, inhibits
            services’ ability to achieve a good service standard for all clients. The standard of service
            may vary considerably depending on where one lives.

            WESNET makes the following key points.

            • A gender lens must be applied across the spectrum of pandemic prevention, risk
              reduction, response and recovery efforts. Particular regard must be paid to the funding
              and support of services that provide assistance to those most in need, including women
              and children escaping violence. Increased funding to domestic and family violence
              services would be a valuable preparedness measure.

            • A national approach is needed to ensure equitable access to services, regardless of state
              boundaries.




Australia’s peak women’s organisation working to eliminate domestic and family violence                          WESNET Inc
                                                                                                        Freecall: 1800WESNET

                                                                                                       Web: www.wesnet.org.au
                                                                                                         ABN: 16 068 548 631
• Women and children escaping violence, particularly in the wake of a mass health event,
  may be traumatised in multiple and complex ways. A foundation principal of specialist
  domestic and family violence services is that they are expert in trauma-informed practice.
  These services are embedded within their communities and are well placed to understand
  and identify the support needs of women living in that area - particularly with respect to
  specific cultural and demographic characteristics.

• Women need to be provided with the opportunity to take leadership. Too often following a
  disaster and throughout its duration, women provide increased unpaid community support
  work, caring for the sick and vulnerable, while men lead physical response management
  roles. This has repercussions in terms of what elements of response and recovery
  become prioritised, as well as on women’s individual and collective economic and other
  wellbeing (see, for example, Alston (2017)). This is consistent with the guiding principles
  of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction which calls for the greater
  promotion of women in leadership, at both the community and national levels.



Signed




                        Karen Bentley (she/her)
                        Chief Executive Officer WESNET T: 1800 937638
                        web: www.wesnet.orq.au | www.techsafetv.orq.au


 WESNET                                                   ©
WESNET acknowledges and pays respects to the Traditional Owners and Custodians of all the lands on which we live and work.
