1. Introduce yourself, and explain a little about why your voice is important

Examples:
I am an education worker who worked in a public school as a teacher.
I have three adult children, a vulnerablehusband and an elderly mother in the
retirement village near us.. She lives alone and relies on us.
I am also a small business owner.

2. What are your suggestions and feedback about the role of the Federal Government,
National Cabinet, the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) and/or
other advisory bodies?


FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
My feedback regarding the role played by the Federal government was that initially in the
pandemic they were a little slow ( understandably ) but worked to keep the population safe while
waiting for vaccines. At that stage we were world class with a response ( akin to our AIDS
response) that if emulated globally could have ended the pandemic.
Currently however, vaccines are late, very few are eligible, communication is appalling and the “
everyone protect themselves “ is inequitable as not all have equal resources.
It is ludicrous to use a let it rip/ vaccine only policy when they are not available to ALL who want
them. It is personal responsibility while being denied access to resources.
The same is true for anti virals which are only available for some and ironically not those in
health care, education etc where risk is substantial.
It is as if the government has given up trying or not bothering and failing to plan, not using the
benefit of our geographical location. As JN (whatever no. now) causes difficulties overseas, our
vulnerable wait for vaccinations that will not be immediately effective. Some kids are still not
entitled to any vaccine.
They are also failing to consider the consequences of long covid and impact on work forces and
services, despite an inquiry led by Dr Ryan. Conclusions from this seem to have been buried,
leaving many suffering and devastated regarding their future propects of living a functional life.
This is cruel and heartless behaviour on the part of the government.

NATIONAL CABINET AND COMMUNICATION

National Cabinet and the concept of this is a disgrace, in as much as it is used for the
pandemic, as it offers no transparency, and is secretive and undermines trust. Hopefully we
soon have an enquiry like the UK that looks honestly and openly at decisions made, to better
prepare for future events.
Instead of the government communicating a uniform message to Australians, it has been
fragmented and in some instances ridiculous. You have over 100 staff sick with Covid in
Townsville hospital and their medical officer saying masks are “not proportionate” while the more
sensible Melbourne officer is recommending masks in light of the increase in wastewater of the
Jn strand in Victoria and the knowledge that it is causing increases in illness in young people,
and increases in their hospitalisations/ intubations overseas.

ATAGI
ATAGI too is slow and vaccines for under 5 not available despite being available in other
countries.

CHIIEF MEDICAL OFFICER
Advice given to government from Australia’s Chief Medical Officer was also limited with no
feeling of the country working together. Currently he minimises a disease that can cause serious
health issues and denies the population access to information, such as the airborne nature of
the virus and the research that emerges daily about long term health consequences of repeated
infection.

SUGGESTIONS GOING FORWARD

Government needs to be honest, offer a clear path of recommendations and mandate clean air
in business and indoor settings.
They need to work for the benefit of the population with recognition that business is one part of
this. They need to equally consider children who should not be used as transmission vectors at
the cost of their health, the work force who need health to function.
They need to adopt strategy that helps in all difficult situations, namely plan for the worst and
hope for the best. At the minute has been ongoing hope that it will disappear if we do nothing.

3. What are your suggestions and feedback about key health response measures, e.g.
COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective
equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging?

Examples:
In my personal experience, COVID-19 vaccinations and/or treatments have been slow,
inequitable and limited in distribution.
Regarding PRE, in the future the federal government needs to acknowledge the most effective
PPE and make it available to health workers.
The Federal Health department could improve Public Health messaging by being honest, not
supporting vested interests,

4. What are your suggestions and feedback about international policies with regard to
securing vaccine supply deals?
Examples:
The Morrison government’s approach to vaccine procurement impacted me by being slow but
was accessible when arrived.
The Albanese government’s vaccine procurement policy has been appalling and hypocritical
and limited in availability. Messaging is very confusing on eligibility


5. What are your suggestions and feedback about financial support for individuals?

Examples:
In my personal experience, the government’s policies regarding financial support during the
pandemic have been worsened the pandemic as ill people go to work as they need wages.
The impact of the removal of isolation income support was a ludicrous decision , not in the best
interests of the population.




9. What are your suggestions and feedback for “improving Australia’s preparedness for
(current and) future pandemics”?
We must have Clean Air in schools, and every precaution. Children have been used as
sacrifices for the economy and this is a disgraceful indictment of our values.
Personally I left teaching in apublic school as I could not bare to watch the damage those
choices would cause.
Have still had to be part of the damage that will soon have impacted every family as we
continue the let ot rip policy with no public health messaging. We have had anjyear old family
member in ICU with^^^^^^ ^^^^^|and                                  courtesy of a lazy government
that could not clean air through hepa, enforce open windows and maintain messaging so
teachers realised the danger of Covid and ways to mitigate.

Masks in healthcare are a must and somehos the gov has let this become political. Everyone in
healthcare should mask as vulnerable people are there, including now workers whose health
has been compromised.

Acess to antivirals should be a right of all members of the population if the government chooses
to do nothing and timely updated vaccines too should be available to all when wanted with
scientific recommendation ( not ATAGI), they have no credibility left.
Also deliberate misinformation should be a criminal offence. Gaslighting the population has led
to death, disability
I have read papers and posts by Professor Brendan Crabb, the John Snow Project, OzSAGE
and kept screenshots not links. I have read information by US CDC who are only know
acknowledging the danger of Covid and long term impact on the economy but again no links.

Examples:
Australia would be better prepared for current and future pandemics if the government had
scientists rather than business members as advisors for National Cabinet.
There is a gap in Australia’s response in every sense and there is an opportunity to rectify that
with determination, focus, preparation and NOT deciding the population are too frail for the truth
and transparency.
Things that worked well for my family were paid pandemic leave to stop the spread.
