Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
About Me
I graduated from my Mortuary Science studies in 2008 in Sydney Australia this qualification was
sought if one wanted to work as a Post-mortem Technician.
My hands-on lectures I warmed too are the best in their field. Names I have changed for privacy
reasons. ^^|with his gentle care of infants and the unborn humbled me to private tears. The
introduction to tools of the trade and infection control. ^^^|who comforted and gave me council
after being ill from a decomposed body I viewed a few days earlier. ^Mto whom who I sought to
see everything up close example the decomposed body, I wanted to see the jaw come out. While
other students stood back, me I was in there over the deceased transfixed to what I was seeing. I
had no idea I would react that way days later. I was in the process of being made aware of my
limitation. Each post-mortem technician has their limitations. Like for some technicians do not do
post-mortems on children.
I in ore of their passion to see it through to the end. The studies ranged from council building
requirements to hold a funeral home/mortuary, implement disaster procedure, anthropomorphic
examinations, partial hospital and full coronal autopsies. Motor vehicle accidents, suicides, Acts of
Law and Regulations e.g. Human Tissue Act, Coroners Act. Accidents, infection control and the
yes sexually bizarre.
I became fascinated on the out poor of grief from around the world for one man (Michael Jackson)
I visited his music and I felt I had missed out on the hype this man generated. After I read up on
the sociology of death, I found myself going out on a limb to say our identity and culture as
humans was based on our war dead and not on the living and the good, they have done. The grief
was there but no one could claim it.
Another example, the death of Princess Diana was the same the grief struck at the heart of many
people around the world. The first single out cry of grief from one member of the public as Diana
coffin left the gates of Kensington Place chocked one instantly to tears. That moment in time
underpins how we should morn our dead.
This ‘Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry’ is where we have
come to, ignoring our Australian Acts, rules, regulations denied the justice by due process for
Australian’s dead the sick and the dying. I referencing here our signatory with the World Health
Organisation where this Covid-19 pandemic was declared.
I was waiting for a call to help with the dead but no, no insight to the logistics to deal with mass
dead, my industry was silent! Pathologists unbelievably acquiesced rolled over and stayed silent.
My opinion from my studies the day the pandemic was called I knew in my discipline it was all
fake. Something was not right.
My points
The role of Chief Medical Officer for the Australian Government was not even registered to
treat people.
Here we have Professor                ‘was’ the Chief Medical Officer for the Australian Government
and was the principal medical adviser to the Minister for Health and the Department of Health. He
also held direct responsibility for Health’s Office of Health Protection and Response Division.
See Attachment for evidence.
Here is where my discipline interacts with a medical professional that refuses to comply with the
Coroners Act involves prosecution. My accreditation requires the police pathologist/coroner to be
there at the scene if the doctor refuses or doses not know the cause of death. This mechanism is
there to protect the rights of the living and the deceased and not to point blame, that’s for the
coroner to decide and the courts at a later date. The Chief Medical Officer for the Australian
Government in my opinion needs to explain his thinking.
In my opinion the position that Professor^^^^^l held enabled the complete breakdown of our
Coronal system and Infectious control protocols by enabling the World Health Organisation to
dictate how we categorise and treated our dead, the living, the sick and the dying.
Australia’s health literacy was abused (health literacy is an actual study).
The Chief Medical Officer for the Australian Government let it go ahead.
   1) To import a treatment drug solution disguised as a vaccine is illegal reference: National
      Health Act 1953. It is written so.




My opinion is the vaccine for Covid-19 being Pfizer and Moderna is actually gene therapy Pfizer
have said it themselves. I come to the conclusion that the definition of these said vaccines were
illegally worded to pass our Health Act 1953.
Yet Pfizer had been caught with the Largest Health Care Fraud Settlement in Its History
https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-largest-health-care-fraud-settlement-
its-history
Simple evidence: ^^^^^^^^^^fbelieves our government would not trick us like that. I think
millions thought like^^^^^^.
Same with herd immunity that was changes to fit the narrative of lookdowns.
REQUEST
   1) An autopsy investigation to all the listed deceased and future deceased persons with or
      without Covid-19 and the same with the vaccinated from Covi-19 vaccines. As I am
      member of the public, I can reguest this. I reguest this under the Coroners ACT NSW 2009.
      All states.
   2)      Australia has to sign out of the World Health Organisation.
   3)     I implore you to make it mandatory and restore the roll of the States Coroners’
   4)     These deceased persons have to be classified as reportable to the Coroner.
   5)     Coroner/s’ of Australia have jurisdiction of documentation of all medical treatment records.


REASON FOR REQUEST
1) I reject Covid-19 is of a natural cause. Deaths from Covid-19 should be reportable to the
Coroner/s’ as they are of an unnatural cause of death which falls within the statutory definition of a
reportable death.
https://www.leqislation.nsw.qov.au/view/html/inforce/current/act-2009-041
https://www.coroners.nsw.qov.au/coroners-court/the-coronial-process/what-to-expect-during-the-
coronial-process.html#The1
2) It is unconscionable how the Australian Bureau of Statistics can direct how Doctors’ should fill
out these Death Certificates.
https://www.abs.qov.aU/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/1205.0.55.001
3) Once deaths were classified with these new codes the deceased loses their right of justice
through due process. Eg a patient in hospital, nursing home, home care or via their General
Practitioner that has died due to errors in treatment could easily be undiscovered.
4) Foreign intervention to manipulate information for their personal mandates that impact our
sovereignty and rule of law.
5) Alternative treatments have not been introduced or mentioned in medicines which could have
may have saved lives. Eg Ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine.

LOCKDOWNS AND PARAPHERNALIA
It’s known by professionals that these masks mandates do not work.
PCR test do not work either yet we were told the lie that they can do the job.
Re Kary Banks Mullis. Winner of the Nobel Peace prize for inventing the PCR test. It’s known it
can’t test for Covid-19.
The whole PCR tests were a lie.
Brad Hazard’s signing of the 20th December 2020 Public Health (Covid-19 self-isolation) order
(No5)2020 needs to be revoked screwed up and thrown away.

CONCLUSION
We have to have a Royal Commission into this whole debacle of the Covid-19 years.
Yet this can start discussions and critical thinking for this madness never to happen again.
Vaccine contracts have to be made public and cancelled. The licence to do gene therapy in this
country has to removed till further notice.
Also help in submissions should be made available for like myself they are not the best easiest to
do. I am finding this impossible to write my thoughts for it goes into trauma. As this affected/s
everyone. Referencing is hard for some searches now have 404 code or just not there. The search
engine Google has been compromised while doing research.
We need a memorial to the dead and suffering as like a war memorial.
Sovereignty has to be restored.
End
