                          4        AUSTRALIA+NEW ZEALAND

    Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry

        Submission on Behalf of Students For Liberty Australia/NZ
                               Students For Liberty Australia/NZ
Students For Liberty is a global non-profit organisation that seeks to develop student leaders
and empower them to spread the ideas of liberty and freedom. My name is Max Payne, and I
am the staffer based in Australia, managing Australian programs. Students For Liberty were
shocked with the levels of government overreach and the trampling of human rights that
occurred throughout the pandemic in Australia, and our submission reflects on these measures
and makes recommendations to improve processes for future emergencies and pandemics.
                                           Introduction
The Commonwealth Government’s response to the Covid 19 pandemic from March 2020 over
the following two years or so has inflicted considerable social, economic and health damage to
a generation of young people. While the virus was perhaps a more potent threat to older or
more vulnerable Australians, this inquiry should seek to understand the vast gap between the
benefit and cost to many young Australians who have borne the consequences of Government
overreach during this period.

From a government perspective, the handling of the pandemic was marked by panic, inflexibility
on the part of bureaucrats and the abandonment of reason and common sense. Having thrown
out all prior planning and pandemic preparations, Australia embarked on a great experiment in
policy that resulted in vast suppression of human rights with seemingly no cost benefit analysis.
The legacy is a scarred generation with fewer economic opportunities, vast government debt,
poorer health outcomes including mental health, and unnecessary gaps in both educational and
social development.

The fundamental error throughout the pandemic at all levels of government was to essentially
boil all government policy down to two metrics: covid infections and covid fatalities (not to
mention the failures in accurately recording and reporting even these metrics!)
Border Closures and Quarantine
   -   Slamming international borders shut threw families into disarray, and trampled over the
       rights of citizens to free movement, as did banning citizens from leaving the country.
       Important family milestones and events were missed, couples were isolated from each
       other for months, and the tourism industry languished for 2 years.
   -   Initially requiring returning or departing citizens to be ‘fully vaccinated’ had little impact
       on transmission or infection but resulted in an unnecessary divide in society. This came
       to a head during the comical handling of protocols during the 2022 Australian Open
       tennis.
   -   Quarantine arrangements at hotels proved to be unfit for purpose, particularly in Victoria
       where contracted security guards without infection control training became a point of
       vulnerability. Use of hotels also made mandatory quarantine an expensive exercise for
       returning Australians once financial support was removed, home quarantine measures
       (in some cases employed for high profile visitors) should be explored for future
       pandemics.
   -   Purpose-built quarantine facilities were built too slowly to become useful, the acute stage
       of the pandemic had already passed and the vaccine rollout was near complete when
       they opened.
   -   It is a source of national shame that Australians had difficulty returning home and leaving
       the country for 2 years, it is an example of the bureaucratic inflexibility that marked
       governance during the pandemic.
Debt and Economic Management
   -   Apart from the many other direct and indirect harms caused by lockdowns and other
       emergency pandemic measures, the economic harm is disproportionately felt by young
       Australians.
   -   As of this year, treasury forecasts interest on national debt to be the fastest growing
       budget item, this will continue to be a chronic issue for successive federal governments
       and will draw taxpayer funds away from more productive spending or critical support
       measures.
   -   The sheer scale of spending, the subsequent period of low interest rates and the
       resultant inflation over 2022/23 proved to financially benefit older Australians with more
       wealth and exposure to assets such as residential housing. Young Australians are now
       disproportionally struggling with rent payments, increases to utility bills and inflation
       across industries related to supply side shortages and input costs. Over their working
       lives they will see a greater share of their taxes devoted to paying off covid debt and the
       interest due on it.
   -   Programs such as JobSeeker (which increased unemployment benefits by 100%),
       JobKeeper and a raft of other direct payments continued for much longer than necessary
       and the effects on the labour market and productivity are still being felt.
   -   Industry support such as HomeBuilder proved to have a disruptive and distorting effect
       on demand, we now have a shortage of labour and building materials which has caused
       huge numbers of insolvencies throughout the construction sector.
Vaccine Mandates, Health Messaging, Transparency
   -   While not administered by the Federal Government, vaccine mandates across industries
       at a state/territory level became commonplace in Australia from late 2021. These
       mandates were only possible to implement due to the access the federal government
       gave to the states of the Immunisation Registry. These mandates were extremely
       harmful to social cohesion, undermined confidence/trust in government and had terrible
       social and economic consequences forthose who chose not to have a covid vaccine.
   -   The Federal Government’s advisory bodies such as ATAGI played a key role in
       communicating to Australians about vaccines and other health measures/directives
       throughout the pandemic.
  -   Information about vaccines provided by federal departments did not outline risks
      associated with vaccines clearly, they were also responsible for reducing patient choice
      in regards to other treatments for covid 19.
  -   AstraZeneca - the Federal Government’s preferred vaccine throughout the middle of
      2021 has now been discontinued and is subject to a class action patient lawsuit,
      highlighting the folly of the Federal Government’s messaging around vaccines during the
      pandemic.
  -   The Federal Government adopted fearful language throughout the pandemic, and the
      Home Affairs department actively engaged in the suppression of critical voices. Many
      government directives and pieces of information turned out to be false despite the
      confidence and sureness it was first conveyed with, this approach to messaging was
      highly damaging to trust in government and authority.
  -   Further to this, the secrecy under which National Cabinet operated and the difficulty
      former Senator Rex Patrick had in publishing the minutes of those meetings is endemic
      of the opacity displayed by the Federal Government during the pandemic.
Recommendations
  1. Consider alternatives to hotel quarantine including home quarantine to allow for more
     flexibility and greater numbers of Australians to return home during a pandemic.
  2. Adopt a policy of flexibility in quarantine/border arrangements and case-by-case analysis
     to allow for more positive outcomes and common sense to prevail despite broad
     restrictions. The focus on blunt compliance caused unnecessary harm when the risk was
     not always potent.
  3. Economic cost-benefit analysis and impact on human rights must always be considered
     when implementing broad health-based measures, even in an emergency.
  4. Continued direct payments and industry support that is not means-tested should be
     avoided due to likely economic impacts later down the line
  5. Industry support and economic policy that ignites demand must be considered against
     inflationary pressures that it will create.
  6. Patient data and the privacy of doctor/patient relationships should not be interfered with
     by the Federal government in future pandemics
  7. More careful consideration of overall language and directives from a health perspective
     to avoid fear and panic, and increase choice for patients and consumers to restore trust
     in authorities and health professionals during a health emergency.
  8. Establish a culture of transparency within government that highlights the need for clear,
     consistent and open communication with Australians during emergencies.
  9. Establish a Royal Commission into the national pandemic response that also
     investigates the role of state/territory governments, who were responsible for causing
     some of the most egregious harms by Government during the pandemic.



                                                                                Max Payne
                                                             Australian Programs Associate
                                                              Students For Liberty Australia
