COVID-19 Response Inquiry

In particular I wish to comment about this part of the terms of reference:

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,
responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance
mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

The initial response of our governments seemed to be reasonable in view of
the uncertainties of what became known as the pandemic.

After several months however I felt that governments were promoting fear and
panic within the community broadly when they should have been targeting
responses and treatment for vulnerable groups.

It became clear that many groups in our society were not at risk from COVID-
19 infection to any greater extent that, say, influenza, but our Chief Health
Officers were consistently ramping up the fear and panic.

There are several actions by Government that have caused me and my family
to have an almost total distrust of state and federal government, and our state
health service.

1. The banning of the prescribing of some medications such as Ivermectin.
The restriction on ivermectin was introduced in September 2021 because of concerns about the safety of consumers using
ivermectin without health advice to treat COVID-19, widespread use of ivermectin instead of approved vaccines and treatments
for COVID-19, and potential shortages of the medicine for approved uses.
In its final decision published today, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has removed the restriction through its
scheduling in the Poisons Standard because there is sufficient evidence that the safety risks to individuals and public health is
low when prescribed by a general practitioner in the current health climate.
The final decision follows an application to remove the restrictions and has been made according to the process required under
the Therapeutic Goods Act 1989. It takes into account advice from the independent Advisory Committee on Medicines
Scheduling (ACMS) and two rounds of public consultation.

2. Doctors were punished for not following the COVID-19 propaganda.
3. Mandatory vaccination for many workers in order for them to continue to
   work. This policy was abhorrent.
4. The unbelievable brutal behaviour of the state police when interacting with
   people on the streets.
5. The concentration of our police on punishing people who may have
   breached health orders in a minor way, rather than continuing to respond
   to normal law and order issues.
6. Mandatory masking. This caused huge problems for children who were
   never at increased risk anyway.
7. Blocking of our state borders and preventing people from attending to sick
   and dying family members. Such abhorrent policy.

The summary of the repercussions of the actions of authorities worldwide
provided by people of integrity such as
reveal that, in my view, the governments of Australia, state and federal, chose
to continue with mandatory vaccinations, lockdowns and masking in spite of
the evidence. They therefore acted without integrity. They therefore have
contributed to a high level of distrust within the community.

Their behaviour has been abhorrent.

The Great Barrington Declaration pointed out that the response to COVID-19
should be targeted to the most vulnerable groups, not to the entire community
where risk of harm from the virus was and remains very low.

The sorry state of our treasury with huge government debt also remains as a
constant reminder of the folly of government’s response to COVID-19.
