1 | Page


{ DATE \@ "dddd, d MMMM yyyy" }



Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry




Mostly the governmental responses to the alleged pandemic were criminal

        Eg:
    •         banning ivermectin, banning hydroxychloroquine
    •   Hiding adverse events to the alleged vaccines data-we demand the true statistics be released
        and published in the public domain widely so as to not repeat the many malfeasances, both
        of public office holders, and by the vast majority of the medical community

Putting sick patients into nursing homes which on any measure is going to spread disease and kill the
nursing home residents, is more criminal malfeasance

See below for an eg of the results:


RTV Utrecht in the Netherlands reported yesterday that 22 residents have died
within the span of 1 week at St Elisab'     . irsing and Guest House in Amersfoort,
following injections on Janu       th of one of tt    • MA experimental CC
“vaccines.”




'.mGe?        k- L1.   ■' .mj            , _y " ',Source I

This tragic story follows what is nc        miliar patt     <    ders of Health Impact
News. Mass vaccination of the elderly in long-tf          re resident homes is followed
closely with everyone being infected with C(              )wed by massive death'
deaths <        n blarr          »VID, instead of the injections.

V       3 report out of the Netherlands, it is also revealed that these residents
suffered from dementia and had other underlyir           ditions, so it is difficult to blame
COVID for causing the deaths.
2 | Page


Precisely because there is underlying suffering, it is not possible to determine with
certainty in every case whether the death is a direct result of the virus. “These elderly
people died with corona, but not necessarily because of corona.” (Source )

Did these seniors with dementia consent to be injected with an experimental shot?
We know that in Germany and Spain, seniors with dementia are being vaccinated
against their will. See:

Whistleblower Video Footage of Forced CO VID Vaccines in
German Nursing Homes Goes Public - Attorney: “We’re
Dealing with Homicide, Maybe Even Murder”

Courts in Spain Order Forced COVID-19 Vaccination of
Incapacitated Nursing Home Residents
This a stated goal of the eugenicists. Elimination of the weak, feeble, and elderly, for
the purposes of population control.

The Globalist medical tyrants are committing murder and euthanasia as the world
sits back and watches, choosing instead to believe the lie that a deadly virus is
causing all of this. A virus that thousands of doctors around the world have claimed
is not dangerous and 100% treatable with existing, older drugs, as well as natural
remedies like Vitamin C, Vitamin D, Zinc, Virgin Coconut Oil, and others.

Also, giving even provisional approval to these experimental 'gene therapy injections', with so much
data missing and health concerns unanswered, the government was negligent to allow this human
experimentation with our treasured elderly folks-see excerpt below

Provisional approvals have been issued because there is insufficient data available on the
safety and efficacy of these Vaccines to support full TGA approval (as is the case around
the world where Emergency Use Authorisations, or similar, have been issued). At this stage
the vaccine developers have two years to complete the comprehensive evaluations on the
safety and efficacy of their vaccines. Pfizer has a further 11 studies to complete ( GA Pfizer
Assessment Repoi ) and AstraZeneca has a further 14 studies ongoing and planned ( "GA
AstraZeneca Assessment Report) in order to address the outstanding safety concerns
which are broken down into the below categories by the TGA:
• Important identified risks 1. Anaphylaxis (Pfizer)

• Important potential risks: 2. Nervous system disorders, including immune-mediated
neurological conditions (AstraZeneca)
3. Vaccine-associated enhanced disease (VAED), including vaccine associated enhanced
respiratory disease (VAERD) (both Vaccines)
4. Anaphylaxis (AstraZeneca)

• Missing information 5. Use during pregnancy and while breastfeeding (both Vaccines)
6. Use in immunocompromised patients (both Vaccines)
7. Use in frail patients with co-morbidities (for example, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), diabetes, chronic neurological disease, cardiovascular disorders) (both
Vaccines)
3 | Page


8. Use in patients with autoimmune or inflammatory disorders (both Vaccines)
9. Interaction with other vaccines (both Vaccines)
10. Long-term safety (both Vaccines)
11. Use in elderly (> 65 years of age) (AstraZeneca)


Of particular concern for the elderly and frail is the “Missing Information” on the safety of the
vaccines related to frail and elderly patients, including but not limited to points 6, 7 and 11.
Also of note is the “Important Potential Risk” of vaccine-associated enhanced disease
(VAED) (point 3) which has not been excluded as a potential side effect of these Vaccines
(due to the lack of data available to date). VAED is also referred to as antibody dependent
enhanced immunity (ADEI). This phenomenon is explained by the UK Medica Freedom
Alliance in their letter date 23 Nov 2020:
Previous attempts to develop coronavirus and other vaccines e.g., RSV and dengue, have been
hampered by the problem of 'antibody dependent enhanced immunity' (ADEI), which has led to
severe illness and deaths in the animals and human subjects involved in the trials28. This phenomenon
only becomes apparent after vaccination, when the subject is exposed to wild virus at some point in
the future. Worryingly, the Covid Vaccine trials have not been conducted in a way to exclude the
possibility of this serious segualae occurring months or years after vaccination.



    •   Breaches of the Commonwealth Constitution were quite common by the government and its
        agents, eg: civil conscription to get injected by governmental 'mandate'-YOU DON'T HAVE
        THE PRIVILEGE OF MANDATING THINGS< WE DO III!

Other examples:

    •       Restricting free travel between states,
    •       depriving people of oxygen (the pathetic 'mask mandates')

Allowing unauthorised police and other quasi officials to run rogue on the public as if they were
authorised health officers when-especially early in the alleged pandemic phase -THEY WERE NOT.

    •   Treating the World Health Organisation as if it was some sort of credible health authority
        when CLEARLY IT IS NOT. More like a prostitute for a corrupt and inept drug cartel.
    •       AND the World Economic Forum-Medicine is to be about HEALTH, NOT business III!
        : the commonwealth government of Australia (Norfolk Island) has fostered these private
        entities and treated them as if they had public good as their raison de'tre: IT IS NOT
    •   Accepting a redefinition of PANDEMIC from this corrupt organisation-THIS POINT ALONE
        MAKES MULTIPLE GOVERNMENT PARTIES CRIMINALLY COMPLICIT

Supporting, encouraging and taking money from eugenicists such as Kill -Bill Gates, who is a known
people harmer-anyone with health credentials of any credibility knows of the incredible human toll
of his 'vaccine' misadventures in India and Africa, at a minimum.



What's this then???-see below
4 | Page




      WHEN YOU REALLY TAKE THE PISS AND
        REGISTER IT AS A LEGAL ENTITY
                 Search v       Tools & resources v   Help v




                  Australian Government
                 Australian Busirarss Ri-^tstrr   ABN Lookup
   ABN Lookup > Search > Current derails for ABN 86 972 858 649



   Current details for ABN 86 972 858 649
    Current details            Historical details



       ABN details

  Entity name:                                                  The Trustee for Covid Trust

 ABN status:                                                    Active from 22 Apr 2020

 Entity type:                                                   Discretionary Investment Trust

 Goods & Services Tax (GST):                                    Win luiiLiidj i l^ijitiUtnor GST

Main business location:                                         VIC 3003




                                                               I'll just leave this here...
5 | Page


    •   --And whilst we are on the topic of money-who mandated YOU to hand five billion dollars to
        the corrupt Microsoft company, already spying into everyone's computers, who is getting
        booted out of credible nations for this sort of behaviour, and who is complicit with the
        criminal SCRUBBING of relevant information required for inquiries such as this in personal
        computers, MR ALBANESE?????

Eg: The recent HACK and destruction of Dr Steve Kirsch's data-server in New Zealand

https://www.facebook.com/100077481401966/videos/1971534386580034

I request the Commonwealth Government covid 19 response inquiry have a look at the short video
above in full, not only to verify the criminal censorship Microsoft and all its many sub-agent
companies are carrying out-with YOUR GOVERNMENT'S FIVE BILLION DOLLAR ASSISTANCE, but to
also highlight-as enunciated by the aforementioned doctor, but also to illustrate quite clearly by the
New Zealand example, how much of critical information of HARM spread by the promulgation of
alleged vaccines (harm-agents) has been suppressed, and to which this inquiry should be properly
addressing REFORM IN THE INTEREST OF THE PEOPLE!

So we are to become accustomed to the 'commonwealth government'-a rubbery entity at best -
REWARDING CRIMINAL ENTERPRISES WITH TAXPAYER FUNDS ????

Or are you simply handing back some of the largesse handed to your predecessor Mr Albanese who
had to meet the corrupt Gates person in our neighbouring New Zealand to take the covid-19 funds as
he didn't have the STONES to do this exchange on Australian 'territory', although I am confident
Norfolk Island (sic) could have pulled this off!!!

So of course, our demand is to tear the recent and indecent Microsoft Cloud contract/arrangement
or whatever you may define it as-all FIVE BILLION Dollars of it, up! DO NOT HONOUR IT, refute it, it
was not voted for by the people it affects! Not only is this unlawful it is immoral.



YOU ALSO KNOW THE HARMFUL HISTORY of many of the pharmaceutical allegedly companies tasked
to create a 'vaccine' for the common cold-or what we know as the family of cold and influenza
symptoms-coronaviruses.

ALL THEIR TESTING TRIAL RESULTS SHOULD BE PUBLISHED FULLY IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN-the harms,
the deaths, the adverse reactions, the dead animals tested upon, and so on. Also the bankruptcies
and old and new trading names.

Tolerance of extreme misbehaviour by the states and territories you have exclusive jurisdiction of
was criminally malfeasant by a federated national 'government'.

The mixed messages this sent to the populace was intolerable and this is NOT A CALL FOR STIFLING
OVERREACH BY A SINGLE ENTITY. It is a complaint about the multitudinous 'lawyer's picnics'

the parlous 'state of governance' allowed.

Eg: How do you have 'health commander' and 'Chief Health Officers' WITHOUT MEDICAL
QUALIFICATIONS ?? And where do these bogus titles even come from?

    •   Silencing real doctors and researchers when they contradicted the phoney dollars driven
        'vaccinate at all cost' agenda, and threats via medical boards and so on SHOULD NOT BE
        REPEATED as many of these doctors, microbiologists and researchers are now vindicated
6 I


          Eg: Remdesivir is mostly fatal to people with respiratory illness, and MIDAZOLAM is definitely
          a killer -you allowed EUTHANASIA on the elderly with these products
          Also: INTUBATION is the more likely saving of life measure for severely ill respiratory
          patients, whereas BEING ATTACHED TO RESPIRATORS IS LIKELY FATAL!!


      •   Allowing lots of inflows of cruise ships and people from China when both were known as
          purveyed as the likely source of INFECTIVE AGENTS (of man-made biological weapons) all
          through the alleged pandemic's time period is criminally malfeasant


          On so many levels so many governmental agencies and agents failed the people of Australia,
          yet appeased remote and unaccountable parties such as the World Health Organisation-
          which the Commonwealth Government-a nebulous entity at best-should thoroughly
          decouple from, and should also decouple from Microsoft and Bill Gates or any of his
          foundations, the unaccountable Federal Reserve Bank-revive the genuine treasury of this
          nation, because a bankrupt 'government' will resort to such desperate measures as to kill
          and collect from it's citizenry's rightful estates and we DEMAND a return to lawful
          parliament, lawful treasury administration, return of assets to the people and overturning of
          citizen (Roman) status, after all, THE BANKRUPCY ENDED SOME DECADES AGO!
          By adopting the above suggestions, and the spirit of them, a proper and lawful RESPECT FOR
          LIFE will be instituted which we state emphatically YOU ARE MANDATED TO HAVE.
