To Whom it May Concern:

From the beginning of the so called pandemic in 2020, I was sceptical about the fear campaign rolled
out by the Mainstream Media. There were many unknowns, decisiveness, and lack of understanding
by the health authorities of how to deal with the issue. So, I did some research to see if what we
were being told was genuine and to determine what I should do to keep myself and my family safe.
A few of the early things that I easily discovered alleviated any fears around what we were being told
by the Government, the experts, and the media.

From the very outset in January 2020, people worldwide were led to believe and accept the
existence of a rapidly progressing and dangerous epidemic.

I was never afraid of covid, but I was of the Government overreach and the effect on the public of
the mainstream media fearmongering. Right off the mark I knew that it was a scam. When I studied
the statistics the initial medical models and statistics all had dramatically overrated the dangers of
the so called "virus".

I did around two hours of research and knew instantly that something wasn't right. I do have a
science degree, but I am no doctor. Hiding the clinical trial data as well as the ingredients in the
experimental jabs was a huge red flag for me. So too was the fact that there was a high survival rate
(approx. 99.6%), for healthy individuals like me. This combined with a reduced excess mortality at
the beginning of the pandemic and no dead people on the street, plus the fact that the fraudulent
PCR test (not designed to be a diagnostic tool for any disease) clearly showed that there wasn't a
pandemic at all and it would have been better for the public if the Government had done nothing
except monitor the situation. Freedom of Information responses also showed that people working in
hundreds of 'governments' and health/science institutions in over 3 dozen countries have uniformly
failed to provide or cite even 1 record that describes purification of the alleged "SARS-COV-2" or any
alleged "variant" from a sample of bodily fluid, tissue or excrement taken from a sick patient, by
anyone, anywhere on earth...."

But no, we were told to simply trust the science that the only solution was a vaccine which we were
forced into taking. A vaccine, mind you, that went through the same rigorous FDA clinical trials in
only nine (9) months that took previous vaccines more than 10 years of clinical evaluation. I believe
most adults are intelligent enough to know that this was a lie and that both the near-term (within 2
years) and long-term side effects of a highly advanced biological agent cannot be known in 9 months
of human testing, as we are unfortunately learning as a society today.

Australians were initially told that the new mRNA vaccines were 95% effective, but then later told
that the injections are not effective at preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection or transmission. This 95%
claim that the inoculations were safe and showed 95% efficacy 7 days after the 2nd dose. But that
95% was a 95% Relative Risk Reduction. Absolute Risk Reduction was only 0.84% which is the true
figure for evaluating the risk reduction. If the 'vaccines' don't prevent infection or transmission,
what are they 95% effective at? (other than causing disease). The trial data also showed that the
vaccines also caused harm. So, with a relative risk reduction of 0.84% for a disease that isn't that
harmful, there is no benefit if it comes at the cost of increased sickness and death. Well why then
did the Government, who knew that the vaccines caused more harm than good, continue with the
vaccination campaign and the absurd mandates and lockdown measures?

We are now aware that the COVID-19 injections are NOT safe and effective vaccines and that the
claims regarding the integrity and validity of the FDA clinical trials were blatant lies.
If a vaccine can't reduce the risk for a viral infection, how can it reduce the risk for the severe
disease that is caused by that viral infection? The answer is it can't.

Media disinformation and the fear campaign were instrumental in sustaining the COVID-19
narrative. Scientific lies and falsehoods have been used to sustain the legitimacy of the COVID-19
policy mandates including lockdowns, the imposition of the face mask, social distancing and the
suppression of fundamental human rights. People worldwide were led to believe that Big Pharma's
COVID-19 vaccine injections were the "solution".

The entire vaccine programme is based on fear, nonsense, and concocted fairy tales.

However, in Australia, the TGA and ATAGI and other government officials, and some healthcare
professionals are still promoting the false claim that the COVID-19 biological injections prevent
hospitalizations and severe disease.

Governments, media, big pharma, doctors, nurses, health minister, businesses, and judges who
advocated, pushed and forced people to have this injection need to be held accountable. All of these
people knew that they were doing the wrong thing, and that the perpetual safe and effective slogan
was complete^J

The official narrative put forth by governments and health organizations has been that deaths in
2020 increased due to the outbreak of the alleged Covid-19 pandemic, with the response to it
adversely affecting millions of people worldwide.

However, as the pandemic progressed and a vaccine was developed and distributed, the narrative
shifted to focus on the safety and effectiveness of the Covid-19 injection as a means to curb the
spread of the virus and reduce the number of deaths.

This narrative was reinforced through various propaganda campaigns, public statements, and official
statements, with the message that the vaccine was "safe and effective" and would be "the key to
ending the pandemic".

However, the figures and official reports released by governments in the USA, Canada, Australia,
New Zealand, the UK and most of Europe have shown that the opposite has happened, with millions
of excess deaths being recorded since the mass roll-out of the Covid-19 injections. I closely
monitored the NSW hospital data which showed week in and week out more hospitalizations and
death in the vaccinated opposed to the unvaccinated. I also monitored the TGA safety reports. Both
of these government sourced data highlighted the fact that the vaccines were not safe or effective.
This raises the question of why were they not and still haven't been pulled from the market?

This has led to many questions about the safety of the vaccine, the facts of the official narrative, and
the integrity of Governments and Public Health bodies around the world.

Government reports from multiple countries have highlighted a significant rise in excess deaths,
surpassing what would be expected under normal circumstances. Excess deaths should have fallen
following the roll-out of the Covid-19 injections if we were really in the midst of a pandemic that was
killing hundreds of thousands of people.

This is all very common-sense stuff that if a layperson like me can work it out, how cannot the
Government with all their expert advisors and access to information only privy to them?

"All "Covid-19" tests, diagnoses, statistics, projections, models, analysis, injections, restrictions,
requirements, "measures," "counter-measures" and interferences of every kind are invalid and
ultimately based on delusion, misconception, misinterpretation, ignorance, incompetence,
incomplete information and/or intentional fraud...

It is very clear to me that virologists practice pseudoscience, and that people acting as so called
"scientists," "public health officials," politicians and mainstream news reporters have misled people
and caused insurmountable harm across the world...."

I was suspended from my job as a school teacher, which there was a shortage of, because I could not
give informed consent. In considering the requirements for legally valid informed consent - which
can only be given voluntarily and in the absence of undue pressure, coercion, or manipulation - it
becomes clear that anyone 'mandated' is unable to give informed consent. Why? Because mandates
and informed consent are mutually exclusive. If someone is being told they have to have a jab to
keep their job then informed consent is not possible, regardless of whether they are willing to
receive it for those reasons.

Many understood this, and the seriousness of the new 'no jab, no pay' territory we were entering.
Tragically, thousands, of people, including me, walked from jobs and careers that spanned decades,
in what might be the biggest government-enforced-mass-exodus of a skilled working population.
Even more tragically, hundreds of thousands, perhaps more, were coerced into having the jab to
keep their job. And let's not talk about those who were injured or worse.

This, in a so-called 'free' country.

Informed consent was not just 'impossible' for the mandated. I have serious doubts about whether
anyone in Australia gave informed consent to the Covid injections. Australians were subject to
politicians and medical technocrats who told us how miserable our lives were going to be if we
didn't get vaccinated. The disgust was tangible, and the message was clear. Somehow Australian
authorities subjected us to the 'largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever' despite
treaties, agreements, and codes of conduct that are supposed to protect against such things. I
believe the '95 per cent' Covid 'vaccination' rate was achieved through undue pressure, coercion,
and manipulation of the Australian population.

Were you told you wouldn't be able to attend weddings, funerals, birthdays, social events, schools,
or community services if you didn't get vaccinated? Undue pressure.

Were you told that you would be unable to work, return home, travel, visit sick relatives, enter a
hospital, or obtain medical care if you didn't get vaccinated? Coercion.

Were you told it was your duty, your social contract, and a way to 'love your neighbour' by getting
vaccinated? Manipulation.

'The vast majority of people taking vaccines did it under duress. They had to try to keep their job or
maintain their position ... and my heart is broken that so many people have taken the vaccine, and
so many have been harmed.'

This same pattern of pressure, coercion, and manipulation was seen around the world.

One of the most important questions that is going to emerge from this issue is going to be one of
accountability and liability for all the people who have been greatly injured or been left bereft,
because of the Covid vaccine. Because they gave their consent for an injection that they couldn't
give consent to. There has to be some form of accountability, based on the fact that no one could
give informed consent.'
This issue of informed consent is about so much more than bodily autonomy. It is inextricably linked
to medical freedom... and more.

'Your medical freedom is inextricably linked to your social freedom and your economic freedom.

When that medical freedom is broken, and you begin to do things to your body for other reasons,
outside of medicinal reasons, it infringes upon these other circles of freedom, and this can cascade
down. We have to bring ourselves out of this.'

So, based on fraud and the fact that no one could give informed consent or had anything to fear,
Government overreach has negatively impacted my life in the following ways:

    •       Conflict and loss of relationships with family, friends, and colleagues.
    •       Friends, family, and others being affected with vaccine injuries and death.
    •   Unnecessarily being suspended from work as a teacher and losing a half years pay, resulting
        in severe financial hardship and the stress accompanying this. I still have not recovered
        financially. Being coerced into having a jab, to keep your job, is not informed consent. It's
        the antithesis of informed consent.
    •   Challenges and increased stresses at work when implementing curriculum during school
        closures.
    •       Being physically assaulted twice for not wearing a mask in public.
    •   Fear for myself and my family over being forced vaccinated. I took my     out of school for
        six months because I was afraid that the school would force him to get the jab.
    •   Loss of trust in Government and health authorities and becoming fearful of these
        institutions.
    •       Forced to return early from a holiday due to lockdowns and fear of a fine.
    •      Loss of fundamental human rights, such as being able to visit               interstate after my
        ^Hhad
    •       Parents forced to get the jab, so they could travel home after visiting me.

All of this harm for nothing. And people have lost a lot more than me. This is a catastrophe!

Please can you ensure nothing like this ever happens again in this country, the people responsible
are held accountable, and the victims receive compensation.

Please have some integrity, some righteousness, some courage, some heart to do something to
make this country great again.



Regards,
