Covid Enquiry December 2023 - Response

   1. Invalidity of the Enquiry - the members of the enquiry should resign and call for
      a fully established Royal Commission into the entire period of the pandemic up to
      and including the current time. This is the only valid response to what amounts to
      an intentional cover-up by the Federal Government of this country, considering
      the immense and ongoing damage done to public health, people’s economic lives
      and wellbeing, the nature of our democracy and the suspension of legal rights
      during the emergency phase and the further attempts to constrain the return of
      human rights in order to continue a process of governance that is perhaps best
      described as criminal malfeasance by large sections of the bureaucracy and of
      many elected parliamentarians.
   2. The Gross Distortion of Medical Practice - it is clear from evidence now
      available in the public sphere (despite ongoing attempts by governments, mass
      media, bureaucracies and significant members of transnational and national
      corporations to suppress, that proper and long established (going back to
      Hippocrates) universally accepted medical ethics and practices (“Do no harm”)
      have been usurped and perverted to advance the interests of some elected and
      non-elected officials including those in WHO and various Australian bodies
      through their links to ‘Big Pharma’. The corruption evident through many
      practices invoked by so-called leaders including lockdowns, masking, social
      distancing and ‘vaccination’ including mandates have little, if any basis in
      medical evidence and were designed to exacerbate fear and hence compliance in
      the population to political ends that make a mockery of medical care and proper
      practice. Evidence including the falsification of testing through the PCR standards
      that were applied that further charged the atmosphere of panic and which were
      known through statements made by                                      prior to the
      ‘outbreak’ lead to wildly exaggerated claims which caused a “casedemic’ and not
      a pandemic. The suppression of frontline doctors working in life threatening
      situations to find appropriate treatments and off-label drug prescriptions prior to
      the ‘vaccine’ release and the subsequent lies used to pull many of those drugs out
      of prescription (ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, etc - though many like
      budesonide continued in use) despite their demonstrated efficacy. The outrageous
      suppression to life threatening levels of people in their homes such as the
      infamous Victorian twin towers lockdown which was eventually settled out of
      court to avoid further embarrassment for the exiting premier Andrews. The
      disastrous lockdown of schools despite it being known from quite early on that
      children and young people were at little risk and the disgraceful scare campaign
      which suggested they may infect and kill their grandparents for example, should
      they be exempted from ‘vaccines’ etc. There are too many examples to list here
      but the record is full of them. Worst of all was the failure of the so-called vaccines
      and the damage they have done and continue to do (excess deaths, etc) and the
      complete denial by authorities of any exposure of the appalling truth about these
      toxins. Witness for example, the revelations from the US Michigan court which
      ordered release of Pfizer documents over the oast two vears which^^^^^^^^H
                           Yet Pfizer and authorities went on to recommend
   ‘vaccination’ for pregnant women! Consider the recent revelationsfrom^^^^M
                a highly rated specialist in genetic microbiology
                                                                  His work has been
   corroborated by other experts around the world including^^^^^^^^^^^| and
   yet authorities in this country continue to back both Pfizer and Moderna
   (including investing $ lOOmillion into the production of more mRNA ‘vaccines’ in
   this country).
3. Malfeasance in government - apart from examples already provided the complete
   disregard for human life (whilst pretending to be so concerned for ‘safety’) the
   governments of this country exhibit, they continue to ignore confounding
   evidence of massive scale coming from not just doctors and medical researchers
   (many of whom have world class careers and, prior to this fiasco, outstanding
   records of practice and achievement - now trashed behind the scenes by
   bureaucracies and such) but also many within their own ranks who whistle-blew.
   The likes of AHPRA, TGA, ATAGI and others, replicated in corporately captured
   institutions globally (don’t forget that TGA is around^^^^^^H by ‘Big
   Pharma”) continue to push their lies as one by one the individuals fade from view
   (to avoid the inevitable prosecutions?)—has gone from the US FDA/NIAIDS
   etc,(with their cheersquads
   intact), and the list goes on: “nothing left in the tank”. But now in New Zealand,
   one honest man (an unknown database administrator) has revealed the truth for
   the first time in history.           gave warning to his superiors including
   those in the new government (post Ardern) that he had witnessed a safety signal
   in their vaccination data. When they refused to make it public (breaking an
   election promise) and to address it and instead cut him off, he released it globally
   and it is now sending shockwaves around the world. To reiterate, this is primary
   source data showing massive rates of death from vaccination - way beyond
   anything seen in history and something which respected researchers have been
   calling for, for years (such as associate editor of the                       The
   response of the NZ authorities - blame the whistleblower, send armed police to
   his home, arrest him and accuse him of criminal activity! He gave warning and
   his warning was based on his simple assessment that the data belongs to the
   people and when there are such serious warnings in it - it must be made public.
   The response of government (and it is the response of governments across many
   countries) it seems, is deny and cover up.
4. And this is exactly what you Enquirers are doing, covering up for the current and
   the previous governments which have failed and continue to fail their people by
   not investigating transparently, honestly all the real evidence and seeking to make
   amends including charging, trying and punishing those who have perpetrated
   these crimes against humanity. Latest research including this from NZ suggest at
   least 10 million and anything up to 20 milllion deaths worldwide from the
   ‘vaccines’. The criminality of Big Pharma and their agents in the health
   bureaucracies must be investigated. The evidence is now too great.
5. The TRUTH WILL OUT. You Enquirers need to do the right thing and resign,
   calling for a full Royal Commission - that is the only thing that will save those
   who have done wrong but who realize their wrongdoing and seek to make
   amends. Do you have a conscience or will you remain within your elite clique,
   living a life of pretence and personal advantage?


   Thank you for your consideration....
