Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

To The Review Panel


                                                                              13 Dec 23

With less than 2 days to the close of submissions to this inquiry, I learn that it even exists. It is clear
that either the government or this panel does not wish to make the inquiry well known in Australia. I
subscribe to a number of Australian organisations attentioning health issues in Australia and only
today learn it exists from one, the Health Alliance Australia. That the panel in charge hasn't even
ensured that such health organisations are aware let-alone invited submissions is very disappointing.

In view of the lack of time to make a more-detailed submission I relate some of the major problems
that were clearly evident with the Commonwealth governments COVID-19 response. I can
substantiate these points yet the Commonwealth departments and spokespersons usually had no
substantiation for imposing the directives and actions on the Australian public during the COVID
saga. I find this ironic, that for this submission you require evidence yet the government had little to
no evidence to substantiate its actions and refused to listen to anyone that went against its narrative
(deregistering doctors who were in the front line) or using a childish approach of name calling such
as "antivaxer".

Problems with Commonwealth government actions:

    1)   The excessive response to a virus that produced a severe flu was out of proportion to the
         health problems created. This was made worse by government departments such as AHPRA
         restricting medical practitioners from treating on a case by case basis. Everyone is not the
         same in their health status yet this was ignored.
    2) The use of PCR testing which was never intended to be used in diagnosis due to its
         shortcomings, exaggerated the infection rates. The PCR test does not define infection in an
         individual
    3) Similar to the above, the PCR and RAT tests were not definitively calibrated to the virus at
         hand undergoing progressive mutation. So were invalid.
    4) The restrictions imposed on the medical practitioners on acceptable treatment protocols
         made the suffering worse in the affected people. The lack of recognition of administration of
         high dose vitamin C, D, zinc, hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, qercitin, etc added to the
         plummeting health condition of such sufferers. There are hundreds of published papers on
         these subjects both before and after the COVID saga
    5)       The unsubstantiated actions of AHPRA on medical practitioners:
             a.   Dictating treatments
             b.   Not respecting doctor patient privacy
             c.   The deregistration of good and caring doctors without logical scientific reasons
    6) The government signing confidential contracts with the large pharmaceutical companies and
         not making such contracts public. The government is supposed to work for the public in a
         democracy!
    7) The TGA accepted the pharmaceutical company fraudulent testing data on the vaccines. A
         review of such data by experienced scientists should have highlighted the extreme risks
         involved in proceeding with such vaccines. Furthermore the public cannot get adequate
         responses from that ivory tower department. The publishment of the fraudulent data in the
         US has clearly shown the inadequate and mis-represented data from the pharmaceutical
        companies. These companies are frequently fined for falsifying data, hiding data, etc so why
        did the government and its departments not use precaution rather than sign straight up and
        approve such untested vaccines?
    8) There were no quality checks carried out on the vaccine vials. The Government had no idea
        of what they purchased. They did not check the consistency of the formulation between the
        test vials and the purchased vials. Furthermore there was no testing between batches for
        consistencies. The contents, if checked, should have also raised alarms in respect to possible
        side effects which were detrimental to human health.
    9) The government departments, especially the TGA, then did not undertake any close
        monitoring of the numerous health effects and increased death rates. These were eventually
        visible in the ABS data and state data, but still to this day there has not been any concern or
        corrective actions exhibited by these departments or AHPRA: this is criminal.
    10) Despite not closely monitoring the horrific health effects from the vaccines the TGA went-on
        to approve for children and pregnant mothers. The children were hardly affected by the virus
        and there was no substantiation to apply the vaccine to them. The rates of miscarriages, etc
        on pregnant mothers also was ignored.



There are many other problems exhibited by the Commonwealth government actions. The main one,
as mentioned before is that the government actions were most-part unsubstantiated and
scientifically flawed and certainly lacked clear evidence.



Dr Don Want
