11th December 2023

To whom it may concern,

I am writing in regards to the Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry terms of
reference.

My name is               ред graduated as a     ^^^^^Hat the end c        and began^^^H in
         I worked in the public health system until and left there in a^^^^^^^^^^fand
then started working in the private sector as a                                  in |
    |ln Nov 2021 I had my employment terminated because of the mandate to be vaccinated with
a Covid 19 vaccine with which I did not consent too. I am H
and a|

During my ^^^Bcareer it has been of the utmost importance to provide an environment for
informed consent, involving a holistic approach with empathy and care while maintaining the
individual's right to choose without coercion, bias or force.

Covid-19 was a surprising eventuation for the world and Australia. Something the world hadn't seen
and the rate in which it travelled was something that caused great fear.

In regards to the Governance terms of reference and key health responses, I believe that the
measures taken during the Covid-19 response were extreme and crossed the barrier of informed
consent of giving sufficient information about the risks and benefits and informed consent being
given without coercion or force. In the immunisation handbook
https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/contents/vaccination-procedures/preparing-for-
vaccination#valid-consent under valid consent it clearly states these as requirements of informed
consent. How the Commonwealth Government, state and territory governments and national
governance mechanisms bought in mandatory vaccination for people to retain jobs in regards to this
is mind blowing. The immunisation book is very clear about consent and in this setting vaccines were
given to many people under great duress and pressure at the prospect of losing their job and
livelihood. Informed consent in the setting of a trial vaccine is difficult to provide sufficient
information about the risks and benefits as these are still being discovered through the clinical trials.
Trial vaccines are usually given in controlled settings to specific groups and for significant periods of
time before they move onto the next phases. These steps were all boycotted in the vaccine rollout
across Australia. The TGA gave vaccines only provisional approval
(https://www.tga.gov.au/news/news/covid-19-vaccine-provisional-determinations ) as only the
preliminary clinical data was available. Yes the TGA planned to continue monitoring but given only
provisional approval of vaccines, so that the pharmaceutical companies could complete clinical trials
and provide clinical data. All people providing vaccines were given immunity from prosecution- if all
benefits ad risks were known why was such a measure implemented? But to then make such
vaccines mandatory goes against the requirements of informed consent as risks and benefits were
still unknown.

Covid-19 was also seen as a virus that acted like the flu in that it had different variants and strains -
meaning that one vaccine wasn't going to be effective for long as Covid-19 was changing. To then
make the initial vaccine mandatory seems counter intuitive as it wasn't going to be effective against
the strains and variants we were facing. It's like common sense and everything that we have known
was thrown out to force people to have a vaccine.
Governance and key health responses of making vaccines mandatory took away an individual's right
to choose, to be informed, to say no and to feel safe and without pressure or undue stress.

Mask mandates also fall into the Governance and key health responses as at the beginning it was
stated they are only for health care professionals and not needed in the community. Then they
became mandatory for all. What papers or advice suddenly changed? It is well known that medical
masks don't stop the transmission of viruses. The particles of the virus are too small to be stopped
by the mask. The correct donning and doffing of masks is very specific to prevent transmission too.
Governments mandating mask wearing by all community members beggars belief when you
understand the donning and doffing techniques required
(https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2020/10/coronavirus-covid-19-putting-
on-and-taking-off-personal-protective-equipment-posters.pdf). Community members continually
touched their faces and masks making it more likely for cross contamination, masks weren't
disposed of they were kept and used multiple times, again increasing cross contamination. To tell
people this was a way to protect yourself was such a lie.

In regards to financial support for individuals, at the beginning of the pandemic, people were to stay
home if not essential.^^^^^^^^was in this category. Due to the payments provided by the
government        ended up with more money than if she had to work during this time. I continued to
work during this time and it was in an extremely stressful environment. No compensation was made
                                                                                        In no way am
saying that payments shouldn't have been made but the system in how it was issued seemed
incredibly flawed.

I understand many things were occurring and changing rapidly but measures undertaken for mask
and vaccine mandates crossed known mechanisms of truth, put people in more danger from cross
contamination and caused much stress, anxiety and pressure at the loss of income or the choice to
do something against ones will not knowing the full benefits and risks. Government needs to
seriously examine their strategies before we face another similar situation.

I truly hope that from this inquiry an in depth Royal Commission takes place into the Covid-19
response and the over reach of the government and that the mistakes of the past few years are
never made again.

Kind regards,
