15th December 2023




To whom it may concern

There are many things throughout the last 3 years during the COVID-19 pandemic period that have
not been addressed or thought through properly.




    •        Loss of job(s) due to mandatory vaccination requirements.            lost two jobs due to
        not being able to prove vaccination status. The process of trying to survive without work
        and no employer taking on anyone unvaccinated was horrific. Let's not mention the process
        of trying to get jobseeker payments to survive only to get knocked back time and time again!


    •   Mask mandates - although the public health order specified a mask was not mandatory in
        public schools, the Education department chose to mandate masks without supplying
        evidence as to how they came to that conclusion nor were they held accountable for this
        non-scientific based decision. This resulted in our^Hbeing suspended from school which
        caused unnecessary mental and physical stress!


    •   Even though vaccines were not tested enough (especially) for transmissibility
        admitted this in a court of law), those unvaccinated within society and the workplace were
        treated like lepers, there is NO justification to be treated like that. Three years down the
        track I'm still unable to work in my original workplace due not being fully vaccinated against
        COVID-19. We are living with COVID-19 so why does vaccination status still impact where
        you can and can't work? Why is the government not insisting that all workplaces remove
        these mandates? Government's inaction on lifting all mandates in workplace is still
        impacting people both mentally and financially.

There are many instances where the handling of the COVD-19 pandemic was floored. It has affected
many families significantly and unfortunately we continue to feel the repercussions of these bad
decisions.

THERE MUST BE A INDEPENDANT INQUIRY INTO COVID-19 RESPONSE WITHIN AUSTRALIA AND ALL
OVER THE WORLD.

Yours sincerely,

Andigone Aguilar
Andigone AGUILAR

From:                         Andigone Aguilar
Sent:                         Friday, 15 December 2023 9:18 AM
To:
Subject:




FYI




From
To
Cc : "Andigone




Please do not close this case as the main points of our complaints have not been adequately
addressed.

You reported under "The Department's responses" section that^H was moved to separate
spaces within the school due to his refusal to wear a mask (in line with the department’s mask
mandate then in force). This action was taken in order to adhere to the Public Health Order.

Our point being that the school was NOT adhering to the Public Health Order at the time which
clearly stated that students in schools were exempt from wearing masks as stated in Clause
2.17 of the NSW Public Health Order then in force.

You reported under "The outcome of your complaint" section that the actions taken by the
school were short-term and do not appear unreasonable in the circumstances.

My wife and I disagree with this finding because the school has a duty of care to out^^Bwhich
they clearly failed to adhere to by not allowing him to come out for recess or lunch when all the
other kids were able to have lunch and recess without having to wear any masks. Students
were only required to wear masks when they were in the corridors or attending class.

Another case in point is that our complaint involves Mr      actions which should
automatically remove him from having any involvement in responding on behalf of the school
or the department. Mr^^^^Hvould obviously deny all wrongdoing and therefore this requires
another independent party to respond on behalf of the department.

Finally, at no time did your findings, the department's response or the school's response
address our main request for the scientific and/or medical facts that the Department of
Education used to go above and beyond the Public Health Order and enforce a mask mandate
on their students. We provided our medical and scientific facts to the school and the
department on the evidence of why masks were harmful to children. What we are asking the
department with the help of the ombudsman is for the department to provide evidence of the
scientific and/or medical facts that the department used to base their decisions on to enforce a
mask mandate.

                                                     i
Please provide us with the information on how to appeal your decision/findings as we feel our
complaints have not been adequately addressed.

Yours sincerely,

             Andioone Aouilar
Parents of




 — On Tue, 28 Jun 2022 10:11:32 +1000 ■
                                 wrote *


                                      For Official Use Only

 Reference: C/2021/16504




: Dear Mr




 Your complaint abou                                   and the NSW Department of
 Education



 I am wnhn^^ynfonT^o^oHhe outcome to your complaint, received on 9 November 2021
 about                                    and the Department of Education (the
 department) regarding yoursoi|^^H decision not to wear a mask at school. You raised
 concerns that:




       the school was about to suspend
       the school had restrictec^^Hto certain areas in the school because he was not wearing
        a mask
       one of the teaching staff had referred to^^Has 'dangerous'
     • the department's 'mask mandate' did not take into account an exemption in the NSW
         Health Order in force at that time.




 You also sent us your complaint correspondence with Mr              Director Educational
 Leadership, dated 29 October and 3 November 2021.




 Your complaint was allocated to me in January 2022 and I contacted you for further
 infomTafror^Or^^anuary 2022, you advised that^^Jwould be starting year Hat
                        31 January 2022. You stated you had provided a statutory declaration
 dtecnD^n^cnooHo allow^^|not to wear a mask at school, however you still wishe^^)
 pursue the complaint. On 17 February 2022 you provided a copy of a letter from Mr^^^^J
 dated 1 February 2022 advising your appeal against the school's decision to suspend^^Jwas
 not upheld by the department.
                                                   2
: I contacte^he department on 14 April and 1 June 2022 to find out what had occurred
; followingBBBBsuspension. I also asked the department to respond to the allegations of
 being ostracised within the school.




 The department's responses



  The deoartment advised that for a period of 10 school days, from 26 October to 8 November
- 2021,^^1 was moved to separate spaces within the school due to his refusal to wear a mask
j (in line with the department's mask mandate then in force). This action was taken in order to
; adhere to the Public Health Order and the department's guidelines in order to keep students
i and staff safe. ^^Beft school with parental permission on 5 of these days.




i The school suspended       from 9-12 November 2021 following his refusal to wear a mask
i during the previous 10 days. The principal and deputy principals of the school made daily
| contact with your family during this period to explain the department's obligations for wearing
J of masks. The principal met with you and Mr           spoke with you on the phone. Mr
j wrote to you on 3 November 202^^qarding exemptions for mask wearing for high school
; students. On 16 November 2021,^^Breturned to school with a statutory declaration which
j meant he was no longer required to wear a mask at school. He was not separated from other
i students after this date.




 The outcome of your complaint



 I acknowledge that you and         have strong views on the mask mandate that the department
 had in place during this time. I note you were concerned about the limitations you felt this
 placed on^^^Hability to exercise his free will and to make his own decisions. However, the
 department has a continuing duty to consider the welfare and safety of the broader school
 community, at                            other schools. The actions taken by the school were
 short-term and do not appear unreasonable in the circumstances. I also note the school and
 department were in regular contact with you during this time, with a view to resolving the
 matter. After a period of 10 days,^^Hwas able to return to school with a statutory
 declaration.




 I am also satisfied that the department has appropriately responded to the issues raised in
 your complaint.




 For these reasons I will take no further action on this matter and will now close your file. If you
 have any questions regarding this matter, please contact me as per the details below.




 Kind regards


                                                     3
                            (she/her)

Investigation Officer | Complaints St Resolution Branch | NSW Ombudsman

P
W www.ombo.nsw.qov.au

Follow us on Twitter | Linkedin | Facebook

The NSW Ombudsman's office acknowledges the traditional owners and custodians across the
lands on which we live and work, and we pay our respects to their elders past and present and to
the next generation of leaders.

    Ombudsman


■         New South wales



& Please consider the environment before printing this correspondence.




                                         For Official Use Only




ATTENTION: The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential. The
information may be legally privileged. The information is intended for the recipient identified in
the e-mail only. If you are not an intended recipient of this e-mail, please contact the
Ombudsman immediately that you received this e-mail, either by return e-mail or by telephone
on                  You should not review, print, re-send, distribute, store or take any action in
reliance on information in this e-mail or any attachments. You should also destroy all copies of
this e-mail and any attachments.




                                                       4
Andigone^AGUI^R

From:                         Andigone Aguilar
Sent:                         Friday, 15 December 2023 9:16 AM
To:                           Andigone AGUILAR
Subject:




FYI




                    Forwarded message
Fromj^^^^H
To :
Cc : "Andigone
Date : Sat. 30 .




Hei Io

Can you please let us know the process to appeal your findings? We do not agree with them.
Below are our responses in RED.




—- On Wed, 27 Jul 2022 09:43:59 +1000
                                 wrote --­

                                      For Official Use Only

 Reference: E/2022/2221




■ Dear Mr




i Your email dated 7 July 2022 in response to the closure of your complaint about the
j Department of Education to our office



j Thank you for your email.




 In response to the concerns you have raised:



                                                    i
   •   Our office does not make legal determinations about the interpretation of legislation, in
       this case the Public Health Order. I sought the views of our leqa^ounsel who advised
       that they shared the view of the department in this matter.         We are not after
       any legal interpretations. We are wanting the evidence that the Department of
       Education used to justify their mask mandates. We had presented our
       evidence. We are after the department's evidence. They need to be
       transparent so that in the future if we need to dispute it then we have
       documented evidence regarding their mask mandates. This is important
       because we have strong evidence that the Department of Education failed in
       their Duty of Care during their response to COVID.)



   •       I understand that you found the separation of^Hfrom his schoolfriends unreasonable.
       It is necessary for us to take into consideration both your view and that of the school,
       as well as the relevant policies and procedures of the department. In our view the
       action taken by the school was not objectively unreasonable, ancHhe fact that it
       occurred for only a few days was a factor in that assessment.
       awar^of any limit to the Department of Education or
       ^^^^^|Duty of Care. Whether the "torture" or "intimidation" occurs for one
       minute, or one hour, or one day, it still has an impact on a child's mental
       health. We disagree that because it only lasted for a few days that this
       treatment of our^H is in any way acceptable.)



   •       Director Educational Leadership for
       responded to your correspondence of 29 October 2021 and again on 1 February 2022 in
       line with the department'^policies. Our office did not come across any information
       which suggested that Mr^^^Hshould have removed himself due to any conflict of
        interests in the matter. You had the opportunity to raise your concerns further with
                          Executive Director for
       ^^^■^This does not make any sense. Our complaint is directly against Mr.
       ^^^^|as the Principal (Ms. H^^J) was taking directions from him. How can
        he then make the decision whetner or not the complaint is valid? This is
        clearly a conflict of interest. The matter has to be looked into without any bias
        by someone independent of Mr^^^^lor any members of his staff that report
        to him. Furthermore, it was not clear to us that we had the opportunity to
        raise our concerns further with                   Otherwise, we would have. Are
        we able to raise our concerns to Mr^^^^Hnow?).



   •   Our office does not investigate government policy - the mask mandate in NSW schools
       was policy that emanated from the Public Health Order which arose from a policy
       decision of the state government.        We are not asking you to investigate
        governmen^Jolicy^W^r^sking you to ask the Department of Education and
        the                          the evidence that they used to enforce the
        mask mandate onto their students. As the ombudsman you must be concerned
        about why some of the private and independent schools were allowed to not
        enforce the mask mandate onto their students.)


     - In conclusion, it is now a well-known fact that masks do more harm than good
t^cnildren.)

Please let us know how to appeal your decision to close this case.

Yours sincerely.

          & Andigone Aguilar
                                                    2
Kind regards




                            (she/her)

                                                                 anch | NSW Ombudsman

             E
W www.ombo.nsw.qov.au

Follow us on Twitter | Linkedin | Facebook

The NSW Ombudsman's office acknowledges the traditional owners and custodians across the
lands on which we live and work, and we pay our respects to their elders past and present and to
the next generation of leaders.




   Please consider the environment before printing this correspondence.




                                         For Official Use Only




ATTENTION: The information in this e-mail and any attachments is confidential. The
information may be legally privileged. The information is intended for the recipient identified in
the e-mail only. If you are not an intended recipient of this e-mail, please contact the
Ombudsman immediately that you received this e-mail, either by return e-mail or by telephone
on                 You should not review, print, re-send, distribute, store or take any action in
reliance on information in this e-mail or any attachments. You should also destroy all copies of
this e-mail and any attachments.




                                                       3
Andigone AGUILAR

From:                                Andigone AGUILAR
Sent:                                Thursday, 11 November 2021 9:30 AM
To:
Cc:                                  'andigone @aguilar.com.au'
Subject:                             RE:^^^ Membership [SEC=UNOFFICIAL]



                                                      UNOFFICIAL
Dear^^^J


Thank you for the follow up email.

Please continue to finalise ceasing my^^Hmembership. Membership fees are a small component for cancelling
my^^Jmembership.


Some of the reasons that prompted me to cancel my membership are as below:
   •   It seems that the ^^H'Unions will fight tooth and nail for petty issues but shy away from any serious ones
        e.g. Mandating/coercion of COVID-19 injections.


    •   Currently the unvaccinated are not being supported in any way what so ever by the unions. Being a casual
        we don't have many rights as it is but now we are limited to where we can work and how often we are
        rostered. There has never been mention of how the unvaccinated can resume working in areas such as the
        airport, e.g. use of rapid antigen testing.


    •   Currently the workplace is a sad place to be. From what I'm experiencing amongst other NSWIIE's staff is
        that they feel they have the right to exclude, gossip and joke about those that are not vaccinated. It's like an
        'elephant in the room' and higher management are just ignoring the signs. Every conversation leads to your
        vaccination status and staff constantly want to know what your vaccination status is even though it's none
        of their business.


    •   There is segregation of the two classes within the workplace, the unvaccinated are being treated like
        lepers. As you would be aware, due to the current NSW Public Health Orders, the unvaccinated are still
        wearing masks in office environments while other vaccinated staff don't social distance, kiss and hug like
        there was never a pandemic. This punishment is due to the unvaccinated making a medical choice NOT to
        be injected with a trial/provisional vaccine that doesn't protect your fully from the virus, there is no long
        term data to prove it is safe and currently has more adverse side effects than the virus itself, not forgetting
           it doesn't even stop the spread!

In all honesty if the workplace was worried about the health and safety of all their staff then rapid antigen tests
should have been considered for all staff.

There is no need to be in phone contact, these are only some of my current views and the emotional stress of
dealing with these ongoing daily issues both in life and the workplace is wearing me down.


All the best.
Andigone




                                                      UNOFFICIAL


                                                            i
