The Australian government, medical authorities and the mainstream media have not addressed or
offered clarity with excess deaths in the last year or so.
Health policies need to be rebalanced toward the patient. Australia’s current excess death rate should
be common knowledge and investigated. Health authorities are not driving this so the Prime Minister
should be.
Many committed and well qualified Australian doctors and scientists have been ignored and in many
circumstances their registrations suspended. They are individuals of good standing and high
qualifications, with opinions developed after considerable research on a consistent basis in the last
three years.
So many Australians are dying unexpectedly is the kind of thing that medical systems on every level
should routinely be tracking closely and communicating to politicians. If they fail in this duty then
politicians and public servants alike should be holding them accountable, no one should be disguising
the truth in order to smother the real inquiry.
It is claimed that many Australian lives were saved, a claim that can only be based on assumption-rich
modelling. There were rising excess death rates apparent from the first half of 2021, well before
COVID-19 disease could be construed to be making a serious contribution.
The milder Omicron variant took a significant toll on a greatly vaccinated population.
Until the implementation of the coercive mandatory lockdowns and vaccination-only strategy, there
was no pandemic of death. We now find ourselves in consecutive increases in excess mortality not
seen since wartime. In continued secrecy, our authorities implemented severe pandemic policies,
which an increasing number of Australians realize are in complete contradiction of their own
pandemic preparedness plans. The consequences of the failures are difficult to ignore.
Government excesses of power created through emergency legislation have been allowed to violate
our liberties. They were justified by largely unscientific and readily refutable claims. Fear was
wrongly employed by political leaders, using secret health advice to control the public. Health laws
gave chief health officers extraordinary powers to do almost anything they thought was reasonable
during a pandemic - which can be declared on opinion, and not on evidence, without justification.
So many Australians’ employment was terminated because they disagreed with because they didn’t
agree with taking a provisionally approved injection that didn’t avoid transmission nor preventing
hospitalization. We now experience a shortage of well qualified, experienced teachers, medical
practitioners, nurses, police and the list goes on.
There are doctors and scientists across Australia attempting to raise safety signals, seeking answers to
questions and data transparency for analysis. We need real debate, open scientific discourse,
acknowledgement of injuries, and unhindered access to accurate data and not simply statistical
modelling. The doctor-patient relationship should not have government and bureaucracy interfering.
