Submission to Members of the Federal Covid Enquiry

I am a retired Head Teacher, having emigrated from the^^^Hyears
ago. I have been proud to be an Australian citizen.

In regard to Governance Issues

My main concern has been the approach of Federal and thus State
Governments. Never in my life would I have believed the abuse of
personal freedom in deciding on a course of action regarding my
health.
I understood that I had freedom to make informed choices. This was
swept away as Government and the media as they broadcast fears of
masses of people dying.
According to ABS statistics released on 27/10/23 the number of
deaths reported to be "due to" Covid-19 was 15,460. ABS used
quotation marks. Not a high percentage definitely attributable just to
COVID-19 in a population of over 26 million.

Financial support for individuals

Vaccinations became mandatory for a wide range of people, many of
whom had concerns on the safety of the relatively untested MRNA
vaccines.
Many people decided to reject the vaccines and they lost their
employment. I know of many who have suffered financially. They
should be compensated for their loss.

Governance role and responsibility

Basically Government should be responsible for the well being of the
population. The Australian Government showed little respect for the
public, assuming people were incapable of making informed choices.
After a few weeks of the'Randemic' it became clear to many that we
were not being given accurate information. We were misled by
 unaccountable WHO bureaucrats. WHO proved to be unable to even
 recognise what happened in China.
 The TGA declared the vaccines to be "safe and effective" banned
 readily available Ivermectin and failed in its duty to thoroughly check
 the vaccines. Pharmaceutical companies paid highly for their
 relatively untested drugs to be declared safe. Risk benefit analysis not
 undertaken.

 So many people here suffered with long lockdowns, amongst the
 worst in the world. Families separated by State borders that had
 been irrelevant, parents separated from children in hospital, elderly
 people isolated.
 My owr^^^| in^^^^l not as a harsh a country with lockdowns,
 suffered greatly as neighbours and friend did not visit him, because
 of fear he might get Covid-19.
 I applied to leave Australia to go to him, but my application was
 rejected...no explanation. He wa^|and
^^^^He died alone, not from covid, but a fall.

 Here we had a State government using tear gas and rubber bullets
 on citizens peacefully protesting harsh measures. Unbelievable in a
 democracy! Where was the Federal Government allowing such
 draconian measures?
 Great harm has been done to families, children missing out on their
 education and the elderly in particular suffering isolation.

 The legacy for the Government is a serious loss of respect in the
 democratic process, can we trust the Government now? Lots of
 people are totally disillusioned.

 Future responses to health issues

 Leave the WHO as it is unaccountable, unreliable and being funded
 by Pharmaceutical companies etc. it is not honourable and we should
 not pay them to mislead us ever again.
