Relevance to the inquiry

Broader health and social supports
Exclusion from public venues
I am a regular patron of our local outdoor Council Swimming Pool and have been for some 10
years, yet I was excluded from entry over a dozen times since I did not agree to showing my Covid
vaccination status.
I wrote to the pool management each time, explaining each time an additional reason why I should
not be refused entry to the facility
At no time was I ill, and it is actually illegal for them to demand my medical information.
The mayor replied after a time, agreeing with me that the rules were somewhat inexplicable, but I
was still not allowed entry.
The pool staff had no grounds at all to refuse me entry, except for the ill conceived government rule
that they followed without knowing why.
All of the common sense at that time indicated that outdoor venues were completely safe in regard
to transmission of Cl9, and as far as I know there has been no documented case of it.
Three years on I have not changed my view.
Ironically, I am now allowed entry, free of charge, because of another rule that says that I should be
encouraged to look after my health.

Governance, including roles and responsibilities
I was not allowed to attend my mother’s funeral.
I was checked at a State border according Covid rules.
We curtailed travel since it was easier to remain home than to run the gauntlet of being marooned
away from home, without the proper and timely help. (My wife has a disability).
My doctor said he could not treat me if I got Covid, and gave me no direction about what to do
except, “go to hospital”.
We were forbidden from going to church.
We were unable to access and support the small businesses in our area.
In the RFS I was asked my vaccination status, mandated to wearing masks and limited to four to a
vehicle instead of six. Hence my services to that organisation, from which I have long service
recognition, ceased.
& Etc.

My experience reflects the breakdown of the following;
Governance should be small and individuals should as much as possible have responsibility for
their own life choices.
Governance should not be micro managing our lives.
Governance should be nimble, able to change, especially when serious issues are at stake, and also
when there is divided opinion on an important matter.
It was clear after the first month or two of the Covid pandemic that there was a lot of opinion
pushback and diversity from experts, and that the emergency measures were not needed, but instead
of responding to opinion (not even looking at it seriously), the governments doubled down with the
international narrative.
Australia is a sovereign nation and should not, without examination, follow the dictates of a foreign
organisation, even if we have broad assent to its vision.
The media should be allowed to mention, (perhaps even have a discussion about), that there were
views that did not agree with the narrative; (that narrative BTW seemed to be in lock step and
popping up all over the world. -Since when have nations agreed so much on anything) Red Flag!!
Petty bureaucrats were all too eager it seems, to get on a power trip and tell us what we could and
couldn’t do, including doctors, nurses, police, teachers, council staff, including the RFS; in fact any
one who was on a government payroll, or secondary or tertiary payment or approval system.
Major medical organisations governing doctors and drugs etc. should be open to full discussion and
examination of their governance, finances and the issues that face them in their business. How is it
that one such organisation in Australia is funded to the tune of 97% by the organisations over which
it has “control”.

Key health response measures
I experienced all of these issues in some way during the last four years of the Covid response.

Doctor/patient relationships: This was trashed and still is. How can I be confident that my doctor
will do the best for me when he is afraid of losing his practice certificate if he advises me of treats
me in a way that is not according to the dictates of the day.

My body my choice: Oh how we are lauded for such an opinion when it comes to abortion but are
not allowed to freely choose if and when to participate in "the biggest medical experiment in world
history". The sometimes crippling social, legal, mental and financial costs, of saying ‘no’ are not
“mandates” or “coercion” we have been told.

Early treatment: Any discussion about early treatments, and attempts to provide or procure such
were shut down. Nobody can hold a seriously moral view that includes such a scenario. How can
this not be a red flag that there is a serious problem with the Covid management?

Risk Benefit: The fact that every person was encouraged, mandated, to receive the jab, regardless of
age, fitness, health assessment, moral, religious or legal view, is another evidence of the madness of
this Covid response. Anyone would think that we were cattle.

One treatment regime fits all: How can it be that he same dose of a vaccine is appropriate for both a
200kg male and a 50kg woman, for a person aged with multiple morbidities and an elite athlete and
a 14 yo school kid?

Informed Consent: How can a person give informed consent when they are crying and saying “I
don’t want the jab”, or have not been given the time to read the product info, or not had the
discussion with the person/s in the Covid clinic team, or the person giving the Covid injection has
not engaged with the product info, or the doctor giving the jab is afraid to say anything negative
about the jab, or the pharmacy or other ‘nurse’ does not know how to administer the jab according
to the Australian Immunisation Handbook, esp in regard to ‘aspiration’, or the customer says “don’t
bother with that stuff, just give me the jab”?

Drug testing and approval: I am so angry, I can hardly write about this. “Safe and effective” has
probably been the biggest deliberate lie told to us in generations. This must not be allowed to
happen again. Anybody who is culpable in propagating this lie must bear the burden of justice.

Support for industry and businesses
The issue of ‘big box stores’ vs the soft targets of small business:
It was completely irrational for small business to be shut down when larger ones and boutique ones
were allowed to stay open. Irrational; i.e. in regard to Covid management. One cannot but help
thinking that there was some other reason behind this blanket decision that did not have any nuance
or appeal facility.
