We the Australian public demand a royal commission, without restriction and limitation, into the
failed mismanagement and response to the Covid 19 pandemic. The below points are but a few
issues that come to mind in retrospect.

Media miss-information about vaccines preventing infection and transmission and the claims that
the vaccines would achieve herd immunity. This was while other countries like Israel were majority
double vaxxed with real data available to challenge these claims. Coupled with media/social media
censorship of any opinion or evidence challenging the narrative.

The PCR test was not designed for the purpose of testing masses for viruses and should not have
been used. The cycle threshold used for the PCR test was deliberately above 40 to generate an
alarming rate of false positives.

The TGA/ ATAGI/ AHPRA gag order preventing medical professionals to treat/advise their patients
with autonomy.

The banning of ivermectin when it was clearly working in conjunction with zinc and antibiotics - all
around the world.

The Government's deliberate failure to support the only true vaccine against covid 19 - IN THE
WORLD - Covax-19 by Professor Patrovsky. Proven safe and effective against infection and
transmission. IF you truly wanted to stop the pandemic, you would have rushed this vaccine through
the approval process under the emergency blanket like all the others or at the very least, funded it's
research.

The police enforcing mandates that were unfounded in law and that were unconstitutional.

The state premiers lying to the public about cases, hospitalizations and deaths knowing full well the
PCR cycle threshold was above 40, that anyone presenting for any condition (whatsoever) to a
hospital was counted as a covid hospitalization simply for testing positive and that anyone that died
having tested positive for covid within a 28 day period was deemed a death related to covid. Skewed
numbers for alarmist purposes only.

Corrupt politicians and secret contracts with pharmaceutical companies committing to not allow any
other treatments other than the untested experimental injections they sold as supposed vaccines.

The expert witnesses that lied in court about the vaccines preventing covid infection and
transmission.

The useless lockdowns/travel restrictions that still resulted in everyone catching covid. These were
unconstitutional and only achieved the generation of debt via government bailouts/handouts. This
has resulted in the cost-of-living crisis, interest rate hikes and has further fueled the housing crisis.

The indemnity given to pharmaceutical companies regarding vaccine injuries. The deliberate cover
up of vaccine injuries. The lack of support for the victims of vaccine injuries. The lack of ease for
doctors to report vaccine injuries.

Not being allowed to go to work and feed our families because either our vaccine of choice was
unavailable, or we chose not to partake in the trials for the available jabs.

The origins of the covid 19 virus and gain of function research on coronavirus and other viruses.

                 -14 Dec 2023.
