                                                    OFFICIAL




Submission for the Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry—Attorney-General's Department
                                                                                                  January 2024

Overview
This submission provides an overview of the Attorney-General's Department's (the department)
contributions during the COVID-19 pandemic (the pandemic), to inform the COVID-19 Response Inquiry. The
department would welcome the opportunity to engage further with the Inquiry at the appropriate time,
including facilitating a discussion with relevant portfolio agencies.

The department supported the Australian legal system and legal assistance sector throughout the pandemic,
delivered legal and policy advice and legislative reform on a wide variety of matters related to the pandemic
response and, in conjunction with the Australian Government Solicitor, advised the government on a broad
range of legal issues central to the pandemic response of both national and international importance.

Machinery of government in July 2022 resulted in all industrial relations-related functions moving to the
Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (such as the development of the National COVID-19
safe workplace principles and the establishment of Safe Work Australia as a central hub for workplace health
and safety guidance). Functions that progressed Identity Matching Services in support of a number of
pandemic measures moved into the department from the Department of Home Affairs in August 2023.

Ensuring the functioning of legal frameworks and the justice sector during the pandemic
The department supported the federal courts and tribunals to adjust their practices in response to the
pandemic, and to publish guidance on operations during the pandemic. The family law jurisdiction of the
(then) Family Court of Australia and Federal Circuit Court of Australia was particularly impacted by the
pandemic, with a key response being the establishment of the                 >t to deal with urgent family law-
related disputes arising from impacts of the pandemic.

The department worked with state and territory courts and correctional services to ensure the continued
operation of criminal and civil justice systems throughout the pandemic, including preventative action to
stop the spread of COVID-19 in prisons and youth detention centres. Further information on the effective
transition of court hearings to virtual platforms during the pandemic is best obtained from the courts.

The department provided additional funding to the legal assistance sector through the COVID-19 Legal
Assistance Funding agreement to respond to the increased demand on legal assistance services caused by
the pandemic, and to support legal assistance services to transition to virtual service delivery. These virtual
services have been sustained post-COVID, continuing to enhance community access to legal support across
Australia.

The department continued to support the delivery of initiatives to address family, domestic and sexual
violence, including the provision of additional funding for the Family Violence and Cross-Examination of
                 due to high demand.

The department also waived the annual registration fee for Commonwealth-registered marriage celebrants
in 2020-21 (approximately 10,000 celebrants).

Preventing criminal exploitation of pandemic response measures

Fraud Prevention
The department and the Australian Federal Police established the                   th              ur


                                                    OFFICIAL
                                                  OFFICIAL



           in March 2020 to support agencies designing and delivering responses to the pandemic to identify
key fraud risks to program integrity. The taskforce worked with domestic and international experts to
identify opportunities to safeguard future emergency relief and stimulus measures against fraud and
corruption. The guidance developed by the department has since been recognised as international best
practice by the International Public Sector Fraud Forum.

The department's Commonwealth Fraud Prevention Centre provided advice and support on pandemic
stimulus measures, including to Treasury through the JobKeeper Program Risk and Integrity Inter­
Departmental Committee.

Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Forum

The Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Forum (CJLEF) consists of the heads of 17 Commonwealth
agencies and was established by the Department of Home Affairs in 2017-18 to bring together the
Commonwealth's collective capabilities against capable and well-resourced organised crime syndicates.
CJLEF met numerous times over the course of 2020 and 2021, focusing on the impact of the pandemic on
organised crime and law enforcement activity in Australia, and preparing strategic reports on this impact and
Commonwealth efforts to address emerging threats. Responsibility for the CJLEF transferred to the
department from the Department of Home Affairs in 2022.

Whole of government advice on pandemic response measures

Australian Government Solicitor
The Australian Government Solicitor provided significant support to the government's pandemic response,
acting, advising and providing guidance across government on extensive matters relating to economic,
quarantine, health, industrial relations and legal practice and risk measures throughout the pandemic.

International Law
The department provided advice on a range of international legal issues arising in the context of domestic
measures adopted in response to the pandemic, including restrictions on inwards and outwards travel and
other health measures designed to reduce the spread of COVID-19 within Australia. The department worked
closely with relevant Commonwealth agencies to ensure these measures were adopted in a manner
consistent with Australia's obligations under international aviation law, international health law, the law of
the sea, international human rights law and international trade and investment law.

Human Rights
The department provided advice to government on anti-discrimination laws, as well as to the Australian
public on their human rights in the context of the government's pandemic response. The department was
responsible for providing advice and reporting on core international human rights treaties and provided
information about Australia's pandemic response to United Nations human rights reports, contributing to
the pandemic-related work of the United Nations Human Rights Council, United Nations Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights, and the United Nations General Assembly.

Legislative reforms
The department progressed urgent privacy law amendments to the Privacy Act 1988 in support of the
release of the COVIDSafe app, and played a key role in scrutinising proposals relating to the handling of
personal information throughout the government's pandemic response. These efforts helped bolster public
trust and confidence in the data collection practices being used to support the pandemic response.

The department progressed bankruptcy amendments to the Bankruptcy Act 1966 to assist individuals
experiencing financial hardship. The Fair Work Act 2009 was also    d to permit the temporary standing
down of employees during the JobKeeper Scheme. The department also progressed the Coronavirus

                                                                                                             2
                                                  OFFICIAL
                                                  OFFICIAL



Economic Response Package (Modifications—Statutory Declarations and Notices of Intention to Marry)
Determination 2021 to temporarily amend the Statutory Declarations Act 1959 and its regulations to allow
Commonwealth statutory declarations to be witnessed remotely via audio-visual link and signed
electronically. Further amendments have been made to the Statutory Declarations Act 1959 to maintain the
electronic and digitally verified execution of documents.

Further contributions

Identity Matching Services
The Identity Matching Services, established through a partnership between the Commonwealth, state and
territory governments under the Intergovernmental Agreement on Identity Matching Services, provided key
support to Australian public and private sector entities managing the health impacts of the pandemic, by
facilitating private, secure and fast identity verification services. This included the rapid connection and
support of the delivery of the International COVID-19 Vaccination Certificate from Services Australia, and
identity verification services for applications and programs used to track and monitor COVID-19 infections.

Portfolio measures
In support of the department's measures progressed in response to the pandemic, the Australian Financial
Security Authority administered the changes to bankruptcy law to assist those in financial difficulty, the
Australian Human Rights Commission developed online esc ces for the public, as well as investigating
racial discrimination complaints which increased, in particular during the early stages of the pandemic, and
the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner provided public pandemic privacy guidance, as well as
convening a National COVID-19 Privacy Team.

Internal measures
The department's internal pandemic response included measures to support remote work mobilisation,
including extending service desk hours to support approximately 1200 staff working remotely and increasing
network capacity. A COVID-19 Coordination Taskforce was established to ensure a whole-of-department
approach to supporting the Attorney-General and engaging with decision-making bodies, including the
National Coordination Mechanism. The department also contributed to surge staffing through the Australian
Public Service Surge Reserve, providing staffing to Services Australia during the 2021-2022 financial year.

Lessons and future contributions
The measures set out above demonstrate the department's critical role in progressing initiatives that
ensured all Australians were able to access, or continue accessing, assistance, justice and employment
systems in a way that was appropriate and responsive to their needs during the pandemic.

The department recognises that in the current context of integrity-focused APS and government reform,
many of the initiatives being progressed to strengthen integrity may likewise address the considerations of
this inquiry, such as those relating to record keeping, transparency and accountability. The department
would welcome engaging with the Inquiry further on the lessons learned and its experience of the pandemic.

Cain Beckett, Assistant Secretary, Strategy and Governance Branch, is the department's point of contact for
the Inquiry. Mr Beckett can be contacted at                         or




                                                                                                              3
                                                  OFFICIAL
