The Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia
ABN 52 000 173 231
                                                   Durham Hall 207 Albion Street Surry Hills NSW 2010 Australia
                                                   Telephone 61 2 8356 5858         Facsimile   61 2 8356 5828    •RCPA
                                                                                                                  The Koval College of Pathologists of Australasia



               19 December 2023


              To: The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
              Via Website Submission: Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response
              Inquiry | PM&C (pmc.qov.au)



              To The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel


                                                   Re: COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel


              The Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia (RCPA) is the leading organisation
              representing pathologists and senior laboratory scientists in Australasia. Its mission is to train
              and support pathologists and to improve the use of pathology testing to achieve better
              healthcare.

              During the COVID-19 pandemic, the College played a vital role in supporting healthcare
              messaging and education to the public in attempts to counter misinformation. The College
              contributed over 1000 media pieces across all media modalities during the pandemic.

              It is strongly advised that the panel consider the role played by both the public and the
              private pathology sectors in the COVID-19 response. They both had a critical role in
              evaluating, performing testing, adapting to the changing needs and circumstances, and the
              delivery of results to patients and to Health departments in a timely, efficient manner. The
              College acted as a conduit to support this efficiency and lead the discussions regarding
              costings of the SARS-CoV-2 MBS item and adoption of the direct-to-consumer COVID-19
              PCR test results. This allowed for appropriate remuneration of pathology labs in delivering
              this critical service and aided in advancing technological change that is still being seen today.

              Additionally, through its extensive networks, the College provided the Department of Health
              (DOH) with continued oversight and support of the delivery of high-quality pathology in our
              country despite often extreme and challenging circumstances. This relationship cemented
              the advocacy role of the College, and the strong relationship between the DOH and RCPA
              continues to this date.

              The College looks forward to the findings of the COVID-19 response panel and the continued
              acknowledgement of how the pathology sector contributed to Australia’s successful
              management of the pandemic.

               If you have any questions, please contact president@rcpa.edu.au

              Sincerely,




              A/Prof Trishe Leong
              President
              Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia
