Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I am an academic working in a large public university. I regularly teach sizeable undergraduate
student cohorts in lecture- and tutorial-based subjects in large lecture theatre settings.

Poor ongoing public health policies, messaging and guidance from government and
health authorities around the continue COVID-19 pandemic

Although the shift to online teaching during 2020 and 2021 was disruptive, I have significant
concerns about the way in which the return to face-to-face teaching was handled as a result of
positions taken by government and health authorities.

Although I am conscious that protocols for the resumption of in-person teaching were the
responsibility of individual universities, those policies have largely taken place in the context of a
lack of clear leadership, policies, public health messaging and guidance from federal and state
authorities and public health agencies.

Despite the fact that we continue to face ongoing waves of COVID-19 infections, no strong
mitigation measures have been established to minimise transmission in high-risk indoor
settings. In particular:

    •   there have been no policies requiring minimum air-quality standards or stipulating
        number of air-changes per hour, especially in the context of crowded indoor spaces, for
        example, in the context of large fully-enclosed lecture theatres or other teaching spaces.
        There is no widely available real-time air quality data that is made readily available for
        these settings.

    •   government and health authorities have not established or normalised a culture of
        wearing of high-quality P2 or N95 face masks in settings in which many people are
        gathered together indoors.

    •   messaging over maintaining up-to-date vaccination has weakened over time, resulting in
        fewer people having maximum vaccination protection. However, I do appreciate that
        ATAGI has continued to make regular booster doses available to Australian adults
        without specific health conditions. I would like to see this continue, although I believe
        that more can be done to encourage their uptake. Nevertheless, I would also like to see
        the availability of the paediatric vaccine for ages 6 months to 5 years.

Thank you for considering this submission.
