NOTES FROM VIDEO WITH THE ECHO CHAMBER AND WARRIOR AT LAW


QUESTIONS TO ASK YOUR EMPLOYER - IN RELATION TO VACCINE/GENE THERAPY
MANDATES


  •   Do you have proof of receipt of service of a Public Health Order or Biosecurity Control Order
      with my name on it?
  •   Did you receive a Public Health Order or Biosecurity Control Order recently that is personally
      and individually addressed to the business or yourself? If so, where in that order did it confer
      the powers of authority for the employer to enforce this?


NOTES


  •   Commonwealth and Crown Officials and Officers are the only people allowed to enforce the
      mandates. If my employer is not a Crown Official or Officer, there are massive penalties for
      acting as or impersonating a Commonwealth Crown Official or Officer as per the Crimes Act
      1914 which is Commonwealth legislation and covers the entire country.
  •   Laws in Australia are made via an act of Parliament - not by media releases or politicians.
      How did this become a law? If it wasn’t an act of parliament, it’s not a law.
  •   Our rights are only lost when we voluntarily give them up. We are currently trading our rights
      voluntarily for privileges.
  •   There are other choices and options - just because they’re not offered, doesn’t mean they’re
      not there.
  •   Employers are being offered big incentives to mandate and some being threatened fines to
      not. They’re also in a tricky situation.
  •       Aged care industry losing staff rapidly - businesses on all levels being affected as well
  •   Businesses who are not on the list of ‘being required’ to mandate jabs are locking out
      unvaccinated because they are filled with fear. Take your business elsewhere. Money talks
      so spend it elsewhere. Who is not enforcing this tyranny? Let’s support them. Drive 30
      minutes to a cafe in order to support them. Detach from your old life if you truly want to stand
      in your sovereignty. If you want to see change, you’re going to have to make uncomfortable
      changes. The comfort zone is dead - we need rapid change, now. Look at what we’re fighting
      for, not what we’re fighting against.
Refugees are moving back to their warn torn countries. They feel safer there than they do
here now. They see what the Government is currently doing. They’ve seen it happen over
there and they’re watching happen in Australia.
Isn’t it illegal to advertise vaccines on TV? Are the Government the only ones allowed to do
that?
Have you been called a conspiracy theorist? Apparently you are still a conspiracy theorist if
you’re not supportive of the passports and mandates. How did we just ignore the fact that the
conspiracy theories are not actually conspiracy and they’ve come true?
The Government need the people to comply for this to work. There’s 2 ways this can go -
potentially a rebellion looming? Or enough people stand up and the Government starts to do
their job and serve the people.
Many fines are not holding up in court. These mandates are not law. For laws to pass, they
need to go through both the Lower and Upper Houses of Parliament. Queensland has not
had an Upper House in Parliament since 1922.
Many people will take a convenient lie over an inconvenient truth. People are in denial.
They’re scared.
The boosters will continue with no end in sight
There are now TV advertisements like ‘sticky blood’ for smokers and myocarditis in children
as part of the conditioning process to wipe the fact that reactions ARE happening.
More and more people are waking up - FOCUS on this. Have faith. Embody that.
Some businesses have copped some fines for standing up and threatened to be shut down.
But a public health order must be in writing and it must name the person who it is for. Have
you met anyone in Australia who is in receipt of a Public Health Order of Biosecurity Order
with his or her name on it?
Go to Warrior at Law website - know your rights and know what you can do. The Government
is counting on you to comply. Humanity is counting on you to stand up.
Someone recently contacted their local MP to see their vaccination status and the response
was that this was private information protected under Human Rights Act Article 8. If that
protects them, it protects all of us. We are all equal before the law.
Media releases DO NOT create the law
The media lie - a woman in the Northern Territory heard the Health Minister on the radio
saying “anyone over the age of 5 years old is not going to be able to leave the NT unless
they’ve had the jab”. This woman is not from the NT so she immediately thought she needed
to pack her family up and leave. However, she questioned it and rang the radio station
directly and asked for the source of information for that. They called her back one hour later
and admitted that it was not true.
   •   What’s more important to you? Copping a fine that you’ve got a massive chance of not
       having to pay when it goes to court, or your freedoms and rights? Get off your knees.
   •   We’ve got some amazing police officers who have been stood down who would not enforce
       this nonsense. Look up Cops for Covid Truth. There are other amazing officers still working
       and trying to do the right thing on the job. Again, it’s not what we’re fighting against - it’s what
       we’re fighting for. Pick your battles. It’s okay to lose the odd battle.
   •   If you can look at the absolute nonsense of these ‘rules and mandates’ and have a giggle
       about it, it’ll get rid of the fear. Keep a light heart e.g. unvaccinated must sit down and drink
       however if you’re vaccinated you can stand up and drink in a pub.
   •   United we stand. We’ve got nothing when we are divided. Whether you’re for or against this
       vaccine, it doesn’t matter. This is about the right to choose, free of coercion. This isn’t about
       vaccinated versus unvaccinated. NO matter which side of the fence of the vaccine issue you
       sit on, it’s not about that. It’s about our rights, freedoms and choice. When does it stop? How
       much hurt and pain does Australia have to go through before we turn around and stand up?
   •   Will you be able to look into your grandchildren’s eyes in 20 years time and tell them that you
       took a stand and did everything you could? What will we tell the future generations? What
       legacy are we leaving behind if we don’t do something? It’s scary as heck. But we can do
       this.
   •         “She’ll be right?” She’s not right at the moment. It’s time to take a stand.


Liability


Big Pharma, doctors and nurses administering vaccine/gene therapy are exempt from liability for
damages. Liability goes on the employer - even if you were no longer employed by the company, if
you were vaccinated/jabbed while employed, employer is still liable


Breach of work contract


   •   If you have an employment contract and the contract doesn’t mention that you are required to
       have a vaccine to perform your job, this is now a breach of contract. Employers are liable for
       breach of contract - for some people there is no end date on the contract. The Fair Work
       Commission has pay outs capped at $30 000 or $50 000 in some cases. Fair Work
       Commission payouts are going to take time.
   •   Do not quit your job - this means you absolve the contract. Ensure that employers let you
       go.
   •         It is not entirely legal to be forced to take your annual or sick leave when stood down.
   •         If it’s not in the contract, the employer cannot enforce it without breaching contract
If you’re going to lose your job if you refuse the jab, where do you go?


People are being told to go to the Fair Work Commission (currently inundated) or Human Rights
Commission (no one at the captain of the ship - job position has been vacant for months and won’t
be filled until late November 2021).


What about showing your vaccine records?


This is your personal and private medical information. You are not required to show that to anyone
other than your doctor. They do not have authority to enforce this or see your private medical
records, as they are not Commonwealth Crown Officials and Officers.


Employers are asking employees to voluntarily provide vaccine certificates because they would
be in breach of Privacy Laws. It is a breach of the Privacy Act 1988, Disability Discrimination Act
1992, Declaration of Human Rights, Constitution of Commonwealth of Australia 51.23 and 81.09
and Commonwealth Crimes Act 1914.


Religious Exemptions


   •   Commonwealth Constitution Section 116 states that the Government is not allowed to place
       an observance as a requirements upon your religious beliefs -
   •   Regardless of how others see it, that is one of our basic human rights to have our own
       religion
