13 December 20203




"he Burnet Institute’s
response to The
Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry




                       Burnet
                        reach for the many
Executive summary
In this submission we focus on high-level outcomes of the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia and identify lessons to assist planning
for the next pandemic and ending those we currently have. We conclude that Australia's COVID-19 mitigation strategy in 2020­
21 was remarkably successful; tens of thousands of lives were saved, and these savings were sustained over subsequent years.
This approach provides key guidance to address future pandemic threats. But we should also aim to achieve this goal without
harsh restrictions on movements at both the local (stay-at-home) and macro (border closure) levels. The dual goals of 1)
preserving health of the community and 2) maintaining open societies (often wrongly presented as mutually exclusive) should
form the backbone of future responses. We suggest ways this can be achieved based on the principles of strong preparation,
leaving no one behind, and engaging communities. This Burnet Institute response is informed by preliminary results from a
program of work being undertaken to examine the comparative health, social, and economic cost of COVID to Australia.

Burnet Institute
Burnet made interdisciplinaryj global^ national^                         and state-level contributions supporting
evidence-based COVID-19 policyj including in:
•   Modelling: The COVASIM model informed Victorian, NSW and Commonwealth public health policy, including supporting
    Victoria's Roadmap: Delivering the National Plan and National Framework for Managing COVID-19 in Schools and Early
    Childhood Education and Care (1, 2).
•   Public Health and Epidemiological Research and Capacity: Burnet capabilities delivered technical capacity into governments
    and provided timely and high-quality data to inform and impactful policies. For example, the Optimise Study - a partnership
    between the Burnet and Doherty Institutes - rapidly reported longitudinal cohort data to government and community and
    parametised models.
•   Laboratory Research: Burnet laboratories informed COVID-19 vaccine, antiviral, and diagnostics development.
•   International response: The Burnet supported large health program adaptations in Myanmar and PNG to respond to COVID-
    19, and contributed to multilateral mechanisms of support, such as the COVAX mechanism in a number of ways.
The Burnet Institute, the Doherty Institute, and the University of Melbourne are foundation partners of the Australia    Institute
for Infectious Disease (AIID), supported by the Victorian Government. Housing the largest critical mass of public health
professionals in the Southern Hemisphere, the AIID will be well positioned to work with governments to prevent, prepare and
respond to current and future pandemics and health emergencies.

Global context of the health impacts (excess mortality) of COVID-19 in Australia
The COVID-19 pandemic created unprecedented global health, scientific, social and political challenges. With 7 million confirmed
COVID-19 deaths and 25 million related excess deaths so far, for the first time in 70 years, life expectancy in all regions has
decreased (3, 4, 5). COVID-19 was the 3rd leading cause of death in Australia in 2022 (6). While the emergency phase is over,
COVID-19 remains the major infectious disease of concern, including through the significant negative impacts of long COVID.
The IMF projected the pandemic will cost the global economy US$13.8 billion by 2024 (7). COVID has directly and indirectly
impacted health systems and halted or reversed progress on other global and domestic health priorities.
Country-level excess mortality per person, the best comparative COVID health impact indicator, is provided in Attachment 1.1.
Comparisons of excess death show the quality of Australia's response in 2020-2021 (pre-vaccine and pre-Omicron) compared
to other countries, and the marked difference in comparative effectiveness of Australia's response in 2022-2023 (post-vaccine
and post-Omicron). In 2020-21, Australia's excess deaths per person was 33 times lower than the UK, 46 times lower than the
USA, and 61 times lower than South Africa. In 2022-23, Australia's excess death per person became more closely aligned with
countries like the UK, USA, and South Africa (1.2, 0.9, and 0.7 times that of Australia, respectively).

Insights on Australia's response to the COVID-19 pandemic
Below we reflect of the relative success of COVID-19 phases that correspond to the \latior I P            nsit n Australia's
COVID-19 Response.

2020-2021 - Acting fastj decisivelyj and equitably led to large and sustained comparative
health gains
Australia's rapid deployment of public health COVID mitigation strategies, including border closures and quarantine1, resulted
in zero community transmissions across significant parts of the country over significant periods, preventing the substantial
morbidity and mortality seen in other countries. Public health responses worked to contain several outbreaks across three
successive COVID waves (L, Delta, first Omicron outbreak in Nov 2021) (Attachment 1.2) and protected Australia's health system.


1The three pillars of the response included Test, Trace, Isolate and Quarantine (TTIQ), Public Health and Social Measures
(PHSM), and Vaccination. Pillars missing, but crucial, included community-centric approach and 'care and support'.

Burnet Institute: Commonwealth COVID-19 Response Inquiry | 13 December 2023                                               Page 1
Large parts of Australia experienced a predominately COVID-free and lock-down free 2020-2021, with the exception of
Melbourne and parts of Sydney (Attachment 1.2). Internal border controls and pre-emptive containment strategies were largely
concentrated in Melbourne and 12 LGAs in Sydney, corresponding with areas vulnerable to ports of entry into Australia, Hotel
Quarantine networks, and population density. This globally unique federated response was largely effective, but resulted in
inequitable health, economic, and social burden across Australia. Alleviation of this burden was delayed by Australia's late
COVID-19 vaccine rollout (commencing Feb 2021) relative to other developed countries. Vaccine coverage was lower than other
countries in early 2021, due predominately to limitations in the vaccine acquisition program and supply constraints (see H; n
review). Once widely available, vaccine intention increased rapidly (8). High coverage was further facilitated public health
education and messaging, by vaccination blitzes, expanded Vaxzervia eligibility, and mandatory vaccination requirements.

2022-2023 - A reversal in Australians relative global advantage in protecting lives
Towards the end of 2021, Australia was progressing along a phased exit plan (National Transition Plan), with gradual reopening
aligned to vaccine coverage targets. The emergence of the highly transmissible Omicron variant in Nov/Dec 2021 precipitated a
strategy change, accelerating opening and policies oriented to a 'living with COVID-19'. In just a few months a large proportion
of Australia were infected for the first time, the rapid spread of Omicron overwhelmed surveillance systems (9), and previous
public health strategies, such as TTIQ became obsolete. Some adaptive public health strategies were introduced, in particular
changes those centred on rapid antigen testing (e.g., COVID testing policies in schools to maximise in person learning (1)).
Duringtransition, there was a perception that allowing Omicron to spread through a vaccinated population (strengthened hybrid
immunity), would not result in the same risk of severe disease and death as Delta if high-risk individuals were protected. Between
January 2022 and July 2023, Australia has had over 28,000 excess deaths (Attachment 1.1).
After the first Omicron wave, the COVID-19 response strategy became unclear. Despite the release of the COVID-19 Health
Management Plan for 2023, no clear consensus emerged on balancing strategies to reduce transmission versus managing COVID-
19 "like the flu". In July 2022, in response to BA.4/BA.5 variants, the winter update AHPPC statement emphasised a need for
collective action to reduce transmission to save lives, the health system and the economy, but resulted in little action by
governments. Australia does not yet have a clear strategic framework, targets, or public health program for managing COVID-19
into the future.
A lack of clear government response during this phase appeared based on assumptions that a social or political licence to enact
COVID-19 public health responses was no longer present among a weary and fatigued population. While likely true for restrictive
measures adopted in the first phase, which would not be appropriate nor proportionate to the public health risk posed in 2022­
2023, a middle ground was largely not pursued. The short-term and least disruptive strategies to dampen transmission proposed
in the winter update AHPPC statement (e.g., wearing masks in crowded indoor environments) would have helped preserve
health and health systems. But despite these strategies also aligning with the policy position of the National Cabinet and
Australian Government that emphasised "personal responsibility" for COVID prevention, widespread COVID-91 health
promotion or related government communication did not occur.

2023 and onwards - Ongoing management of COVID-19 in Australia
A community-centred response: Community must be at the centre of sustainable COVID management. While an emphasis on
"personal responsibility" remains key, governments must subsidise access and promote the tools necessary to help individuals
reduce risk for themselves and others (10). Cohort data from 2021-22 showed most Victorians voluntarily adopted personal risk
reduction strategies perceived as proportional (11), demonstrating that emphasising individual responsibility can be effective
and sustainable if public health messaging effectively communicates the benefits. However, a reliance on personal responsibility
must also consider the potentially disproportionate affect this may have on vulnerable communities (12).
Community-centred responses must balance interventions that are effective at preventing health impacts and those that least
disrupt and are most acceptable, in order to ensure high coverage/uptake and minimise social and economic burden. The focus
should be on: 1) sustaining vaccine uptake; 2) sustaining testing; 3) a clean indoor air strategy to reduce systemic risk; and 4)
effective strategies to address Long-COVID (as identified in the National Inquiry into Long-COVID and Repeated Infection
Sustaining vaccination: Similar death rates between countries in the Omicron era suggests cross-variant, infection-based
immunity is not sufficiently protective without vaccination. COVID-19 vaccine intention reached 99% in mid-2021 (8), but by
mid-2022 this had reduced to 60% intention to seek a booster (Attachment 1.3). Research is crucial to gain a nuanced
understanding of gaps in current vaccine uptake intent (beyond demographics and considering socio-cultural and structural
factors) to inform renewed and targeted health promotion and systems interventions to improve and maintain vaccine coverage.
Testing and treatment: Sustaining testing and ensuring equitable access to affordable tests is vital. Supporting access to tests
and encouraging their use will help prevent cases by informing individual-level preventive behaviours (e.g., isolation, mask­
wearing) and enable timely treatment with effective antivirals for those at high-risk (19).



Burnet Institute: Commonwealth COVID-19 Response Inquiry | 13 December 2023                                               Page 2
Clean indoor air: Enhancing indoor air quality via effective and scalable interventions like ventilation is a minimally disruptive
strategy. This approach supports respiratory health, lowers infection risk, including COVID-19, and protects against airborne
pollutants. Governments should support the public and private sector to implement clean air strategies and promote the role
clean air in supporting a healthier environment and general well-being. These strategies will mitigate risk in future pandemics.
Addressing the accruing long-COVID burden: Long COVID has wide-ranging effects on personal wellbeing, the healthcare system,
and the economy, but the magnitude of its long-term impact is not fully understood (13). Ongoing acute COVID-19 infections
will increase cases of long COVID and contribute to future health, social, and economic burden. Thus, managing long COVID
should focus on minimising transmission through the strategies listed above and promoting community awareness to reduce
risk, while also investing in research and clinical management.

Pandemic preparedness - community centred, sub-national, and global pandemic governance, and
research-government partnership
The key principles for pandemic preparedness that COVID-19 has highlighted include: 1) being "passively ready" by investing in
improved indoor air standards and investing in science to have countermeasures ready and adaptive; 2) equity-based financing
and delivery mechanisms to ensure equitable sub-national and international access to countermeasures; and 3) investing in
social science and community engagement to ensure tools are appropriate, acceptable, and adopted when they are needed.
Community at the centre and a focus on equity
During the COVID-19 pandemic, disparities emerged in both policy impacts and transmission risks among different cohorts and
future pandemic policies must address the underlying socio-ecological drivers of this disparity. For example, culturally and
linguistically diverse communities experienced disproportionate mental health impacts, financial hardships (14), and stigma and
racism, including through the enforcement of COVID-19 policies (15). In addition, social, cultural, or financial conditions
influenced ecological risk through increased contact exposures due to factors like residing in lower-cost, densely populated, or
shared built environments, or in larger household sizes. Targeted policy adjustments and broader societal changes to tackle
structural inequities will minimise of the negative impacts of future pandemics and pandemic responses. Increased research and
practice emphasis needs to be placed on social science and community engagement to better understand and address the social
and behavioural drivers of transmission. Burnet Institute's Optimise study is an example; maintenance of a longitudinal cohort
to capture changes in pandemic attitudes and impacts, alongside qualitative community engagement research, informed policies
that aligned to dynamic public health challenges (16,17).
National governance must balance an evidence-informed unified approach with tailored and local
responsiveness
COVID-19 crossed Commonwealth and State/Territory areas of responsibility, requiring increased inter-governmental
cooperation. Our federated system of government had advantages; circumstances varied between geographies, justifying
bespoke local responses (e.g., National Framework for Managing COVID-19 in Schools and Early Childhood Education and Care
guidelines allowed states to adopt different screening strategies, as recommended by Burnet and Doherty Institutes in
Commonwealth-commissioned modelling (1)). But divergent government priorities also blurred lines of responsibility and led to
divisive practices (e.g., different border control policies). A future pandemic governance model must ensure an evidence-
informed and unified national approach, with a framework for local responsiveness. Here, while a future Australian Centre for
Disease Control (ACDC) is an important development, its ability to provide advice independent of government will be crucial.
Future pandemics need a science-based and coordinated global response
Limited international coordination during the COVID-19 pandemic delayed information and data sharing and led to inequities in
response capabilities (e.g., vaccine distribution) and impacts. Aligning with interconnected global health challenges, effective
pandemic governance in Australia should promote a response that transcends borders (see Burnet submission to the
Department of Health and Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Pandemic Accord consultation). This is not just because, as
a global citizen, we have responsibilities to contribute to the safety and protection of our region, but because pandemics
transcend borders; control strategies and capabilities in one country affects others. Averting future pandemic risks requires early
detection and intervention and requires a global approach to surveillance and preparedness.
Collaboration between government and research institutions is crucial
A hallmark of the Australia evidence-informed COVID-19 response was cooperation between government and public health,
clinical, and laboratory research experts, and the trust of governments to enact policy based on the expert advice received.
Epidemic modelling played a key role in shapingthe COVID-19 response, particularly in the initial phases of the pandemic when
empirical data was absent or emerging. Maintaining and enhancing research and inter-governmental cooperation, including a
commitment to share data, expertise, and resources, will be crucial to underpinning future preparedness and effective,
consistent, and equitable pandemic responses. The AIID initiative, and the way it will work with government and its partners,
such as the ACDC, will play a vital role in enhancing coordination and response capacity for future pandemics.




Burnet Institute: Commonwealth COVID-19 Response Inquiry | 13 December 2023                                                Page 3
References
1. Abeysuriya, R.G., Sacks-Davis, R., Heath, K., Delport, D., Russell, F.M., Danchin, M., Hellard, M., McVernon, J., Scott, N.,
   2023. Keeping kids in school: modelling school-based testing and quarantine strategies during the COVID-19 pandemic in
   Australia. Front, public Heal. 11,1150810. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2023.1150810
2. Scott, N., Palmer, A., Delport, D., Abeysuriya, R., Stuart, R.M., Kerr, C.C., Mistry, D., Klein, D.J., Sacks-Davis, R., Heath, K.,
   Hainsworth, S.W., Pedrana, A., Stoove, M., Wilson, D., Hellard, M.E., 2021. Modelling the impact of relaxing COVID-19
   control measures during a period of low viral transmission. Med. J. Aust. 214, 79-83. https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.50845
3. World Health Organisation, 2023. WHO Coronavirus (COVID-19) Dashboard, https://covidl9.whc nt/?mapFilter=deaths,
   Viewed 15 December 2023.
4. Giattino, C., Ritchie, H., Ortiz-Ospina, E., Hasell, J., Rodes-Guirao, L, Roser, M., 2023. Excess mortality during the
   Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). Published online at OurWorldlnData.org. Retrieved from:
   'https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus' [Online Resource]. Viewed 15 December 2023.
5. Schbley, J., Aburto, J.M., Kashnitsky, I. et al. Life expectancy changes since COVID-19. Nat Hum Behav 6, 1649-1659 (2022).
   https://doi.org/lC L038/s41562-022-0145: 3.
6. Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2023. Cause of Death 2022. Published online at
   https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health/causes-death/causes-death-australia/latest-release . Viewed 15 December 2023.
7. Gopinath, G., 2022. A Disrupted Global Recovery. Published online at IMF Blog.
   https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2022/01/25/blog-a-disrupted-global-recovery. Viewed 15 Dec 2023.
8. Heath, K., Altermatt, A., Saich, F., Pedrana, A., Fletcher-Lartey, S., Bowring, A.L., Stoove, M., Danchin, M., Kaufman, J.,
   Gibney, K.B., Hellard, M., 2022. Intent to Be Vaccinated against COVID-19 in Victoria, Australia. Vaccines 10.
   https://doi.org/10.3390/vaccinesl0020209
9. Altermatt, A., Heath, K., Saich, F., Lee Wilkinson, A., Scott, N., Sacks-Davis, R., Young, K., Stoove, M., Gibney, K.B., Hellard,
   M., 2023a. Estimating the proportion of Victorians infected with COVID-19 during the Omicron BA.l epidemic wave of
   January 2022 in Australia. Aust. N. Z. J. Public Health 47, 100007. https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.anzjph.2022.100007
10. Hellard M, Motorniak D, Tse WC, Saich F, Stoove M. Engaging with communities to encourage adoption of a harm
   reduction approach to COVID-19. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2023 Apr;47(2):100022. doi: 10.1016/j.anzjph.2023.100022.
   Epub 2023 Mar 22. PMID: 36963122; PMCID: PMC10031063.
11. Tse, W.C., Altermatt, A., Saich, F., Wilkinson, A.L., Heath, K., Young, K., Pedrana, A., Hill, S., Gibbs, L, Stoove, M., Gibney,
   K.B., Hellard, M., 2023.1 know what you did last summer: a cross-sectional study of personal COVID-19 risk reduction
   strategies used by Victorian adults, December 2021-January 2022. Aust. N. Z. J. Public Health 47,100068.
   https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.anzjph.2023.100068
12. Delport, D., Sacks-Davis, R., Abeysuriya, R.G., Hellard, M., Scott, N., 2023. Lives saved by public health restrictions over the
   Victorian COVID-19 Delta variant epidemic wave, Aug-Nov 2021. Epidemics 44, 100702.
   https://doi.Org/10.1016/j.epidem.2023.100702
13. Altermatt, A., Wilkinson, A.L., Heath, K., Nguyen, T., Thomas, A.J., Young, K., Ke, T., Zhang, Y., Gibbs, L, Pedrana, A., Lusher,
   D., Stoove, M., Gibney, K., Hellard, M., 2023b. The long and the short of it: long COVID burden and impact in a cohort with
   past COVID-19 infection. 3rd Australasian COVID-19 Conference. Brisbane, Australia.
14. Saich, F., Heath, K., Altermatt, A., Menon, V., Munari, S., Merner, B., Hill, S., Shearer, F., Gibbs, L, Coelho, A., Fletcher-
   Lartey, S., Stoove, M., Gibney, K., Hellard, M., 2021. The Optimise Study: Impacts of the COVID-19 response on culturally
   and linguistically diverse communities. Melbourne, Australia.
15. Merner, B., Hill, S., Meagher, N., Fletcher-Lartey, S., Abbott, S., Kapoor, G., Karimi, M.D., Rios, L, Semaan, N., Wamawungo,
   D., Saich, F., Coelho, A., Shearer, F., Gibbs, L, Hellard, M., Gibney, K., 2021. Optimise Study: Community Engagement Group
   for Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Communities. Melbourne, Australia.
16. Gibbs, L., Thomas, A.J., Coelho, A., Al-Qassas, A., Block, K., Meagher, N., Eisa, L, Fletcher-Lartey, S., Ke, T., Kerr, P., Kwong,
   E.J.L., MacDougall, C., Malith, D., Marinkovic Chavez, K., Osborne, D., Price, D.J., Shearer, F., Stoove, M., Young, K., Zhang,
   Y., Gibney, K.B., Hellard, M., 2023. Inclusion of Cultural and Linguistic Diversity in COVID-19 Public Health Research:
   Research Design Adaptations to Seek Different Perspectives in Victoria, Australia. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 20.
   https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph20032320
17. Nguyen, T., Thomas, A.J., Kerr, P., Stewart, A.C., Wilkinson, A.L., Nguyen, L, Altermatt, A., Young, K., Heath, K., Bowring, A.,
   Fletcher-Lartey, S., Lusher, D., Hill, S., Pedrana, A., Stoove, M., Gibney, K., Hellard, M., 2023. Recruiting and retaining
   community-based participants in a COVID-19 longitudinal cohort and social networks study: lessons from Victoria,
   Australia. BMC Med. Res. Methodol. 23, 54.




Burnet Institute: Commonwealth COVID-19 Response Inquiry | 13 December 2023                                                   Page 4
AUSTRALIA


85 Commercial Road
Melbourne, Victoria, 3004
t + 61 3 9282 2111
e

OVERSEAS                                 ©    burnet.edu.au/support-us

                                         © /b urnetinstitute
We have offices or representatives in
Australia, Papua New Guinea                  @Burnetlnstitute
and Myanmar, and also contribute to
activities in other Asian, Pacific and   in) Burnet Institute
African countries.

For more information, contact us
                        r call
                                                                         Burnet
                                                                         reach for the many
Burnet Institute: Commonwealth COVID-19 Response Inquiry | 13 December 2023   Page 6
