These are a few thoughts as a submission to Covid 19 Response enquiry.

      1) Firstly no enquiry is going to coverthetruth behind these called Covid 19 pandemic
         unless it is a full Royal Commission.
      2) Australia prides itself as a global leader in support of human rights, prevention of
         discrimination, yet during the Covid 19 outbreak we saw an unprecedented number of
         laws broken by governments and their representatives through out Australia a few cases
         are given below.
      3) Mandates of federal and state workers to be required to take experimental medical drugs
         is illegal under Australian constitution, Nuremberg code and Universal declaration of
         Human Rights


Nuremberg Code of 1947: The right to avoid the imposition of human experimentation is
fundamentally rooted in the Nuremberg Code of 1947. has been ratified by the 1964 Declaration
of Helsinki and further codified in the US. Code of Federal Regulations. In addition to the US
regarding itself as bound by these provisions, these principles were adopted by the FDA in its
regulations requiring the informed consent of human subjects for medical research. It is unlawful
to conduct medical research even in the case of an emergency unless steps are taken to secure,
informed consent of all participants.

Article 6, section 3: In no case should a collective community agreement or the consent of a
community leader or other authority substitute for an individual’s informed consent. Clearly,
mandatory Covid-19 vaccinations fail this test on multiple fronts.

         Under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR):

  •      “Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without
         distinction of any kind including no arbitrary detention.” (Article 9)


  •      “No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or
         correspondence.” (Article 12)

  •      “Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each
         state, and Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to
         his country.” (Article 13)

  •      “Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to
         hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas
         through any media and regardless of frontiers.” (Article 19)


  •        “Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assemblyand association.”(Article 20)

  •        “The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government.”(Article 21)

  •        “Everyone has the right to work.” (Article 23)

  •        “Everyone has the right to education.” (Article 26)

  •      “Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set
         forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.” (Article 28)
       “Nothing in the Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person
       any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of
       the rights and freedoms set forth herein.” (Article 30)

These UDHR stipulations are the basis of the modern concept of individual sovereignty, and the
relationship between authorities and their populations. Considered the highest codification of the
rights and freedoms of individuals in the 20th century.


       4)         Why were Australian States allowed to create their own rules when constitution says

 Inconsistency of laws: “When a law of a State is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth, the
latter shall prevail, and the former shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be invalid.”

So for a so called national emergency why were all states allowed to act differently, creating huge
issues at borders all at significant expense that achieved nothing.

West Australia isolated from the rest of Australia and world yet significant outbreaks of Covid
occurred. Indicating either the isolation or the Covid injections did not work.

       5)         Role of agencies

The role of TGA as a regulatory authority has to be questioned, Covid injections were approved
practically overnight yet the supporting documentation for these injections is 100’s of thousands of
pages of information. Was the TGA acting as a regulator for the people or a promotor for the
Pharmaceutical companies.

        6) Why were expensive unproven experimental Covid injections given as only solution
when other proven inexpensive medications were not allowed. In the case of Ivermectin it was
effectively banned in Australia yet countries that allowed wide spread use of Ivermectin did not
experience the problems associated with wide spread Covid injection usage.

        7) Why were medical doctors deregistered when they diagnosed a covid injection was not
in patients best health interests. Doctors are highly trained individuals who have a duty of care to
their patients to provide what is best on an individual basis.

        8) Why are we now witnessing greater than 10% increase in all cause mortality since roll
out of Covid injections, yet no investigation is taking place. At start of Covid out break one covid
death was national news now we have thousands of extra deaths in community but this is being
ignored by government & Media

Much more could be questioned but it is probably outside your terms of reference.
