                                            National
                                            Foundation for
                                            Australian
                            O               Women
                                            REALWOMEN. VISIONARY LEADERSHIP




                                            nfaw.org


                     Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet



                             Improving future preparedness:
                  Inquiry into the response to the Covid-19 pandemic

                                        18 December 2023



Prepared by:
Dr Kathy MacDermott
Frances Davies
Prof Helen Hodgson



Authorisation
This submission has been authorised by the NFAW Board

Professor Helen Hodgson
Chair, Social Policy Committee,
National Foundation for Australian Women



Advisor, Social Policy Committee
National Foundation for Australian Women



National Foundation for Australian Women

Inquiries about this submission should be directed to Helen Hodgson at
Improving future preparedness: Inquiry into the response to the Covid-
                           19 pandemic

This submission is being made by the National Foundation for Australian Women (NFAW).

NFAW is dedicated to promoting and protecting the interests of Australian women, including
intellectual, cultural, political, social, economic, legal, industrial and domestic spheres, and ensuring
that the aims and ideals of the women's movement and its collective wisdom are handed on to new
generations of women. NFAW is a feminist organisation, independent of party politics and working
in partnership with other women's organisations.

Improving decision-making around future pandemics requires an understanding of the
decision-making that underpinned Australia's COVID-19 response - not only how decisions were
made, but also by whom and on what basis. This includes the high-level decisions to focus stimulus
on male-dominated occupations, and to exclude higher education and, later, childcare from
JobKeeper, and at a more operational level, decisions relating to the procurement of vaccines and
anti-virals, the design and conduct of vaccination campaigns and access to and pricing of pharmacy
goods such as RATs and hand sanitiser.

As we note below, non-medical decision-making in relation to the COVID pandemic was
characteristically conducted behind the screen of Cabinet confidentiality. Accordingly, our
submission focuses what can be learned from the policies themselves and from public
documentation available to us. We also reflect on the data and observations made at the time in
our submission to Senate Select Committee on COVID-19's Inquiry into the Australian Government's
response to the COVID-19 pandemic (attached) and on analysis undertaken for the 2020-21 and
2021-22 Gender Lens on the Budget.
In our current submission we will address the following subset of the Panel's Terms of Reference:

     1.   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government
     4.         Support for industry and businesses
     5.   Financial support for individuals (including income support payments and early access to
          superannuation).
     6.   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
          (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
          with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
          linguistically diverse communities).
Recommendations

    1.   NFAW recommends that the Panel lay the groundwork for pandemic governance
         arrangements that are not makeshift and do not rely on a metaphor to sustain dubious
         executive practices or public support. If government is to claim exceptional executive
         power, that power should be balanced by clearly understood lines of responsibility and
         accountability and informed by adequate consultation with civil society. Any such
         arrangements should also be the agreed outcome of prior expert deliberation and scrutiny.

    2.   The current Government has progressively introduced a suite of legislative reforms aimed at
         the long term viability of the Care sector including a draft strategic plan for the Care and
         Support Economy. We recommend that the Panel call for measures to integrate the sectoral
         governance function proposed in the draft national strategy with any forthcoming model for
         governance during a pandemic.

   3.    We recommend that any programs rolled out to provide support on the basis of estimated
         business outcomes are designed to compare estimated with actual outcomes, with a claw­
         back mechanism included where a business did not in fact meet the thresholds to require
         support.

   4.        We recommend that the Objectives of Superannuation be legislated.

   5.    We recommend that if an event arises that is expected to result in a large number of
         applications to withdraw superannuation on the basis of hardship, a streamlined process be
         set up to verify eligibility rather than relying on self-certification.

   6.    We recommend that the Panel call for the integration of established measures for the
         consultation of women in any forthcoming model for governance during a pandemic.

Discussion
    1.   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,

In our May 2020 submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 we emphasised the
increasing mismatch between the populations most deeply affected by COVID and those targeted by
the decision-making of the Commonwealth government.

By that time there was a growing body of evidence that women were bearing the brunt of the
COVID-19 pandemic: as workers in the frontline health and aged care industries, as workers in
service industries most exposed to lockdown, as the main carers for children when schools and child
care were closed down, as those with the smallest superannuation accounts to be raided, and as
those bearing the rise in domestic violence. Social services were being put under heavy pressure
from the virus and most social service providers are women: social workers, mental health support
workers, frontline domestic and family violence workers, child support workers.

Our attached submission provided the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 with early data in all
these areas and the Panel will be aware that subsequent data has only served to confirm these
trends.

Nevertheless - despite women and female-dominated industry sectors bearing the brunt of the
pandemic - men and male-dominated sectors were progressively targeted for industry and
individual government support. As outlined below, stimulus funding was increasingly focused on
male dominated groups through JobMaker, through changes to JobSeeker and JobKeeper, and
through the revival of pre-COVID tax cut proposals in 2020-2021 Budget.

NFAW is not able to extend the Panel's understanding of how these decisions were taken, by whom
and on what basis. The usual and lines of government responsibility and accountability, already
attenuated by current practice, were suspended in autumn 2020 as Australia went onto a 'war'
footing against the pandemic. The deployment of the war metaphor was common in a number of
countries and there are a surprising number of studies examining its use and impact. As Hand
                  | it was increasingly deployed to justify 'exceptionalism', which meant, inter alia,
that the usual governance arrangements were to be suspended. This was justified because politics as
usual was also meant to be suspended aside in favour of a united effort: as the Prime Minister
announced, repeatedly, that 'we are in a war against this virus and all Australians are enlisted to do
the right thing.'

In war everyone pulls together in the direction indicated by the executive:

        Today we act to protect our nation's sovereignty. When Australian lives and livelihoods are
        threatened, when they are under attack, our nation's sovereignty is put at risk and we must
        respond. As a Government, as a Parliament, as a nation, together.
        ... And above all, our sovereignty is sustained by what we believe as Australians, what we
        value, and hold most dear, our principles, our way of doing things. We will never surrender
        this. So make no mistake, today is not about ideologies. We checked those at the d or.
        Today is about defending and protecting Australia's national sovereignty. It will be a fight.
        It will be a fight we will win. But it won't be a fight without costs, or without loss.
        Protecting our sovereignty has always come at a great cost, regardless of what form that
        threat takes. And today will be no different.
        So today, we will agree to pay that price. (Prime Ministerial Statement, 8 April 2020
        https://www.ttf.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/099X1721.pdf, our emphasis)

Following the early April 2020 employer/union/government roundtables that resulted in JobKeeper
funding ("There are no blue teams or red teams. There are no more unions or bosses. There are just
Australians now; that's all that matters"), government decision-making progressively retreated to
the bunker. The usual governance arrangements remained suspended, but COVID-related
consultation dried up, community input was replaced by the NCCC and hand-picked prime
ministerial advisers and cabinet-in-confidence decision-making, and executive power was centralised
in the hands of ministers—six of whom were the Prime Minister.

    •   The Prime Minister appointed himself to head five portfolios without advising relevant
        Ministers, much less the general public (Health (14 March 2020); Finance (30 March 2020);
        Industry, Science, Energy and Resources (15 April 2021); and (together) Home Affairs and
        Treasury (6 May 2021)). This violated no procedural rules only because it did not occur to
        rule-makers that such a rule should be necessary. Ministerial appointments are normally
        notified to parliament and formally published so members of the public - not to mention
        ministers -- can know who is entitled to exercise particular powers.

    •   Appointments to the National COVID Coordination Commission (NCCC), which advised on
        both immediate and long term COVID responses, were made directly by the Prime Minister
        without Cabinet consideration and without a conventional governance framework.
        Community representatives were excluded largely in favour of hand-picked men from the
        resources industry.
    •   The deliberations of the NCCC were declared Cabinet-in Confidence. The deliberations of
        the Commonwealth-State decision-making group (known as 'Morrison's War Cabinet') were
        also declared Cabinet-in Confidence on the ground that the body was called National
        Cabinet.

    •   Legislation establishing JobKeeper -- an initiative of the early, pre-NCCC, more consultative
        phase of COVID decision-making -- was         ertheless c   ted to enable the Treasurer and by
        delegation, the Commissioner of Taxation (both part of the executive branch of government)
        to make the rules necessary or convenient for giving effect to the Act. The matters in respect
        of which the rules could make provision were framed broadly and were justified in terms of
        the need for flexibility and responsiveness in the environment of uncertainty created by the
        pandemic and to allow the rules to be modified and updated as circumstances required.

There has been debate as to the legality of many of these practices. Without the justification of the
war metaphor many of them fall at least into the provenance of grey corruption -- that is, they
would fall outside the rules of good governance if someone had thought it was necessary to draft
rules to prevent such conduct.

The potency of the war metaphor, and of the 'exceptional' governance arrangements that it was
used to normalise, progressively wore off as events made it clear that ideology had not in fact been
left at the door where executive decision-making took place. JobKeeper was used to drive the
Government's longstanding deregulation agenda in the interests of flexibility. The 2020 Budget
showed that government persisted in its longstanding predisposition to favour hard infrastructure
over social infrastructure, despite the talk of heroic frontline services (see ToR 4 below). Politics
followed ideology into the room as egregious problems with vaccine/mask/test kit procurement and
roll-out finally resulted in the Prime Minister turning on his 'war Cabinet' and invoking the rhetoric
of the well-worn Commonwealth-state blame game.

NFAW recommends that the Panel lay the groundwork for pandemic governance arrangements
that are not makeshift and do not rely on a metaphor to sustain dubious executive practices or
public support. If government is to claim exceptional power, that power should be balanced by
clearly understood lines of responsibility and accountability and informed by adequate
consultation with civil society. Any such arrangements should also be the agreed outcome of prior
expert deliberation and scrutiny.


4.       Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport
issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).

The Health Care and Social Assistance industry is the largest industry by employment in Australia,
taking in sectors such as hospitals, GPs and aged and childcare. In 2020 it accounted for 12.6 per
cent of Australia's working population, and was 77.9% female. There was also broad agreement that
car             e bru : of cc id. NFAW and other feminist analysts were accordingly dismayed to
find that JobMaker, the centrepiece of the 2020-21 Budget, was comprehensively skewed to favour
men's employment.


The JobMaker Plan was composed of measures including job credits, industry stimulus packages,
infrastructure investment, tax write-offs and skills development. It targeted male-dominated
industries: construction (87.9 per cent male); manufacturing (72.9 per cent male); electricity, gas,
water and waste (74.4 per cent male)), and sectors typically investing in big machines - construction
(again), mining (84.1 per cent male) and agriculture (70.1 per cent male) (see GL 2020-21) Taxation -
Business Overview section).
The budget plan for female-dominated healthcare and essential service industries was to "continue
to guarantee the essential services Australians rely on. Without increasing taxes".
The skewing of the 2020-21 budget towards hard rather than social infrastructure was an early
indication that - notwithstanding all pulling together and the war metaphors -- ideology had not
been left outside the door at ERC. The government had long decided to leave social infrastructure as
a funding problem for the next government, and did, treating women as self-sacrificing ' le >e:
war' and acknowledging 'personal sacrifice', but remaining firmly focused only on the psychic
rewards of women's care work. The Aged Care Royal Commission's call for equal pay in the aged
care sector was ignored. In the following Budget critical labour force issues were met with only band
aid solutions (such as one-off ad campaigns or sign-on bonuses and scholarships for eligible
registered nurses (Gender Lens on the 2021-22 Budget, Social Infrastructure).

Following the change of Government in 2022, there has been some policy movement in the care
sector aimed addressing future labour force demand. The Government has introduced a suite of
legislative and funding reforms reflecting the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Aged
Care, provided some wage supplementation to address equal pay (still in the process of being
settled) and more broadly released a draft national strategy for the Care and Support Economy. As
part of the priority measures for the strategy the draft plan proposes by June 2024 (p. 52):

        the establishment of a governance function to coordinate workforce planning across the
        care and support economy. This includes leveraging the work of the relevant Jobs and Skills
        Council; developing and overseeing a data strategy; identifying workforce gaps and work
        across governments to develop targeted policy responses; monitoring and evaluating
        actions; and disseminating ongoing learnings, (p. 22)

While most welcome, these are largely works in progress and far from entrenched, much less
reviewed and evaluated. We recommend that the Panel call for measures to integrate the sectoral
governance function proposed in the draft national strategy with any forthcoming model for
governance during a pandemic.

Jobkeeper was designed to support business to maintain jobs for employees, including small
business owners. The business received the payments as a subsidy to maintain wages at the
minimum required level, with eligibility based on estimated changes in turnover. A number of
design flaws in JobKeeper have been identified and reviewed in the Independent Evaluation of the
Jobkeeper Payment. While the Report noted the stability provided by JobKeeper in keeping business
afloat and supporting workers, the processes adopted resulted in some employers being
overcompensated, with a lack of transparency over the out any mechanism to clawback excess
payments, consistent with our earlier comments.

We recommend that any programs rolled out to provide support on the basis of estimated
business outcomes are designed to compare estimated with actual outcomes, with a claw-back
mechanism included where a business did not in fact meet the thresholds to require support.

5.      Financial support for individuals (including income support payments and presumably super).

JobKeeper

The original design of JobKeeper did not distinguish between payments made to full-time workers
and those made to part-time workers. Some commentators regarded this as unfair to those who
held full-time positions and others described it as a stimulus measure for the lowest paid. The July
2020 Economic and Fiscal Update introduced differential JobKeeper payments for full-and part-time
workers, reducing costs and making way for a refocus on range of stimulus measures targeting high
paid men and male dominated industries. Twice as many women as men were affected by the
JobKeeper cuts for part-timers. The payment fell again in December and disappeared in March.

JobKeeper 2 continued to exclude support for people working in female dominated industries
(universities and childcare) and for casuals not classed as regular and systematic - around 950,000 of
them—who also make up a female dominated group. Those over 35 in that group - mainly women -­
were excluded from JobMaker payments as will those unable to work 20 or more hours a week
because of childcare costs (Gender Lens on the 2020-21 Budget, Jobkeeper).

We note that the Independent Evaluation of the Jobkeeper Payment considered that overall the
scheme provided important support, but that there were a number of design flaws that should have
been addressed. We have noted that a number of the findings of the report are consistent with our
analysis, including:
    -         Ensuring that the policy design was more easily adapted to changing circumstances;
    -         Earlier implementation;
    -         Structuring the payment as a tiered payment rather than a flat amount;
    -         Eligibility requirements were too narrow, as discussed above; and
    -         Enhanced transparency of data and policy outcomes.

JobSeeker

The pre- COVID-19 social security system would not have been able to adequately respond to the
huge negative economic shock generated by COVID and the associated job losses. As a result,
Australian Government acted swiftly to provide additional financial assistance to people receiving
various working-age payment types in response to the influx of new applicants. Specifically, the
Australian Government introduced a temporary $550 per fortnight Coronavirus Supplement from Tl
April 2020 for a period of six months to increase nine social security payments: JobSeeker Payment
(formerly the Newstart Allowance), Partner Allowance, Widow Allowance, Youth Allowance,
Austudy, ABSTUDY, Parenting Payment, Farm Household Allowance and Special Benefit.

For many recipients, particularly those receiving the JobSeeker Payment, which included a significant
proportion of single parents whose youngest child was older than 8 years, students and people with
health impediments, this effectively doubled their income during the COVID lockdowns. The
Supplement was reduced by $300 to a rate of $250 per fortnight from 25 September to 31
December 2020 (Department of Social Services, 2021), and ceased on 1 April 2021.

The Coronavirus Supplement and the relaxation of mutual obligations due to the pandemic
created an adequate and supportive social safety net. Research indicated that physical and
mental health improved, time spent in studies and engaging with paid employment increased,
and people were able to envision and plan for their long-term financial security.

While the Supplement was an effective response to COVID in Australia, similar to the overall
response, it didn't address the differential impact on women. Social security is a key driver of
gender inequality. The system settings fail to account for women's differential employment
pathways compared to men, their disproportionate burden of unpaid caring work, the
gendered experience of domestic violence, and the ways that older women in particular are
discriminated in employment.

However, importantly the response also served as an important experiment in addressing
existing flaws in social security and employment services. The response lifted many people,
especially sole parents, out of poverty. Employment outcomes were positive without the
imposition of the punitive compliance mutual obligation system. The recent Budget, the review
of Workforce Australia, and the governments White Paper on Jobs and Opportunities flag
recent initiatives and indicate future directions which could build on lessons from the COVID
response.

Australia needs to bring a strong intersectional lens to social security and welfare systems and
policy, that enables government to better understand the varied and compounding social,
cultural and economic factors that create discrimination and disadvantage. It is a fundamental
element to achieving greater gender equality and women's empowerment as well as reducing
other inequalities.

Early Access to Superannuation

The changes to allow early access to superannuation enabled a person who anticipated being in
financial distress to access their superannuation without needing to go through the existing hardship
provisions. Access was allowed in two tranches of $10,000 between March and June 2020 and July
to December 2020. The Australian Taxation Office collected and release data in a timely way in
respect of the number and outcome of superannuation applications.

The decision to allow early release to superannuation was consistent with the policy view taken by
the Government at the time that superannuation is "your money". This disregarded the longer term
policy underlying the superannuation system, and highlights the need for the objectives of
superannuation to be enshrined in legislation, as currently proposed in the Superannuation
(Objective) Bill 2023.

We recommend that the Objectives of Superannuation be legislated.

We acknowledge that there was an expectation that some individuals would experience financial
hardship that would not be alleviated by the JobKeeper and the JobSeeker measures, but early
access to superannuation was too broad in its scope. Application was self-assessed, which reduced
barriers enabling applications from persons who may have met the criteria but were not
experiencing financial disadvantage, for example where the other measures were sufficient. ABS
d       om Dec       0 shows that 30.9% was spent on mortgages or rents; 29.2% on other household
bills; 14.2% on other debts. Notably 7.8% was added to savings, and 6.7% was spent on motor
vehicles. It is not known how much of the contribution to mortgages was used for additional
payments compared to keeping up with normal payments, but we do know that the recent cycle of
RBA interest rate increases was increased as many mortgage holders had made additional payments
in offset or redraw facilities. The Federal Government passed legislation to enable the recontribution
of amounts withdrawn from superannuation, but the extent of the uptake is not known.

We are also concerned about the number of superannuation account holders who withdrew all of
their superannuation. Analysis of APRA data (ASFA, 2022) showed that many low account balance
holder withdrew all of their superannuation, and that this disproportionately affected women, single
parents and the unemployed. This will exacerbate the financial disadvantage experienced by these
groups at retirement.

We recommend that if an event arises that is expected result in a large number of applications to
withdraw superannuation on the basis of hardship, a streamlined process be set up to verify
eligibility rather than relying on self-certification.
7. Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First
Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

We referred under ToR 1 to the need for governance arrangements that enabled decision-making to
reflect mature consultative arrangements and evidence-based decision-making.
We are encouraged by recent developments at the Commonwealth level that could embed the
interests of women in Government decision-making. These include:
• a National Strategy to Achieve Gender Equality to elevate and prioritise actions to achieve
     gender equality. To be released early in 2024, the National Strategy will reflect the advice of a
     Women's Economic Equality Taskforce. One of the        or     idatk      ft      rsl or was that
     government 'establish and resource an independent national women's economic equality
     advisory body to ... work collaboratively with other gender equality advisory bodies (such as in
     health and violence prevention), provide independent advice to the government on policy
     priorities and progress women's economic equality over a 10-year horizon';

•   strengthening gender responsive budgeting. Australian Government Departments are now
     required to undertake gender analysis for all New Policy Proposals (NPPs) and Cabinet
     Submissions. NPPs will need to include a Gender Impact Assessment if: the proposal has a
     significant positive or negative impact on gender equality; the proposal targets cohorts of
     people who can be typically disadvantaged; the proposal relates to a gender segregated
     industry; the proposal establishes a National Partnership Agreement (or like agreement); and
     the total value of the proposal is $250 million or more over the forward estimates;

•   improving the use of the data that's currently available, collecting new data where needed and
     building the right tools to present an accurate and nuanced understanding of the dimensions of
     gendered economic inequality in Australia and the needs of women experiencing disadvantage.
     According to the 2023-24 Women's Budget Statement, this includes using its Gender Impact
     Assessment template to set an expectation of evidence-based policy development and investing
     in the data capabilities of the APS to build, collect and use gender-disaggregated data sets. The
     ABS has also convened a Gender Data Steering Group whose role is to maximise the impact of
     the government's major data holdings as an evidence base for gender equality policy, the 2023­
     24 Women's Budget Statement reports specific data gathering and sharing initiatives in relation
     to the labour force, health, violence and First Nations the National Plan for Family Safety.

these measures are largely works in progress and far from entrenched, much less reviewed and
evaluated. The same observation applies to analogous and overlapping measures at state level.
Nevertheless, taken together, they are capable over time of delivering a mature, informed and
authoritative women's voice that could be integrated into consultative arrangements for a
governance model designed to pandemic response.
We recommend that the Panel call for the integration of established measures for the consultation
of women in any forthcoming model for governance during a pandemic.

We recognise that while a number of the proposed datasets incorporate data items relating to
groups of women with distinct experiences relating to their cultural background, sexuality, age or
location, any pandemic governance model should incorporate consultation arrangements addressing
these populations directly. The loss of the Indigenous Voice proposal is particularly distressing in this
respect.
