                                                                    December 15th, 2023
                                                                                Australia


To: The Inquiry to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response (the Inquiry)

From:

I'm now           but have been working through a difficult period of 3 and a half years as a
                                                       all but a handful of days working from
home in isolation from colleagues, customers, friends, and above all from family.

The first point to make as part of this submission, is that the unprecedented nature of the
response and the enormity of the consequences resulting from Government decisions and
actions, instead of an Inquiry, there should have been a Royal Commission setup to thoroughly
investigate both the appropriateness of the response and the long reaching impacts of the
same. My recollection is that it has indeed been a promise of the opposition during the 2022
election campaign. Unfortunately, the current Government seems to have lost the edge and
has succumb to (international) pressures to reiterate the established narrative and avoid the
real analyses of the Response.

The second point to make is that the declaration of a "pandemic" by the WHO came after the
relevant definition had been changed in February 2020 and based on a small number of "cases"
around the world. This declaration, combined with a well coordinated media campaign
(thoroughly rehearsed at the Event 201) then resulted in a world wide induced fear and
consequently rushed decisions at various levels of the society and all levels of Government.

Even though the early analysis had shown that the "Novel" SARS Corona Virus had not been
more deadly that the normal seasonal flue (please refer to works of renowned Stanford
University scientists Prof.                                                 PhD, as
well as the Nobel Prise Laureat^^^^^^^l PhD), and that some early treatments of the
disease using safe and recognised drugs (administered billions of times) as off label
applications had been showing promising results (including a published research form Monash
University) and even given to president Donald Trump in the fall of 2020 during the USA
presidential campaign, had been not only deliberately ignored, but also actively censored by
the TGA as of September 2021.

Another general point to make is that the TGA as a key governmental tool for regulating the
approval and consequential administration of therapeutic products has miserably let
Australian people down (and that is not only because of blocking afore mentioned early
treatment) by allowing poorly tested GMO products to be introduced and kept in use this date.
The Government should use the opportunity arising from the Inquiry to do a comprehensive
overhaul of the role and funding of the TGA. It is difficult not to come to a conclusion that a
series conflict of interest might be a main cause of their inadequate response to the situation
considering that up to 96% of their funding comes from pharmaceutic companies. It is simply
unacceptable that TGA has neither ever performed their own testing of the COVID-19
injections, nor has put mechanisms in place to monitor the quality of the products and their
consistency with what the manufactures had been alleging. As an illustration of poor standards
endorsed by TGA we can refer to documents submitted as part of Fol requests. For example,
inferring that the test results on 3 mice can be used to justify the use of the said products on
people, is so appalling:




Now, a quick address to the individual Terms of Reference.

Governance...

It was only with the emergence of the COVID situation that many Australians had realised that
each State had the right to unilaterally decide their own measures (e.g. border closures,
lockdowns, movement restrictions, travel restrictions, business restrictions, etc.) and it was a
great disappointment to see that Australia is not one.

National Cabinet appeared to be a secretive organisation without a clear mandate and with
no transparency. As part of the Inquiry, one should expect that this form of the Government
will be abolished during peace times and as a gesture of good will minutes of those meeting
be released to the public.

The COVID situation also exposed lack of integrity and accountability at all levels, and
especially that of the Prime Minister who not only deceived his cabinet, colleagues and the
whole nation, but also usurped the power.

Premiers, CMOs and other officials were competing in fear mongering and engaging in direct
threats to the public, at the same time abusing their power by taking dictatorial stand.

As an illustration of that abuse of the power and unacceptable behaviour, lets refer to the




... health response measures...

As indicated above, the measures adopted were inadequate, for example:
   a)       no early treatment protocols;
    b)      jab mandates without having a full understanding of the consequences;
   c)    panicking at all levels of the medical establishment, to the extent of a total inhibition
         in many cases.

... health supports forpeople impacted by COVID-19...

Due to tyrannic measures of curfews, lockdowns, school and business closures, mass formation
of the COVID disciples, etc. not only did orders of magnitude more harm to individuals and
the whole society than the disease itself has been done, but it created a divisive environment
and planted the seeds of strong distrust in Government and its institutions, let alone the
medical establishment.

Internationalpolicies...

Closures of international travel and leaving Australians stranded overseas for months if not
years for a gross overreach. Even in war situations, one would hope the Government would do
everything in their power to bring people home.

In regards to securing vaccine supplies, not only that TGA failed to meet the expected
standards, but without a full transparency of these endeavours and visibility of actual terms of
conditions it is impossible to form a position. Also, a proper cost benefit analysis should be
performed into indebting the country to the tune of more than 1B AUD in the process.

Support for industry and businesses...

It was an unprecedented situation that the whole country was blocked do a standstill for such
an extended period of time without a proper cost benefit analysis. The measures taken were
not only inappropriate, but utterly devastating to most business and the economy at large. It
is enough to take a stroll trough our min streets of our cities to realise a very high tall induced
by the COVID measures.

Community supports...

There is no great punishment than to lock children at home isolated from family, friends,
school, taking away their normal daily joy, play and happiness. By resorting to those draconian
measures, the Government will be responsible to deficiencies in social development, learning,
general communication skills, etc.

For these measures and their profound consequences, the Government should take a full
accountability. The real leadership comprises of projecting optimism, hope and trust in the
future, rather than fear mongering and removing freedoms.

Mechanisms to better target future responses...

Any future response by the Government to a similar situation must be much more careful and
commensurate to the risks without being subjected to foreign pressures (including the
industrial complex), conflicts of interest and based on the cost benefit analysis. Instead of a
cancel culture and censorship, a proper scientific debate must be allowed and real expertise
sought outside own bureaucrats and the Government apparatus.
