          COMMONWEALTH
  GOVERNMENT COVID-
  19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
            SUBMISSION OF THE MEDIA, ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS ALLIANCE

                                               14/02/2024




                                                                    Phone          Web

PO Box, 723 Strawberry Hills NSW 2012                               1300 656 513   MEAA.org

                                  BUILT ON INTEGRITY, POWERED BY CREATIVITY

                                              ABN. 84 054 775 598
Introduction
MEAA welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to this inquiry. This submission relates to the
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry terms of reference, in particular, financial
support for individuals (including income support payments).

MEAA is the largest and most established union and industry advocate for workers in the creative
and cultural industries, with a history going back more than 110 years. This submission is directed at
the arts, entertainment and media sectors, where MEAA has more than 16,000 members. Our
members in these industry areas include people working in television, radio, theatre, film,
entertainment venues, sporting stadia, journalists, actors, dancers, sportspeople, cartoonists,
photographers, musicians, orchestral and opera performers as well as people working in public
relations, advertising, book publishing and website production.

The arts, entertainment and media sectors are significant generators of economic activity and
employment. For example, the arts and entertainment sectors employ approximately 230,000
people and contribute an estimated $17 billion in value added (GDP).1 The sector is 'jobs-rich': for
every $1 million in turnover six jobs are created.2 In addition to these significant economic benefits,
the arts, entertainment and media sectors are essential for the public good. Public interest
journalism, for example, helps to expose corruption, uphold transparency of government, inform the
public, and contribute to public debate.3

Despite the critical role that media, arts and culture play in Australia's economy and society, they still
suffer from systemic under-recognition. Over the past four decades, political commitment to media,
arts and culture has been unpredictable, inconsistent, and often insufficient.4 For example, between
2007-08 to 2017-18 the Federal Government's per capita investment in arts and culture declined by
nearly 19%.5 Historical cuts to public broadcasters have also forced them to wind back their reach
and scope.

Market factors have also undermined conditions for the sector. The collapse of the commercial
business model for media, for example, resulted in widespread job losses. In total, between 2006
and 2016, the number of Australians working in journalism-related occupations fell by 9%. The
ramifications were worse for traditional print media, where the number of journalists fell by 20%
between 2014 and 2018.6




1 As of 2018-19. Pennington and Eltham (2021) Creativity in Crisis, p 6,
https://futurework.org.au/report/creativity-in-crisis-rebooting-australias-arts-and-entertainment-sector-after-
covid/
2 See above, p 13
3 Sweet et al (2020) 'Converging crises: public interest journalism, the pandemic and public health', Public
Health Research and Practice, p 1, https://www.phrp.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/PHRP3042029.pdf
4 Pennington and Eltham (2021) Creativity in Crisis, p 16, https://futurework.org.au/report/creativity-in-crisis-
rebooting-australias-arts-and-entertainment-sector-after-covid/
5 A New Approach (2019) The big picture: public expenditure on artistic, cultural and creative activity in
Australia, p 16, https://newapproach.org.au/insight-reports/the-big-picture-public-expenditure-on-artistic-
cultural-and-creative-activity-in-australia/
6 Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (2019) Digital Platforms Inguiry, p 18,
https://www.accc.gov.au/system/files/Digital%20platforms%20inquiry%20-%20final%20report.pdf


Submission of the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance                                                   PAGE 2
Funding challenges in the sector have led to a proliferation of insecure and low-paid work, including
freelance, contract, casual and gig work. This situation left workers especially vulnerable to the
impacts of COVID-19, which were further exacerbated by restrictions to JobKeeper, which left many
workers in these industries impoverished and out of work.


Impact of COVID-19
The pandemic devastated Australia's arts and entertainment sectors. The arts and entertainment
industry was, of necessity, one of the very first to cease normal operations once the threat of the
pandemic was realised and social distancing measures were put in place. The impact was profound
and debilitating. Live entertainment venues closed; TV and film productions were shut down. Allied
workplaces, from ticket-sellers to post-production facilities had no work. In the case of the
entertainment sector output in terms of hours worked was virtually frozen as contracts were
cancelled and new work opportunities disappeared.

ABS labour force figures revealed the extent of the impact. From February 2020 to May 2020, total
Creative and Performing Arts employment fell from 45,300 to 30,900 - a fall of 32%. Similarly, in
Motion Picture and Sound Recording, total employment fell from 35,000 in February 2020 to 22,100
in May 2020 - a fall of 37%.7 It is estimated that over 50% of businesses in arts and entertainment
had ceased operating as of April 2020.8 A survey of MEAA members undertaken in April 2020 added
to this picture. A staggering 68% of respondents said they had no paid work, while 24% reported
having some paid work but that their hours and opportunities had been reduced. Sixty per cent said
they had no significant income, while 30% said their income had been significantly reduced.9


Government support for individuals
On March 30, 2020, the Government announced measures to roll out support for workers in the
form of JobKeeper. The scheme worked by providing a wage subsidy of $1,500 per fortnight per
employee to eligible employers who had been significantly affected by COVID-19. The scheme began
on 30 March 2020 and was originally due to end on T1 September 2020, however, a modified form of
the scheme was extended until 28 March 2021.10

Despite the JobKeeper wage subsidy being available to the sector in theory, few arts and
entertainment workers received the support because the insecure reality of employment practices in
the sector made them ineligible. Eligibility for JobKeeper was too restrictive, especially relating to
casuals and freelancers. In particular, freelance employees - people whose work is episodic and from



7 ABS (2020) Labour Force, Australia, https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/labour/employment-and-
unemployment/labour-force-australia; MEAA (2020) Australia's creative and cultural industries and institutions:
MEAA submission, p 17, https://www.aph.gov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=23d7cd98-b5de-49e5-9740-
64d2d639ceb5&subld=694882
8 Pennington and Eltham (2021) Creativity in Crisis, p 5, https://futurework.org.au/report/creativity-in-crisis-
rebooting-australias-arts-and-entertainment-sector-after-covid/
9 MEAA (2020) Government needs to back up its claims about support to arts and entertainment workers,
https://www.meaa.org/mediaroom/government-needs-to-back-up-its-claims-about-support-to-arts-and-
entertainment-workers/
10 Fair Work Ombudsman (n.d.) Former JobKeeper scheme overview,
https://library.fairwork.gov.au/viewer/?krn=K600681


Submission of the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance                                                  PAGES
gig to gig - were excluded from receiving the wage subsidy. For example, any performer who works
as a contractor would be ineligible for JobKeeper due to the nature of their work being that they are
often engaged gig-to-gig. So, while the length of engagement with one particular company may only
be for a couple of months, their employment in the industry is ongoing with multiple different
companies.

A survey of MEAA members in April 2020 revealed the extent of the exclusion. Of more than 1,000
MEAA members surveyed, almost one-in-five said they had been declined access to both JobKeeper
and JobSeeker. A similar number had been unsuccessful in claiming for JobKeeper, but would be able
to claim the lower JobSeeker support. In total, 35% of members surveyed had been told they were
ineligible for JobKeeper. If those survey results were replicated across the entire arts and
entertainment sector, it would equate to tens of thousands of workers who were ineligible for
JobKeeper.11 In short, the restrictions around eligibility for JobKeeper meant that thousands of
workers were forced out of the sector, neglected by workforce wage subsidies, and forced to rely on
welfare and charity. The scheme was simply not fit for purpose in the arts and entertainment sectors.


Recommendations
The Australian Government's response to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the arts and
entertainment sectors was deeply inadequate. In particular, the restrictive nature of JobKeeper
eligibility meant that large numbers of workers in the arts and entertainment sectors were excluded
from the program. In the future, measures designed to support workers in Australia should be
attentive to the realities of employment practices in different sectors and the potential that
constrained eligibility conditions have to exclude certain groups.

We recommend that the inquiry consider recommending to government that, in the development of
schemes of support which might be made available in the event of some similar emergency in the
future, consideration be given to having regard to identifying categories of workers to whom such
support might be extended, without artificially restricting that category to 'employees' at law.

There is useful work already done in identifying relevant categories of worker. The most recent and
substantial such work is the new definitions of 'employee-like' worker, or 'regulated worker', to be
introduced into the Fair Work Act 2009 by amendments recently adopted by way of the Fair Work
Amendment (Closing Loopholes No 2) Bill 2023.

The new definition of 'employee-like' worker (section 15P of the Fair Work Act 2009) provides a
meaningful starting point to identify vulnerable workers, employed other than directly as employees,
who might reasonably and properly be extended forms of aid and assistance, alongside employees,
in a future emergency.

The definition of 'employee-like' workers, as it appears in new section 15P, is restricted (among other
restrictions) to persons who perform 'digital platform work' (s 15P(l)(c)). That element arises by
reason that, in this amendment to the principal legislation, the Parliament's intention had been to


11 Survey undertaken by MEAA of MEAA members. Total number of respondents to the first survey was 1039.
Total number of respondents to the second survey was 131. See MEAA (2020) Government needs to back up its
claims about support to arts and entertainment workers, https://www.meaa.org/mediaroom/government-
needs-to-back-up-its-claims-about-support-to-arts-and-entertainment-workers/


Submission of the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance                                             PAGE 4
support the making of a new jurisdiction specifically for the making of orders to protect the rights of
employee like workers in the 'gig economy' who perform work for 'digital platforms'.

If the inquiry were to adopt the recommendation that 'employee-like' workers be the subject of
inclusion in provision of support to workers generally, it would be neither necessary nor appropriate
that that recommendation be restricted to employee workers who perform digital platform work.
The usefulness otherwise of the s 15P definition is that it captures a reasoned and principled set of
criteria for identifying vulnerable workers.

Last, the pandemic revealed many of the existing problems with the sector and serves to reiterate
why sufficient and continued funding is needed to support good, secure, robust jobs. While MEAA
welcomes the Albanese Government's and Arts Minister Tony Burke's renewed commitment to a
national cultural policy, history shows that such efforts can only be productive if sustained across
multiple electoral cycles. To this end, MEAA recommends that current support for the arts and
entertainment industries be sustained and broadened, including measures to legislate local content
quotas to support the Australian screen industry, and by instituting minimum fees for freelance
musicians. This will in turn help to build a robust entertainment and arts sector that can better
navigate future challenges, including potential future pandemics.




Submission of the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance                                            PAGE 5
