I am a living woman from Tasmania. I closed my business because of covid. I didn't qualify for any
money in a state or federal capacity because of the ridiculous qualifications. It seemed there was plenty
of money for corporations and large businesses both state and nationally but nothing for small
businesses. Many in my area also closed. I believe this was part of the plan. The fact that bottle shops
could open but gyms and hairdressers couldn't told me this was nothing to do with health, and
everything to do with large corporations making loads of money out of people stuck at home.

When 100% tax deductions were offered to media corporations to "sell" the covid narrative, i knew this
has nothing to do with the truth.

When nurses and doctors who happily "put themselves at risk" during the "pandemic" were
unceremoniously disposed of for questioning the policies or when they refused to take an experimental
drug or loose the job, I knew this wasn't about health at all.

When people were told they couldn't go to a bar and stand up if they weren't jabbed, but they could sit,
then this was nothing to do with health.

When people were told in march 2020 that masks were no defence against viruses, and then nearly 12
months later you weren't allowed to enter a building without one. This was nothing to do with health.
There have been over 140 peer reviewed studies showing the dangers to people's health while wearing
masks. They used to quite clearly state on their boxes they weren't for virus protection. But again there
was a lot of money to be made out of selling masks so that warning was soon removed. Not only do we
have billions of tons of toxic waste created by this fear campaign that will not be resolved in 100 years or
more! And of course as soon as the masks were mandated, the sickness started to ramp up. This was
nothing to do with health and everything to do with fear and profiteering.

Worst of all, anyone who questioned any of the decisions or draconian methods imposed on people, the
media, with their tax incentives, made people out to be covid deniers or harming granny. Thus again had
nothing to do with health and everything to do with dividing communities.

And worst of all, if you didn't take the "vaccine" you were harming your community or you'd loose your
job. This shows me it had nothing again to do with health. Because saying if you don't put up your
umbrella you'll get me wet is basically what the job of a vaccine isn't. The idea of a vaccine is that it is
supposed to protect you and no one else. This proved it was all a giant marketing campaign of fear and
selling foreign owned corporations products, policies and to hell with any Australian's rights.

And then there are the millions who have been injured, murdered, and permanently disabled by this
Compulsory "vaccine". With doctors threatened they will loose their jobs for speaking out, it pretty
much remains the status quo that unless you drop dead or require an ambulance immediately after
taking this poison, then you are abandoned and gaslit by a medical system working in fear or denial of
the truth that is going on. Again this to me says its nothing about heath and all about destroying as
many people's lives as possible.

Not only do we need a royal commission into the draconian methods used over the last 3.5 years, we
need the perpetrators of these crimes brought to justice. We need to sever all ties with WHO, UN, WEF,
and remove all perpetrators of these criminal corporations who have maimed, injured, murdered and
made to suicide millions of Australians and make sure none of this can ever happen again.
All the people that publicly got up and "sold" this covid or the jabs to Australians also need to be held
accountable and an enquiry made into their personal financial gain they made from their public or
private capacity. This truly has been a crime against humanity.
