Royal Commission Necessary to Address Australia’s Covid 19 Response

The state and federal governments misused their power during the Covid-19 pandemic. The use of
on going ‘states of emergency’ to control and manipulate citizens and take away rights and
freedoms, was a great misuse of power and led to unimaginable harm. Governance in this way
needs to be thoroughly checked, so those in power do not abuse their roles via declaring unending
‘states of emergencies’ again.

Children forced out of schools and away from peers and teachers was a terrible solution to a
problem that never existed. Children were never at risk from Covid. The scare tactics used to
misinform the public, via state sponsored media need to be investigated. It was not necessary to
keep children and adults in their homes, we can (and could at the time) see this from countries (and
some states in the USA) that did not have this policy. Why were all the main stream media using
the same information? Why were other opinions not allowed? Who suppressed this information
that was available in other sources? Why did main stream journalists not do their jobs properly to
find the new and important information?

Other topics include the official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of
vaccines to block transmission, lies about the effectiveness and safety of useful proven treatments
(HCQ and Ivermectin) and prevention of prescription of HCQ and Ivermectin.

Other concerns lie in the response of AHPRA to doctors who questioned the government’s vaccine
policy. The one and only choice of vaccine’s as the answer to Covid -19 is not logical, useful,
effective, scientific, or considerate to a citizens right to choose their medical treatment.

We need a Royal Commission for a proper investigation into; corrupt vaccine procurement and
secret contracts; mask mandates; lock downs; vaccine mandates.

Further issues needing investigation are ongoing minimisation of the significance and prevalence of
vaccine injuries; media censorship, silencing of doctors, the role of AHPRA and ATAGI in
censorship and oppression of doctors, and the poor treatment of victims.

Unless there is a Royal Commission covering the above topics, we will be unprepared for the
inevitable next pandemic.
