Dear Panel,

As a casual employee                       I was forced to have two Covid vaccines in order
to continue working my position, a choice I resented being presented with but needed to
work (when I wasn't being forced home due to lockdown mandates). Within two hours of
my 2nd Pfizer vaccine I was a complete mess. I had rapid onset of new symptoms. I was
delirious, laying on the couch with shooting, burning pain radiating in my limbs, getting
worse to the extremities, and exhausted. Like many people, I had heard of multiple people
experiencing side effects but were constantly assured by the Government and media it
was normal and it meant the vaccines were working, and the vaccines were safe.

I was so exhausted and delirious and soon fell into a sleep. I woke up suddenly around
Sam in extreme pain, my hands and feet felt like they were on fire and I felt nauseous like I
was going to vomit. I had sensory overload, everything was confusing, it felt like my brain
didn't work properly. Once again I assumed this would pass, and took painkillers, but they
barely scratched the surface. My heart would beat inconsistently, sometimes skipping
beats, and I spent a few days in bed waiting for it all to pass. My hands had little dexterity,
it hurt even more to use them, and I was reduced to tears every day. I struggled with
executive function, being confused and unable to process information well.

After multiple days of it not getting any better I made an appointment with my doctor. He
assessed and observed me, prescribed me some painkillers and described my symptoms
as peripheral neuropathy and inappropriate sinus tachycardia, ordered some tests and to
watch and wait.

I cried everyday for the first month, it was agonising pain, and I hardly slept. I coated my
limbs in nurofen gel and lidocaine gel and took Tramadol and ibuprofen regularly. The few
hours I did work, I struggled to get by and would spend lunches and breaks laying down in
a spare room and most of my free time at home in bed.
Playing music is my passion, and I was unable to even fret a note on my guitar or bass for
the first five months. It put a lot of pressure on me and those close to me.

Around the five month mark things began improving slightly but it has still been a
disturbing journey. It is two years since and I have not made a recovery. I had to wait many
months to get in for further tests including a Stress Echo-Cardiogram which showed I now
have premature ventricular contractions of the heart, and a Nerve Conduction Study with a
specialist. I still have lots of executive function issues which makes me feel stupid and
causes me to make mistakes at work and at home.

I still experience lots of pain in my extremities, particularly the hands, and I have concerns
with my heart upon exertion. It's torturous. I have no idea how long this will continue for, or
what permanent damage has been done, or what complications will arise from my body
being weakened by this damage. I am out of pocket a lot of money, when I am already on
a low-income.

When I looked into the compensation scheme for Covid vaccine-injured, I was unable to
apply due to the ridiculously strict limited terms of application, shunted out by definitions.


           I was misled into believing the Covid vaccines were safe by the Government
and it has been a big fat lie. Had I known this traumatic event was going to happen to me I
never would have had any Covid vaccines. I have lost count of the amount of people I
know who have suffered injuries from them as well, including allied health professionals
and hospital staff.

I know a number of medical professionals who have told me that AHPRA warned doctors
that if they spoke up anything that could be construed as critical of the Government's
Covid policy or vaccines that they would have their licences revoked.

I have also suffered mentally from the Government due to the repeated messaging and
ideology that was promoted that anyone who opposed Covid vaccine mandates or claimed
injury, was dismissed and ridiculed as an “extremist”, “anti-vaxxer” and “anti-science”. It
whipped up a furore over social media that targeted anyone with valid experiences and
promoted hate and extremism against people like me. It's insulting and discriminatory.

The vaccines were clearly rushed, clearly not properly tested and forced upon a population
through coercion and manipulation, who were forced to choose between jabs over their
jobs, without informed consent of the risks, and forced to sign a waiver saying that the
pharmaceutical companies that pushed them through were legally indemnified. I also
endured the stress of waiting over many months to find out if I would have to have a
booster to continue my job when the Government had restricted medical exemptions from
further Covid vaccines, even after serious injuries had occurred!

Abuse of human rights has occurred repeatedly due to the Federal Government's
response to Covid, and there are many Department's who have failed in their role to
protect citizens. Criminal negligence has occurred. Pharmaceutical companies should not
be legally indemnified for dangerous products and the TGA should have withdrawn the
vaccines.

Even this inquiry being open for only a week appears like it was designed to limit the
scope and calibre of critical responses. I only found out about this late yesterday, giving
me just a day to prepare a submission.

I hope that this inquiry creates some meaningful change, ensures some justice for victims,
and prevents horrors like this traumatic experience from ever occurring again for anybody
now that the Government has set precedents for how extreme it can behave in any event it
decides is an emergency from now on in.
