Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

My concerns re the Covid "pandemic"* response are those of a concerned citizen appalled
at the lawlessness the Australian population was exposed to by its Government under the
guise of a general "health emergency".

It is imperative that the scope of this inquiry be widened to include every State and
Territory response, as these were key to the immense and prolonged suffering Australians
were forced to endure at the hands of their governments.

Since the Australian rollout was delayed compared to Europe and many other countries,
there was sufficient data available to know before the rollout occurred that 1. The vaccines
did not work, and 2. They caused significant harm. All this is coming to light now. The
Government did NOT exercise due diligence in accepting, purchasing, and approving these
drugs. And then to FORCE these experimental drugs onto the entire population was a
measure that was unwarranted and against all human rights and dignity. Close family
members lost their jobs and livelihood rather than surrender their physical bodies to
unknown harms. This should not have happened in what is supposed to be a democratic
country. The measures taken by Government were the wrong response, as quickly became
clear. The Government should have followed the pandemic response that was already in
place. Even so there was no change of course but a doubling down on what was not
working. And through it all the mantra of "safe and effective" continued to be pushed at
every level, despite the many injuries and deaths that were occurring. The assumed lethality
of the virus was clearly wrong from the outset - this should have been addressed before
the whole circus erupted.

The vaccines have left many dead and injured in their wake. I know three people ^^^Hby
the injection; one young lady who is^^|and has                  and two healthy people
that died immediately following injection. Many of the injured found that no-one was
interested in helping them - I know several who were simply told medical practitioners
                                                                           are seeing an
unprecedented 17%-and-rising excess death rate. The vaccine-injured, the "died-
suddenlies" and those diagnosed with "rare and aggressive"           especially in young
people, are owed the respect of a thorough and unbiased investigation.

This inquiry needs to examine the role of psychological warfare aimed at the Australian
people by its own Government. Many people were unjustifiably scare-mongered into
submitting to levels of control that would not be appropriate even in war time. The legacy of
mental health issues is ongoing, with meagre resources to assist our most vulnerable. Our
health systems are stretched to breaking point due to the failing health of the multiply-
vaccinated - many with so-called "long covid" linked to repeated vaccinations.

Our private doctor-patient relationships were subsumed into the Government agenda.
Doctors were silenced and penalised if they did not hold to the "official" line - our
politicians and leaders are not health professionals and should not be making personal
health decisions for us. AHPRA is a private organisation and had no purview to attack
medical professionals who were exercising their best judgment for the benefit of their
patients. It is known now that Government actively censored debate, especially on social
media channels. Gagging free speech is not the role of Government.

The "National Cabinet" was a joke. There was no need to suspend democratic process at
this time - this clearly was an abuse of power. In times of crisis Australians need solid and
transparent leadership and decision making. It was appalling that decisions that impacted so
heavily on the population were kept secret - citizens were NOT provided with any solid
evidence for the many harms and restrictions to which they were subjected. Many people I
know were badly affected by the closure of churches, at a time when they needed spiritual
comfort and help. We are reaping the results now with a generation of young people who
cannot cope with life and the toll on mental health nationally. Small businesses were badly
hit - I had ^^^^^^^^^^^^that have not operated since lockdown and I am unlikely to
revive them now.

The Prime Minister's conduct during this time was reprehensible and self-serving. No-one in
power seemed bothered by the massive overreach of Government - completely
unwarranted tracking and tracing of civilians; politicians and bureaucrats bullying and
vilifying those who chose to not take this experimental drug; dividing our communities and
encouraging Australians to turn each other in to authorities. It will probably take our
communities decades to recover.

Another issue that bears thorough examination is that of Big Pharma subsidies and
relationships with individual and corporate decision-makers. One of the most egregious
actions taken by Government was the banning of the Nobel Prize winning drug Ivermectin
which has been used with great success to save many lives, especially during the
"pandemic"*. There was no scientific basis for this action and Government are guilty of the
deaths of Australians who could have been saved through it. In its stead,drug
"Remdesivir" was given the nod as the approved protocol, despite not being shown to be
effective for Covid, but for killing patients th rough           A close friend was
administered Remdesivir without her consent, and against her wishes while in hospital for
Covid and almost died.

Government had no right to remove the need for informed consent. A family member
worked              and witnessed clients being forcibly injected after they had expressed
that they were non-consenting. The information leaflets provided with the drug vials were
completely blank. How could anyone give informed consent when there was no information
available on the drug ingredients? Government also had no right to remove our rights to
medical privacy.

Lastly the chaotic and incomprehensible response of the Government to the Covid
"pandemic"* revealed political leaders who were happy to exercise tyranny without
demonstrating to the Australian people any benefit from the hardships they imposed.
There clearly was an agreed "lockstep" with other nations such as the US, Britain and
Canada in terms of restrictions and demands placed on citizens. This is unacceptable.
Australia is a sovereign nation and our leaders are responsible to the Australian people to
act in the national interest.
The recent Hallett Inquiry in Britain has proved to be an exercise in whitewashing - majoring
on non-issues, sidelining genuine experts and now evolving into an attack on those who
questioned the official policies.

May this panel have the integrity to investigate real issues without fear, producing results
that will help Australia and Australians heal, while ensuring these errors, excesses and
human rights abuses never occur again. Bear in mind that those who were subject to
ridicule and treated with contempt for questioning the narrative have been proven correct
on every single question. Proven in dozens, indeed hundreds, perhaps thousands, of peer
reviewed papers. Vaccine harms. Vaccine inefficacy. Sweden's success. Economic
harms. Impacts on children. On mental health. Ivermectin's success. The killing of the aged
by ventilators and lethal end-of-life drugs. Big Pharma's lies and its crashing share
prices. Covid death numbers (hugely exaggerated). Excess non-covid deaths. Covid lies. On
every question, the science is in and the findings inescapable.



*NOTE: "pandemic" is so written since the evidence-based and original definition was changed to suit a
political agenda, rather than a health response. The original definition that had been used for many decades
included the need for a new virus to be causing "enormous numbers of deaths and illnesses worldwide" before
a "pandemic" could be declared. However, in 2009 this phrase was removed and replaced with "an increase in
'cases' of a disease" [1], Reference:

Flynn P. 2010. The handling of the MINI "pandemic": more transparency needed. Parliamentary Assembly
Council of Europe. Social Health and Family affairs committee. United Kingdom.
