Key health response measures

       The govt health response was damaging to the families and communities. The hype over
       the number of 'cases' of covid was the data to push an experimental vaccine onto
       everyone. Very poor use of commonsense. Now we see the damage experienced by the
       community from this. How come there is an 11% increase in deaths since the jab was
       rolled out? Vaccine mandates affected my family and I. (not covid!)

       I did not comply to the mandate for forced vaccinations and was suspended from|
       school! I was wary of the rushed experimental vaccine and was not offered a risk
       assessment or even talk to my employer about compassionate grounds for our situation.

                                                           I was originally suspended with pay, but
       then without pay
       I have been an exemplary employee                        with the



                           why am I being treated as if I have been unprofessional
                       ? I have suffered loss, harm and hurt through this terrible experience. When
        I was placed on suspension without pay, I lost income and was very stressed. We have
       suffered serious stress from this ordeal. I have the doctors' certificates to confirm this. For
       the first time ever I had
       (evidence can be provided). I looked into other               employment but the directive
       froreed me to be available during normal business hours. I was
       worried I would be in breach of the directive if they tried to contact me. Teaching has not
       just been a job for me, but a passion, and I was forced to consider resigning. How much
       longer could I stay in limbo before giving up a^^^^fcareer that I had put everything
       into, so that I could find a means to support my family? I was worried about becoming
       unemployed and unskilled as I had spent years of time and money into being a
                           I was

       Please use your role to recommend commonsense to the govt. Vaccines and lockdowns
       are not the answer to health emergencies - healthy diet, less stress and social interactions
       will help strengthen your God given immune system which is infinitely more efficient and
       effective to control these viruses.
       thank you for your time,
