The lack of Informed consent relating to Covid-19 vaccine roll-out.

The fact is that our government, governments from around the world, the WHO and
UNICEF have spent billions of dollars in a misguided attempt to try to figure out how
to make people take (coerce, compel, and entice) these experimental medical
products (COVID-19 vaccines). This was clearly a coordinated effort.

This monumental world-wide effort to manipulate beliefs has eliminated informed
consent. Informed consent is the idea that a person must be given sufficient
information before making decisions about their medical care. Pertinent information
includes risks and benefits of treatments, the patient's role in treatment, alternative
treatments, and the person’s right to refuse treatment. When people cannot get
reliable safety information on whether to take an experimental product or any
medical product, when they are being coerced and are not informed of important
safety considerations, informed consent is gone.

Remember, Australia only has Emergency Use Authorized COVID vaccines
available. These products have not had to go through the rigors of the clinical trial
process to receive full licensure. Of course, much of what has been labelled as
misinformation over the past three years has been proven to be truth. People were
not allowed to know the truth through propaganda, censorship, and coercion.

Of particular concern is the vaccine hesitancy clinical trials that are specifically
designed to see what types of propaganda, nudging, computational propaganda, and
behavioural modifications work best to elicit compliance from entire populations. In
funding such studies, the government and world-wide leadership have endeavoured
to eliminate informed consent.

According to the testimony by Dr Robert Malone, a pioneer of mRNA gene therapy
technology “Informed consent about the truth of these products and their
developmental state, their immature developmental state, we, the public were given
a series of lies.

Those lies included that these products were safe and effective, of course, without
actually qualifying what safe and effective was. Safe and effective was repeated
again and again and again without stating what that meant. That's neurolinguistic
programming. That's psychological operations. That's propaganda. We also received
the propaganda that these products would remain at the site of injection and the
draining lymph nodes. That was known to be a falsehood before these products
were ever deployed into humans, and that's revealed by the nonclinical data
packages from Japan and from Australia that have now been disclosed.

So, we knew, and they knew, that these products deployed all throughout the body.
We knew that they didn't stay where they were injected.

We were also told the falsehood that these products had a molecule, this modified
ribonucleic acid, which would only last in your body for a short period of time. We
now know that these products remain in your body and remain biologically active for
an undetermined period of time, of at least weeks and probably months; another lie.
We were also told that for these products, it was necessary to recognize that none of
us would be safe until we were all safe. This was part of the propaganda campaign
to insist that we all accept these products.

That was done, by the way, in violation of well-established norms that involved
coercion, compulsion, and enticement. Ice creams for children to take your jab,
hamburgers, or whatever the enticement was; that is illegal. That is not something
that has allowed under standard, well-established bioethics.

This series of lies was used to justify deployment of these experimental products,
truly with great profit margins no doubt, which were intended to demonstrate safety
and effectiveness of a vaccine platform technology, that then, according to a hearing
in the WHO in 2021, which as I recall, was headed up by Margaret Lou (formerly of
Merck Vaccines), could be used for other purposes.

During this WHO meeting it was established that this would be become a platform
technology, and all that would be necessary in the future would be to swap in a new
RNA sequence to produce a new product for a new disease. Now we need to resolve
the controversy regarding the toxicities associated with this technology and these
products, because we now clearly know that these are neither safe nor effective. We
also knew at the time of initial deployment. Pfizer knew at the time, that these
products would not prevent infection. They would not prevent replication and spread
of the virus. Now the data is suggesting they certainly don't protect against death or
prevent death and disease. We all know that, but that was what was asserted at the
time that they were deployed.

What we need, in order to resolve all the controversy that swirls around these
products, and whatever is the meaning of the latest data disclosure, is for
governments to just be open and transparent.

All I'm asking for is that we be allowed to access, in an open and transparent
fashion, the data which NHS and the healthcare agencies of the world have
acquired. So that those data can be analysed, so we no longer have to wrestle over
whether this data is good or that data has this flaw, et cetera, et cetera. Let's all
disclose, in an open and transparent way, so that the world's scientists can evaluate
that data and put to rest this controversy about whether or not these products are
safe and effective.

The current data of somewhere between 700 and a thousand peer reviewed studies
regarding the safety, or lack thereof of, of these products clearly demonstrates a
series of adverse events. I'm just going to list them. Myocarditis, including
tachycardia. Reproductive health damage. Women all over the world know about the
damage to their menstrual cycles. These are all things that are widely
acknowledged, peer reviewed, multiple hundreds of studies. Reproductive health.
Coagulopathy, including stroke. That means blood clotting, abnormal blood clotting.
Damage to peripheral ocular, and central nervous systems, including stroke.
Immunologic and oncologic harms. And the biggest adverse event of all, death.

So, in conclusion, what we've had here is a rushed product, a rushed technology, a
failure to provide respect for humans in not allowing them to have informed consent,
and furthermore, actively deploying the most massive propaganda campaign in the
history of the modern world to suppress the ability of the public to gain access,
merely to have the knowledge of what the adverse event risks are.”
