Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,
PO Box 6500
Canberra ACT 2600
Re:   Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Dear Officer,
Fundamental elements of our Governance structure and laws serve to protect our rights and freedoms, both our
rights and our freedoms were infringed upon during the time of Covid.

In Australia we have always had the 'right to choose' any vaccination, in fact anything that goes into our body
and to have forced upon us an experimental drug that has had such disastrous results was unlawful.

Australia has comprehensive statutory frameworks in place intended to protect the right of Australian citizens
to privacy, as well as the right to equal treatment and freedom from discrimination, so many of us were
discriminated against for our choices, jobs were lost and people were unable to have freedom of movement,
there was a distinct lack of access to hospital care for those who chose not to be vaccinated!

Human Rights Commission

During Covid-19, the Commission received an unprecedented number of complaints, and requests for help,
from the Australian public, noting in their responses to those requests that due to their inundation,
complainants had to wait up to six months for a response. Clearly, the Australian public had a perception that
the AHRC would assist them, and sought that assistance, desperately. We were let down.

Documents obtained under Freedom of Information (FOI) request by (a Doctor) reveal that the TGA appears to
have hidden numerous vaccine-induced deaths from the public view, including those of two children.

To date, the Federal Government has spent at least $18 billion on Covid vaccines and treatments. That’s
around $530 transferred from the pocket of every tax-paying Australian (assuming 15 million taxpayers,
based on recent stats), straight into Big Pharma’s coffers.

There needs to be a more comprehensive Inquiry into the Covid mismanagement of all forms of
Government, Federal, State and Local Governments.

Sincerely
