aipa
                                                                             Australian & International Pilots Association abn
                                                                             Suite 6.01, Level 6      Tel: +61 2 8307 7777
                                                                             247 Coward Street        Fax:+61 2 8307 7799
                                                                             Mascot NSW 2020          office@aipa.org.au
 ■ Advancing the interests of our members and the profession                                          www.aipa.org.au
                                                                             Locked Bag 5747
                                                                             Botany NSW 1455




  15 December 2023

                                                                             By Electronic Submission

  Australian Government
  Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
  Domestic Policy
  PO Box 6500
  CANBERRA ACT 2600




  To Whom It May Concern,

                      SUBMISSION TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

  Introduction

  The Australian and International Pilots Association (AIPA) represents over 2,300
  professional airline transport category flight crew, specifically within the Qantas group of
  pilots. AIPA is a key member of the International Federation of Air Line Pilots’ Associations
  (IFALPA), which represents over 110,000 pilots in over 70 countries globally. AIPA
  maintains a dedicated Safety and Technical organisation committed to safeguarding and
  advancing Australia’s aviation safety standards and operations.

  Direct Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic

      •    The aviation industry bore one of the most significant impacts from COVID-19
           shutdowns and restrictions. While acknowledging that the Terms of Reference
           (TOR) exclude the effects of unilateral actions by states and territories, these
           actions profoundly affected our members.
      •    Poor coordination of COVID safety requirements and border closures imposed an
           unnecessary burden on aircrew.
      •    International ports, particularly in China, implemented draconian regulations on
           aircrew.
      •    Lack of coordination between the Commonwealth, states, and territory
           governments made it challenging to operate aircraft interstate and overseas,
           dealing with varying health and quarantine requirements.
      •    Due to travel restrictions, lockdowns, and declining air travel demand, Qantas,
           Jetstar, QantasLink, National Jet Systems, Network Aviation, and other airlines
           faced financial challenges, resulting in reduced flight schedules, redundancies,
           layoffs, and furloughs.
      •    Many experienced job uncertainty or loss as airlines scaled back operations in
           response to decreased passenger numbers when borders closed both nationally
           and internationally.
      •    Pilots called to fly did not know if flights would materialise but had to risk their
           secondary employment to meet the company’s inconsistent needs and demands
           for servicing the Australian traveling public.



  https://auspilots.sharepoint.com/Safety and Technical/LEG PGA/Government & Regulatory Affairs/231215 AIPA
  Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry.docx
   •   Those who did fly found themselves having to quarantine in hotels that were not fit-
       for-purpose, both in outports and domestic settings. One Melbourne-based Second
       Officer reported having only three days in six months when he was not required to
       be in some form of “lockdown”.
   •       Many returning pilots felt their flying and cognitive skills had eroded.
   •       Other pilots decided to leave the industry and pursue new careers.

Pilot Skill Shortages

   •   Qantas’ decision to offer or assign early retirement led to the departure of many
       experienced training personnel, hampering the subsequent rapid return to flying.
   •   Shortages of skilled labor persist for various reasons, particularly in the pilot sector,
       where the impact is significant. Major US airlines have hired 10,000 new pilots this
       year, resulting in pay increases of 30 to 40 per cent over the next three years. The
       US median pay rate in 2022 was USD212,000. Today, Canadian pilots are crossing
       the border in search of opportunities arising from these developmentd.
   •   More fundamentally, there is a shortage of experienced pilots that cannot be
       resolved in the short term.
   •   The industry, across the board, is losing its appeal, making employee attraction
       more challenging. The only short-term solution involves higher costs.

Supply Chains

   •   Supply chain disruption persists, with airlines grappling with a lack of spare parts,
       leading to unnecessary downtime and disruptions for the traveling public.
       Additionally, there is a prolonged lead time for new aircraft. Indian airlines alone
       have ordered almost 1,000 new aircraft, while both Boeing and Airbus struggle to
       meet demand due to supply chain delays.

Individual Health and Safety

The impacts of COVID-19 will take years to recover from for many pilots.

   •   During the pandemic, many members were stood down and resorted to secondary
       employment. While JobKeeper was appreciated, pilot skills were diminished.
   •   The psychological impact of prolonged isolation has not been adequately
       addressed by employers or the government, resulting in long-term consequences
       such as relationship breakdowns, substance abuse, anxiety, and depression within
       the pilot profession.
   •   Some members still suffer trauma arising from physical and mental health issues,
       financial distress, job uncertainty, and social dislocation.
   •   The disinformation on vaccines was not effectively countered by the
       Commonwealth Government.
   •   Vaccine promotion and precautionary mask-wearing were abandoned too early by
       most jurisdictions.

Recovery and Future Sustainability Impacts

Understanding how the world and Australia dealt with the COVID-19 crisis is crucial. The
slow recovery of the aviation sector poses challenges for pilots in terms of re-employment,
and the training pipelines for new pilots have been affected.

Recommendations and Next Steps

   •       Establish global protocols for agreement on national border closures.



                                                                                              2
    •    Domestic states and territories in Australia need to establish fully coordinated
         systems for common data monitoring, and health and medical services need to be
         enhanced to be fully prepared for another pandemic.
    •    Consider the industrial relations implications of workforce standdown in IR policy
         and address unforeseen superannuation insurance denials for illness in future
         financial regulation.
    •    Improved collaboration and outputs from the Commonwealth Government
         regarding mask-wearing are key.
    •        Incorporate the importance of fresh air and exercise into future isolation facilities.

Being prepared for potential future pandemics in the aviation industry involves
implementing robust contingency plans and strategies such as:
    • Civil Aviation Safety Authority and employer understanding and acceptance of a
      compassionate approach to mental health issues
    •      Flexible operations planning
    •      Financial resilience
    •      Remote work and technology integration
    •      Health and safety protocols for airlines
    •      Supply chain diversification for critical components
    •      Cross training and workforce flexibility
    •      Collaboration and information sharing with other stakeholders (Flight Centre)
    •      Scenario planning and simulation
    •      Federal, state and international government cooperation and standardisation
    •      Public communication strategies
    •      Retention of experienced aviation personnel

It is critical to enhance our resilience and preparedness for potential future pandemics to
avoid the discordance and incoherence of international flying that occurred during the
COVID-19 pandemic. Failure to adequately prepare may subject the aviation industry and
our pilots to uncertainty and unscalable impacts, both personally and professionally.

Conclusion

The aviation industry faced substantial challenges due to COVID-19 shutdowns and
restrictions, with a notable impact on AlPA’s members. Despite the TOR excluding the
effects of unilateral state actions, such actions significantly affected the industry. Poor
coordination of COVID safety requirements and border closures added an avoidable
burden on the industry and aircrew, often with severe and lasting impacts, including
challenges in coordination, skill shortages, supply chain disruptions, and individual well­
being. AlPA’s recommendations stress the importance of global protocols, domestic
coordination, mental health support, and strategic planning for future pandemics. The
Association urges government action to ensure a more resilient and coordinated response
in the face of future challenges.

Yours sincerely,




Captain Tony Lucas
President

Tel:     61 -2-8307 7777
Email:   office@aipa.org.au



                                                                                               3
