Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
By                                                   12/12/2023.

My submission addresses the following term of reference:
• Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of
  state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National
  Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection
  Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

Normally, mandating an injection upon people would be a breach of civil liberties, but, the
argument goes, it's ok if warranted by emergency conditions. So the question becomes,
when did we cease to be in emergency conditions?

The Emergency Powers Bill used in WA was intended for short term emergencies such
as earthquakes or floods. They were never intended for ongoing use such as the WA
government imposed, certainly lockdowns of such length were not envisioned in that
legislation. Nor vaccine mandates for such a long period.

Certainly the use of Emergency Powers became disproportionate once vaccines became
available and had been initially applied. And even more disproportionate once the
deadliness of the virus had clearly waned, ie by the time of Omicron.

Government mandates should be subject to the normal scrutiny applied to any legislation.
The costs to businesses of mandating vaccine status have proven the
disproportionateness of WA government responses.

I am also suspicious of the imposition of Pf&AZ vaccines to the exclusion of Novovax,
Covax-19 (https://vaxine.net/projects/). I am suspicious of ignoring the broader immune
response to the weaker Omicron strain. "Omicron has delivered us from Delta," (see Dr
John Campbell at 5':30" and 7':19" here.) Was there a financial incentive to government
personnel to impose these vaccines?

A proportionate response could have managed serious spikes with temporary field
hospitals if necessary - all without a state of emergency, locked borders, lockdowns,
exclusive vaccine mandates & compliance apartheid. I am suspicious of the continuance
of the Emergency Powers for so long.

Thank you for inquiring further into such matters.
