                                                                             COTAV
                                                                             F# oWc* Auitfiiharu


COTA AUSTRALIA SUBMISSION TO THE COVID 19 RESPONSE INQUIRY


COTA Australia is the peak body representing the almost nine million Australians over 50. For over 70
years our systemic advocacy has been improving the diverse lives of older people in policy areas such as
health, retirement incomes, and more. Our broad agenda is focussed on tackling ageism, respecting
diversity, and the empowerment of older people to live life to the full.



Introduction
COVID 19 has challenged all Australians. Governments at State and Federal level all took different
approaches but there is no doubting that all were absolutely focussed on protecting the population,
including vulnerable groups such as older people.

In line with this, and the intention of the review, our submission focusses on the lessons learned. As the
national peak body for older Australians we were significantly involved with supporting people in the
population generally and those living in aged care as well as working with the Federal Government on
policy setting and implementation matters. Our State & Territory COTA member organisations were all
involved in supporting older people and working with their Governments as well. COTA Tasmania
undertook conversations with older Tasmanians that provides a good overview of the issues they faced,
many with applicability around the country. COTA-COVID-Conversations-Report FINAL.pdf
(cotatas.org.au)

Our submission focusses on the importance of clear messaging, ensuring peoples mental health is
protected and maintaining contact and connection even when there is an outbreak of COVID, or any
infectious disease.

Clear Messaging

Over the course of the Pandemic public health messaging became clearer particularly around
vaccinations facilitating good take up rates in the community and eventually in residential aged care. In
recent times there has been a worrying drop off in vaccination rates within the general public as well as
in residential aged care.

More recent messaging has lost some of its clarity and urgency. A comprehensive awareness campaign
on the dangers of being COVID complacent is needed. This is particularly pertinent for those cohorts
who are immunocompromised and are unable to be vaccinated or who have still been unable to receive
a complete (including boosters) vaccination schedule.

This should include information about access, eligibility and benefits of anti-viral medication as well as
the eligibility, benefits, and access to anti-viral medications, which have significant benefits for
vulnerable cohorts, including older people.

Aged Care

Aged Care, particularly in Victoria, experienced devastating effects from the Pandemic.
                                                                                  COTA^?
                                                                                  for Otde* AultHtaru

Residential Care

In the early days the Government and sector adopted the lockdown approach used for other infectious
diseases like gastro and influenza. This meant no visitors were allowed. COVID lockdowns were much
longer affairs which saw people isolated for extended and continued periods of time. This had serious
consequences for mental health as well as physical impacts for those required to stay in their rooms
losing mobility.

COTA Australia initiated the development of a Visitor Code for residential care to address these issues.
The Code was developed with other organisations who represent older people and aged care providers.
It was a difficult negotiation to balance physical and medical health safety with the mental health of
residents and their loved ones.

The key concept of the Code is that every person can have at least one nominated visitor on a regular
basis - multiple times a day if that is what is needed for social connection and wellbeing. In many
instances these visitors are an important part of the care team and their absence impacted on
appropriate care as well as mental health.

The Code achieved its aim and older people and families were able to reunite and connect over the
course of the Pandemic. However, there is still a tendency for some providers to move into a lockdown
or restrict visitors in the interests of physical health safety. As the system regulator the Commonwealth
Government must ensure that the concept of the nominated visitor remains in place during any
infectious disease outbreak. This requires a continuing focus on good infection control in aged care
facilities noting that given the nature of the setting this will not be hospital level infection control.

Home Care

Over a million people are supported to live in their own homes. Many, out of fear of COVID being
brought into their home, cancelled needed services. While the sector practised infection control prior
to the Pandemic there was limited use, and supply, of PPE. Ensuring that home care providers maintain
good infection control practices and have easy access to PPE is important to ensure that services aren't
stopped when there is an outbreak.

Volunteering

Many older volunteers withdrew from service delivery for their own health and safety. Volunteer
availability and commitment continues to be difficult for organisations and programs. Consideration
should be given to ways of supporting the critical volunteer role in outbreaks.

Mental Health

The COVID-19 Pandemic and lockdowns had profound impacts on the mental health and
wellbeing of people aged 75 and over.

Our research report 'Mental health and wellbeing during the COVID-19 Pandemic: The lived experience
of Australians aged 75 and over' surveyed over 1000 Australians aged 75+ about the impact the Covid-
19 Pandemic had on their mental health. Key findings included:


•   older women were more likely than older men to report their mental health worsened during the
    Pandemic, fluctuated regularly, or they experienced mental ill health for the first time.

COTA Australia submission to the covid 19 response inquiry                                                  2
                                                                              COTA
•   14 per cent of respondents reported their mental health worsened during the pandemic period.
•   15 per cent said their mental health fluctuated regularly.
•   Loneliness and distress arising from social isolation and separation from friends and family were
    identified as the key impacts.
•   Even those who considered themselves unaffected by the Pandemic described themselves as living
    with 'worry' and 'stress,' of experiencing sadness, loss, lack of sleep and appetite, of distress.
•   20% of those who reported their mental health suffered said they had no one to talk to during
    periods of lockdowns.
•   8% of those who reported their mental health suffered said they couldn't get the help they needed.


The report highlighted that existing mental health services were not accessible to older people,
particularly those in regional areas, those living in residential aged care, and for people from CALD
backgrounds. Instead older people relied on family, GPs and community based organisations and
networks for their mental health and wellbeing.

The COVID-19 Pandemic exacerbated pre-existing inequalities (particularly in relation to mental health
services), created new ones, and heightened the impact of ageism on the lived experience of older
people during the Pandemic. These impacts are likely to be long term, and will require localised,
iterative, and committed responses to address them.

The full report can be found here Research reveals older Australians' mental health hit hard by pandemic
- COTA Australia

Conclusion:

For many people aged 75 and over:

COVID is still a threat.

The impacts of lockdowns are still manifest - they were long term, but the responses were short term
and people are still experiencing the aftereffects of lockdowns.

Older people still do not have access to the home care services they need (especially those receiving
care at home - shortage of staff).

We need to ensure that the strategies that people aged 75 and over asked for - strong social
connections, the right information, access to social support and services, age-informed mental health
expertise, and engagements with community-based organisations - are in place, adequately funded and
accessible to all.

We also need to reiterate the right of older people to the highest standard of healthcare, including
adequate and appropriate mental health services. This should inform any crisis response, and post-crisis
planning. The Pandemic exposed the inadequacy of mental health services that are ageing and ageism
aware, accessible and affordable for older Australians.



Patricia Sparrow_____

CEO
COTA Australia

COTA Australia submission to the covid 19 response inquiry                                              3
