       Submission to the Commonwealth Government
               COVID-19 Response Inquiry
   December 2023 from

   •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
       and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
       National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee)
       and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

The Governments response to Covid 19 showed Australia is no longer a democratic country. Covid-19 is a
Covid Virus just as the common cold is a covid virus. Australia like most Countries has a response plan for
such occasions however this was not followed at all it appeared that we followed what ever was happening
in America or was being advised by the WHO (they did not follow their Pandemic Plan either). Prior to
attending a meeting with WEF the Prime Minister stated that masks were not needed and do not work
against viruses (and he was correct), on his return masks were expected to be worn. He even spruked the
same statements as those at WEF, ‘after the Pandemic, we will Build Back Better’.

There was no need to form the National Cabinet as there was already a system in place (COAG) to liaise
with the State Governments. It was very clear to me that the Prime Minister was playing ‘good cop - bad
cop’ with the States. A day before meeting with the National Cabinet he would state that the Federal
Government has no power to mandate, immediately following the meeting the States introduced mandates.
This was definitely driven by the Commonwealth through the States. The States did vary in how they
implemented what was required however, some states ignored the protests and media did not report on
them, other States used the full force of the law to illegally fine and incarcerate protesters.

The advisory bodies censored any critical thinking or discussion by using the juvenile tactic of name calling
and divisive language. Active discrimination against those that were not vaccinated was promoted. Media
were used by the Government to maintain a constant fear campaign on something that was no more than a
bad flu. Despite in excess of 70 studies showing that masks do not work the public was forced to wear
them and some health facilities still enforce it. People were told that they could get mask exemptions and
vaccine exemptions, however no doctors were allowed to give these out as they would have their
registration number revoked by AHPRA (Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency). In fact, if
Doctors or nurses (and any other health professional) spoke out against the narrative that the Government
was pushing they would lose their registration. With the many Doctors that have been struck off as well as
the thousands of nurses, is it any wonder that the Australian health system is straining under the weight of
the many adverse effects and deaths from the vaccines.

   •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
       key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and
       public health messaging).

As someone who is focused on reducing rubbish and not adding to landfill, I shudder to think how many
additional acres have been added due to this pretend pandemic. The PPE that was forced on people when
they entered a hospital was completely unnecessary. Add to that all of the masks that people made, or
purchased, all of which have ended up being buried in a hole somewhere, left for future generations to deal
with.

The public health messaging was a propaganda campaign, enforcing compliance through fear. Australia
was in a unique position to have learned that Ivermectin, Vitamin D, Zinc and hydroxychloroquine had
worked in protecting people in many countries. The authorities did not do any of their own research, in fact
in Senate estimates the TGA have said that they took their lead from the Centre for Disease Control (CDC)
in America, using their information. Unfortunately, the CDC did not do any research either, they believed
the Pharmaceutical companies when they said that they were ‘Safe and Effective’. Why would companies
say this when they had not had time to do the 10 or so years of research? The companies were all given
exemptions from any adverse effect or death that occurred, so the Australian tax payer will be footing the
bill for years to come. Not because of the extremely difficult to claim “Vaccine Injury Claim Scheme” that
has a time limit in which to claim, but all of those that have been effected, who are already on the merry-go-
round of being in the health system, trying to find a cure, as well as those who are not even aware that they
are walking time bombs and have issues that they are not even aware of. Why would Australia hand over
it’s sovereignty to these Pharmaceutical Companies?

    •   Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
        mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other
        preventive health measures).

When you ask about preventative health measures, do you mean encouraging people to get regular
exercise, to socialise, to get fresh air and sunlight (vitamin D)? All of which are part of the ABC of mental
health Act, Belong and Commit. Do you mean the forced isolation that occurred in homes for the elderly?
Did anyone actually ask the elderly what they would prefer? I did, those that I have spoken to would rather
have had family visit and die early than be locked in solitary. Perhaps the wrong message was sent to
everyone and enforced because many of the individuals in health agencies are bureaucrats and actually
have no training in the medical field. Registration of health professionals was weaponised to shut down
informed debate by health professionals that had much to offer. AHPRA (none of the committee are
actually health professionals) removed the registrations from Doctors, Nurses and other Health
Professionals if they spoke against the narrative of the Government and AHPRA continues to do so. Or is
it simply that every Government Department is now full of bureaucrats that actually have no training in the
department that they have been placed in. There appeared to be a complete lack of knowledge of those
involved in the decision making process.

Health support such as listening to people who have health issues (otherwise known as adverse effects)
since having the vaccine. Believing what they say when they say that everything has changed since the
vaccine, instead of in many cases being forced to have another jab before they can be treated. Instead,
they have been gaslighted, told that they have anxiety, or they are imagining symptoms, that the vaccine is
‘Safe and Effective’, when no one knew that it was ‘Safe and Effective’ because they were not tested prior
to release. As Greg Hunt said, (the then Minister for Health) when the provisional approval was given for
the vaccines ‘this is the biggest trial in history’. Then the vaccines are mandated by the States, even
though the Nuremburg code says that people can not be forced to partake in trials - illegal behaviour.
Then the States say that people that are not vaccinated can’t work in particular jobs this is discrimination -
illegal. The Nuremburg code also says that people need to give ‘informed consent’, this did not happen,
they were not informed of the risks because the risks were not known - illegal. The fact that it was made
very difficult to report an adverse effect (this is what should have been in the media on a daily basis) means
that there are likely to be many more that have not been reported. Many doctors would not report adverse
effects or give exemptions for further vaccines because of the risk their registrations being removed by
AHPRA. Reporting of adverse effects is needed to build a risk profile especially when using trial
therapeutics. The research into all adverse effects and the excess deaths needs to be investigated.
Someone needs to do this on behalf of the 30,000 that have lost their lives prematurely due to a trial
therapeutic that was enforced by the Government. Deaths are estimated to be approximately 1 in every
1000 that took the trial therapeutic, higher than the death rate of the virus. The health support that was
needed is to stop peopand is still needed as the Government still pushes more vaccines on people who do
not need them.

    •   International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to
        international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners
        for domestic use in Australia).

Australia has signed up to many international policies, none of which the Australian Public were aware of,
or were given the opportunity to cast a vote on. The only thing that border closures achieved was to prove
that what was putting Australians in hospital was the Covid MRNA therapeutics and not Covid.

Australians were not supported overseas, again most were forced to be vaccinated with a trial therapeutic
so that they could return to their homes, some were still not allowed to return even if they had all of the trial
therapeutics. There was no need to commit the Australian Public to buy the many vaccines that the
Federal Government ordered. All this has done is boosted the profits of the Pharmaceutical companies
(estimated to be $8 billion) while adding to Australia’s debt. The Variant of Covid that arrived in Australia
was no worse than the flu. Unfortunately, the bureaucrats that now run Australia have little knowledge of
viruse^ncUhat viruses will continue to mutate regardless. Worse than this, our Government committed to
assis^^^^^lset up facilitie^rWXustralia for the next Pandemic that has been planned. Did anyone do
the research and find out tha^^^^^|had never had any background in Vaccines prior to Covid 19?

   •   Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport
       issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).

Support for industry and business would not have been needed if the Government had not shut everything
down. Australia should have done what Sweden did. NOTHING

   •       Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

I still cannot fathom why the payment for people who do nothing productive in the economy were suddenly
paid twice as much to do nothing.

   •   Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing
       and homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of
       Commonwealth Government responsibility).

As far as I am aware there was no community support.

   •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
       (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
       with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
       linguistically diverse communities).

Stop Governing by fear. Using the military at community check points instilled fear in many Australians, the
Military should never be used against their own citizens. If you allow freedom of speech and allow critical
thinking, then much of this is not needed. Unless you are one of those in the business of building a larger
non productive sector and bigger bureaucracies.

The problem is that there is a bigger agenda going on that many are not aware of, unless they have been in
the leadership program of the World Economic Forum. You can start by asking, why were the big
Corporates allowed to stay open but the small business were forced to close and go bankrupt?

In Summary;

   1. The Government was and is involved in^^| activity such as, discrimination, removing bodily
      autonomy, administering a trial therapeutic without informed consent,
   2. The Government spent a huge amount of money on the administration of a Pandemic that never
      was, the vaccines, the advertising, the PPE, paying media to not report another point of view, the
      doubling of payments to people on welfare, supporting big business (Qantus) to keep paying staff
      when they went and sacked them anyway.
   3.     The Government has removed the trust that the population once had in it.
   4. The Government has made it so that the public no longer trust the health professionals who would
      say one thing “off the record’ and another on the record as they were in fear of losing their
      registrations. They made the doctors and nurses break their motto of ‘first do no harm’.
   5. The Federal Government can over ride the State Governments but it never did this when the
      mandates were introduced. The Federal Government stood idly by and watched as peoples
      families were destroyed and people lost their homes and businesses. Some lost their lives while
      other have been left with life threatening illnesses and others have issues that are not yet aware of.
   6.     The Government is a co-conspirator to murder and genocide.
   7. To whoever reads this, I hope that you are now aware, will do your own research and try to save the
      lives of others.
Yours in truth,
