Australian Travel
Industry Association (ATIA)

Submission to the
COVID-19 Response Inquiry




                    December 2023
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association




Executive Summary
The Australian Travel Industry Association (ATIA) (formerly the Australian Federation of Travel
Agents, AFTA) welcomes the opportunity to provide a submission to the Independent Panel in relation
to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry. The travel industry was one of the
industries that was most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of government policies
had a significant and lasting impact. Australia's travel agents and businesses experienced massive
revenue falls of over 90% during the extended border closures, while the broader tourism industry lost
around $4 billion per month.
While the COVID-19 pandemic was an unprecedented event meaning government responses were
understandably responsive in nature, this Inquiry provides an important opportunity to ensure plans
are in place to swiftly deal with future pandemics and national crises in a proportionate and effective
manner. Lessons can be learnt in relation to how all levels of government communicated between
each other as well as with key industry stakeholders and the general public and how that information
was distributed.
Financial support was a key element of government support, including both JobKeeper and the
COVID-19 Consumer Travel Support Program (CTSP). Without these, many travel agencies and tour
arrangement services throughout Australia would not be in business today and the several billions of
dollars of consumer credits and refunds from airlines would not have been managed and maintained
on behalf of the Australian public for use again when Australia's borders reopened. ATIA members
remain extremely grateful for these programs, which have allowed the travel industry to continue to
operate to support travelling Australians. However, there were some significant issues with the
implementation and administration of CTSP which served to undermine its purpose and which should
be addressed in any such future programs to ensure they achieve their objectives.
ATIA urges the Independent Panel to ensure the lessons learned are incorporated into improved
response measures and systems that more effectively anticipate, adapt and respond to pandemics
and other national crises.


Recommendation 1:

To ensure a unified and consistent approach to border control in a future crisis, the Federal
Government must put measures in place to implement a more controlled response and assume
control of domestic and international border policy as a whole, to better support the national interest.


Recommendation 2:

Ensure any future response (both in relation to the cruise industry and travel industry more broadly) is
proportionate to the risk at hand and that sufficient notice of decisions is provided to industry to
facilitate a smooth restart.



Recommendation 3:


Pandemic / disaster preparedness plans should be developed that are proportionate, scalable and
easy to adapt depending on the crisis at hand, based on the programs the Inquiry finds worked well.
Government should also identify and appoint from existing coordination committees to act as
emergency policy coordination. These should be industry specific and feed into a national plan that is
reviewed every five years by Government and Industry to ensure it is fit-for-purpose.




        Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiatBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   1
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



Recommendation 4:

All levels of government should commit to communicating effectively, including between each other,
with key industry stakeholders and with the public. The Federal Government should play a
coordination role and ensure the key information relating to discrete topics is available in a single
document.



Recommendation 5:

Government should publicly release the review into the COVID-19 Consumer Travel Support Program
in the interests of transparency and to ensure lessons can be learnt for future programs.



Recommendation 6:

Adequate consultation and engagement must be undertaken with industry to ensure programs are fit
for purpose. When issues are identified that prevent programs from achieving their stated objectives,
these should be explored and acted on as a matter of priority.



Recommendation 7:

Ensure any future grant system processes applications at an appropriate pace and provides updates
where there are delays.

In any such future program, ensure the process is not unnecessarily burdensome and only essential
information is sought. It would also be preferred that those charged with assessing eligibility have an
understanding of the travel industry / travel businesses so as to avoid unnecessary additional back
and forth and undue rejection of claims. Include a process for appeals where applications have been
assessed incorrectly.



Recommendation 8:

In any such future program, ensure a greater level of understanding of affected industries and
consistency in terms of support. Ensure industry is afforded transparency in relation to funding levels.




        Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiatBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   2
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association




1.       Introduction
Background
The Australian Travel Industry Association (ATIA) (formerly the Australian Federation of Travel
Agents, AFTA) welcomes the opportunity to provide a submission to the Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry. ATIA is the trusted source for advice and best practice in the travel
industry. Our mission is to highlight the integrity of our members through effective approaches in
advocacy, industry recognition and awards and ultimately boost the confidence of the travelling
public.
ATIA administers the Australian Travel Accreditation Scheme (ATAS), which is the largest and most
representative accreditation scheme fortravel businesses in Australia. All ATIA members are ATAS
accredited and recognised for their highest operational standards including yearly assessment of
finances, minimum levels of training and procedures for dealing with consumer grievances. For 2023
ATAS rejected 15% of applications to join the Scheme. About 85% of consumers are more likely to
book with an ATAS-accredited travel agency or tour operator.
Our membership base includes the full spectrum of travel intermediary businesses across Australia
including retail, corporate and online travel agents, tour operators, wholesalers and consolidators. Our
members range in size from the largest listed organisations such as Flight Centre, Helloworld,
Corporate Travel Management and Webjet, through to small independently owned and operated travel
businesses.
A large proportion of travel agent members are small to medium businesses, many of whom operate
under networks such as Helloworld, Flight Centre Independent, My Travel Group, itravel, Express
Travel Group, Travellers Choice and CT Partners. ATIA's membership also includes consolidators,
tour operators and wholesalers such as Scenic, APT and The Travel Corporation who are reliant on
competitive air prices to maximize ground expenditure.
ATIA has a total of 1,750 ATAS-accredited member locations throughout Australia.

Impact of COVID-19 on the travel ndustry
The travel industry was one of the industries that was most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and
Government responses to the threat of COVID-19. While major parts of the Australian economy
adapted to 'COVID normal' and entered the recovery phase following the lifting of state/territory
government mandated lockdowns, the travel industry remained in a stage of significantly impaired
recovery due to prolonged uncertainty surrounding state/territory border restrictions and the lack of
inbound and outbound travel. Government policies had a significant and lasting impact on the travel
industry, a $69 billion industry prior to the pandemic, travel businesses, as well as people's lives
generally, including the Australians who represent the approximately 12 million international trips
each year.1 Typically, at least 70% of all international air sales and over 90% of corporate sales
(medium and large businesses) are through agencies rather than direct with airlines.

Australia's travel agents and travel businesses experienced massive revenue falls of over 90% during
the extended border closures, triggered immediately on the international travel ban and exacerbated
further by state border closures, while the broader tourism industry lost around $4 billion per month.
Travel businesses spent the COVID-19 pandemic with no income due to the international travel
shutdown, chasing $10 billion in credits and refunds on behalf of customers. They also played a key
role in assisting Australians return to Australia and their respective state/territory during changing
border restrictions. While many parts of the Australian economy have rebounded, the impacts on the
travel industry continue, with international travel still below pre-pandemic levels.

There were also significant impacts on the travel workforce, with the travel industry experiencing a
loss of more than a third of its skilled workforce at a time when supporting travelling Australians was
made more difficult and time consuming due to COVID-19 requirements, travel restrictions and a


1 See ABS, Overseas Arrivals and Departures.

         Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiatBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   3
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



massively constricted travel infrastructure. Commencements in traineeships in the travel industry fell
by over 80 per cent, severely limiting the pipeline of skilled workers. This impact is ongoing, with
employers in the travel industry experiencing significant difficulties in recruiting and attracting people
back to the industry, largely due to the perceived unpredictability of the industry following past
approaches by governments during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Border closures and restriction of movement between and within states and territories were a central
feature of Australia's overall response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and the biggest source of impact
on the travel industry. These had a significant and lasting effect on the travel industry. While we note
actions unilaterally taken by state and territory governments do not form part of the Terms of
Reference, in order to achieve the Inquiry's stated aims of more effectively adapting and responding
to future pandemics, it is critically important these be considered. This has been reinforced by the
Australian Human Rights Commission who has advocated for this inclusion, stating:2

          Lockdowns, border closures, school closures, mask mandates and many other aspects were the
          domain of state and territory governments and to not examine these as part of the inquiry
          means it will be harder for us to improve our response for future pandemics.




2 Australian Human Rights Commission Media Release. Human Rights Commissioner critical of COVID inquiry scope, 21 September 2023.

        Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiarSatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au
 ATIA
    Australian Travel
  Industry Association




2.       COVID-19 response and border management
Border closures and restriction of movement between and within states and territories were a central
feature of Australia's overall response to the COVID-19 pandemic and the biggest source of impact on
the travel industry. While the Government's decision to introduce travel restrictions was based on
protecting the health of Australians, the economic impacts and mental health concerns following the
restrictions and border closures must also be considered and it is important to ensure any such
response to future crises is proportionate.

Consistent approach to borders
Border closures formed a central part of Australia's COVID-19 management strategy. However the
ongoing uncertainty over the status of domestic borders damaged consumer confidence in travel and
made the job of travel intermediaries increasingly difficult.

Each state and territory had their own set of regulations as to when the border would be locked down
and when it would be reopened. The inconsistent approaches taken by states and territories on
border opening and closing as well as the extremely short notice provided between the
announcement of such lockdowns and reopenings and when they took effect had a significant impact
on the travel industry, the Australian public and the economy at large.

To ensure a unified and consistent approach to border control in a future crisis, the Federal
Government must put measures in place to implement a more controlled, collaborative and co­
ordinated response and assume control of domestic and international border policy as a whole to
better support the national interest.

Recommendation 1:

To ensure a unified and consistent approach to border control in a future crisis, the Federal
Government must put measures in place to implement a more controlled response and assume
control of domestic and international border policy as a whole to better support the national interest.




Approach to cruise restart
Before the pandemic, Australia was one of the world's top cruise markets. Cruise tourism was worth
$5.2 billion a year to the Australian economy3 and sustained more than 18,000 Australian jobs. Travel
agents and tour operators are key cruise partners that are heavily reliant on cruise for their viability,
with many building up their operations during the growth trajectory of cruise tourism and marketing
specifically to cater to cruise passengers. Over 65% of travellers use travel advisors to book cruises.4

Cruising to and from Australia was closed from March 2020 until April 2022, after approximately 86
other countries had allowed their cruising industry to restart.5 The ban on cruise was continually
extended, leaving those businesses unable to plan for their future. While international air travel
reopened in February 2022, the ban on cruise was not lifted until three months later. Despite industry
advising the restart of cruise requires significant lead times for preparations, notice was provided just
one month prior to the ban lifting. This resulted in a delay in the ability to capitalise on the ban lifting,
and it was not until 31 May 2022 that the first cruise ship with passengers departed.6

During the restriction period for cruising, a comprehensive plan was developed by industry to facilitate
cruising to restart as quickly and as safely as possible, however this was not adopted.


3 Cruise Lines International Association Australasia (2022), Pre-budget Submission 2022-23, January 2023, pg.1.
4 CLIA, State of the Cruise Industry, September 2023 update, at https://cruisina.orq/7media/clia-iTiedia/research/2023/clia state-of-the-cruise-
industry-report-sept-2023-update-live.ashx
5 Parkes-Hupton, H. (2022), First cruise ship to arrive in Australia for two years due to COVID-19 pandemic docks in Sydney, 18 April 2022, ABC
News.
6 Swain, S. (2022), First cruise in more than two years sails out of Sydney, 31 May 2022, 9 News.

         Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiarSatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



It is important for any future response to be proportionate to the risk at hand and for there to be
sufficient engagement with industry, including to ensure sufficient notice is provided so that industry
can prepare for cruise restart.

Recommendation 2:

Ensure any future response (both in relation to the cruise industry and travel industry more broadly) is
proportionate to the risk at hand and that sufficient notice of decisions is provided to industry to
facilitate a smooth restart.



Transparency and future preparedness
COVID-19 was an unprecedented event and managing a pandemic the magnitude of COVID-19 was
beyond the institutional memory of the Commonwealth, state and territory public services. Given this,
much of the governance during the pandemic was reactive. This Inquiry provides an important
opportunity to learn lessons from the response to the COVID-19 pandemic and make improvements in
terms of preparing for future crises.
Throughout the pandemic, there was not sufficient clarity as to what was required to take the next
step towards managing the accurate health response while balancing other community functions.
This significantly contributed to the uncertainty for the travel industry and the Australian public as a
whole. While a roadmap to reopening was eventually developed, aspects were not closely followed,
which further contributed to uncertainty.
While the COVID-19 pandemic was an unprecedented event, it has highlighted the need to have
pandemic / disaster support programs that are proportionate, scalable, and easy to adapt dependent
on the crisis. These should be based on the programs the Inquiry finds worked well.
The plan should include what type of financial support programs would be made available and in what
circumstances. This needs to be aligned with key measures such as bankruptcy law protections,
temporary industrial relations changes which allow strong businesses to trade successfully during
the impacted period. To compliment whole of economy support measures, identified impacted
industries should have specific support programs which are activated once selected whole of
economy measures are implemented.
Government should also identify and appoint from existing coordination committees to act as
emergency policy coordination. These committees are established dialogues between Government
and Industry and would allow for rapid advice to improve the decision-making process limiting the
potential for unintended consequences.
These measures would be scalable, so there is an understanding of what Government response may
be expected, ranging from the more minor events such as Swine Flu all the way to another pandemic
similar to COVID-19 or significant terrorism incident.
These plans and processes should be reviewed every five years by Government and Industry to make
sure they are still fit for purpose taking into consideration the landscape and future potential risks
over the next five years. Such an approach would enable Government to act swiftly and would allow
businesses to consider these as part of their business planning, instilling heightened business
confidence.




        Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atia@atia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   6
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



Recommendation 3:


Pandemic / disaster preparedness plans should be developed that are proportionate, scalable and
easy to adapt depending on the crisis at hand, based on the programs the Inquiry finds worked well.
Government should also identify and appoint from existing coordination committees to act as
emergency policy coordination. These should be industry specific and feed into a national plan that is
reviewed every five years by Government and Industry to ensure it is fit-for-purpose.




Communication between Governments and Industry
Communication between agencies, departments, industry associations and the Australian public
during the COVID-19 pandemic was unfortunately inefficient and there is significant room for
improvement.

When decisions were made, communication on policy changes were delivered with a very short lead
time between announcement and implementation without the nuance of standard policy
development. There were examples of a policy change being announced commencing either
immediately or shortly therefore, without an accompanying document explaining the changes, which
generally followed some time later.

In addition, the fracturing of Federal and state/territory Government responsibilities led to a confusing
array of information sources, with no one clear fact sheet or explanatory document that industry or
the general public could access in order to easily understand the requirements across Australia.
There were fractured communications between and from governments of all levels to industry and
each had their own approach to their own borders and restrictions within them. There was no
document setting out the relevant border restrictions (including arrival caps, quarantine requirements,
etc) for Australia's international border as well as for each state and territory. Not only did businesses
have to keep up with the various restrictions across states and territories but they also had to keep up
with their various timetables and requirements for reopening, which were different. This impacted
business's ability to ensure compliance with regulations for themselves and their customers. This
was heightened due to the speed and frequency of the changes.

All levels of government should commit to communicating effectively, including between each other,
with key industry stakeholders and with the public. This was a key recommendation made by the
Senate Inquiry on COVID-19 in its final report.7 The Federal Government should play a coordination
role and ensure this information is made available.

Recommendation 4:

All levels of government should commit to communicating effectively, including between each other,
with key industry stakeholders and with the public. The Federal Government should play a
coordination role and ensure the key information relating to discrete topics is available in a single
document.




7 Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 (2022), Final report, April 2022, recommendation 6.

         Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atia(a)atia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   7
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association




3. COVID-19 Consumer Travel Support Program
The COVID-19 Consumer Travel Support Program (CTSP) was a program that provided grants to
eligible travel agents and tour arrangement service providers. It was administered by Austrade and
took place over three rounds.

This was an important program that resulted in several thousand travel agents and tour arrangement
service providers throughout Australia and many more employees of those businesses remaining
open and employed to provide the much-needed and ongoing support to Australians. This included
those whose travel plans had been impacted by COVID-19 cancellations and delays who were chasing
refunds and credits and those travelling internationally to return to Australia and travelling
domestically where necessary and permitted. ATIA members are extremely grateful for the CTSP and
without it, many travel agencies and tour operators would not be in business today. In addition,
several billions of dollars of consumer credits were able to be managed and maintained on behalf of
the Austrlaian public for use again once Australia's borders opened. Combined with JobKeeper, it also
played a role in travel agencies being able to retain some of their staff throughout the pandemic.

However, there were a number of issues with the design and administration of the program that
resulted in suboptimal outcomes which were not in line with its purpose. The process for so many of
our members was difficult, frustrating and the approach not fit-for-purpose in a number of instances.
We have outlined a number of these issues in this section, including recommendations for how these
could be addressed if the industry faces a similar situation in the future.

We also note that Austrade has done a review of the CTSP, however this has not yet been released.
The COVID-19 Response Inquiry should examine this review, as there are undoubtably lessons to be
learnt from the processes and approach adopted. In addition, in the interests of transparency, this
review should be released publicly.

Recommendation 5:

Government should publicly release the review into the COVID-19 Consumer Travel Support Program
in the interests of transparency and to ensure lessons can be learnt for future programs.




Consultation, engagement and responsiveness
ATIA understands the need to strike an appropriate balance between rapidly deploying support and
constructing a policy response that is fit for purpose. Unfortunately, while the CTSP greatly assisted
many travel businesses, engagement and responsiveness following the identification of issues was
severely lacking.

ATIA (noting at the time, ATIA was known as the Australian Federation of Travel Agents, AFTA)
worked closely with Austrade and the Federal Government on refining the implementation details of
the CTSP. On several occasions, ATIA requested the opportunity to review and comment on the detail
of the proposed CTSP and the implementation approach, however details in large part were not
forthcoming. As a result, there were multiple flaws in the approach which created unnecessary
confusion and strain in a period which was already extremely challenging for business owners and
their employees. At the peak of the pandemic, ATIA was engaged in almost daily communication with
Austrade on behalf of members, highlighting the inconsistent application of processes and lack of
transparency around delivery and rejections.

We have set out below details of a number of specific instances, including issues relating to inequal
application of eligibility criteria, transparency and difficulties in securing the level of support required
for ongoing border closures.


        Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiatBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   8
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



This can be contrasted with JobKeeper, which the Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment
found that key institutions involved in designing and implementing JobKeeper were appropriately
responsive and effective at engaging with industry, and that Treasury and the ATO were generally
collaborative and communicated well, resolving issues quickly as they arose.8

I lequal application of eligibility criteria and distribution of funds
Throughout the implementation of CTSP there were a number of issues relating to the application of
eligibility criteria which resulted in inequality and added to the strain already felt by businesses during
this extremely difficult period. As just one example, some members were excluded on the basis that
they were not believed to be a travel agent or tour operator business. This was despite being a
member of the Australian Federation of Travel Agents (as ATIA was then known), and a participant of
AFTA's Australian Travel Accreditation Scheme, where membership is limited to travel intermediaries
such as travel agents and tour operators.

Turnover v Total Transaction Value (TTV)

Another key issue was the lack of clarity and understanding around how financial information was
sought and acted on in terms of eligibility for different tiers of funding. Businesses were required to
submit financial information. In their G1 (total sales) on their BAS that was submitted as part of the
application, some businesses reported TTV in their G1, while others submitted turnover. No guidance
was given as to how to present this information, so businesses did this in line with the custom and
practice of how they ordinarily approached their G1. However, this resulted in inconsistency with how
a business qualified for the various tiers of payments. As a result, it was decided that 'for equity',
these businesses would be treated differently in future rounds - see the example below for how this
operated in practice. This resulted in a shortfall for these businesses throughout the grant rounds
through no fault of their own.




 Case Study 1 - Example of inequality of application of eligibility criteria
 ATIA member in 2019 had the following:
 • TTV of $11 million
 • Turnover of $1.3 million

 ROUND 1
 This business had always reported TTV in G1, not turnover.

 Due to the Government making G1 the criteria, the business was paid $100,000.

 As the ATO has confirmed, the business is not incorrect to report their TTV in G1. For equity, those
 paid on TTV in Round 1 were excluded in Round 2.

 ROUND 2

 However, Round 2 allowed exceptional circumstances to calculate if a business was due funding if
 paid correctly under both rounds and the gap was paid.

 ROUND 3

 No exceptional circumstances were allowed to determine if a shortfall is due to the member if paid
 correctly under each round.

 In this example, if the ATIA member had been paid correctly according to the turnover, they would
 be entitled to the following:


8 See Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment Final Report, 27 October 2023.

         Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiatSatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   9
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association




 •       Round 1: $37,500 (estimated under Guidelines)
 .       Round 2: $62,500
 •       Round 3: $156,250

 However, they only received $100,000, and experienced a $56,250 shortfall.

 ATIA urgently sought an Exceptional Circumstances review for those businesses who were
 excluded from Round 2 but were due funding under Round 3.


Multi-outlet businesses

Multi-outlet businesses (i.e. multiple outlets operating under a single ABN) were disadvantaged in
relation to grant funding allocation under the ABN-based eligibility model. Eligibility was limited to one
payment per ABN. This failed to recognise the additional burden of maintaining multiple shopfronts or
retail premises for small and medium sized travel businesses and that fact that each store had rent,
staff wages, overheads and customers to support in processing credits and refunds.

This resulted in significant inequalities in the way that the funding was distributed and detracted from
the CTSP's ability to achieve its aims. The case studies below demonstrate these inequalities.

In October 2021 a $10,000 multi-outlet grant was announced by the Government which went some
way to addressing the shortcoming of the CTSP. However this announcement came 1 year and 7
months after the Federal Government closed the Australian borders, 10 months after Round 1 of
CTSP grants opened and 6 months after Round 2 grants opened. This was despite ongoing
communication from ATIA about the inequality of this eligibility criteria. In this way, responsiveness in
response to the CTSP not being fit for purpose was significantly lacking. Further, inequality remained
due to the amount of the multi-outlet grant, which was lower than if the outlet was treated as a
standalone business.

 Case Study 2 - Example of inequality of application to multi-outlet businesses


 One ABN has 9 retail stores throughout regional NSW and received the max of $100,000. However,
 if you break it down per store via turnover, just one of these stores would be eligible for the
 $100,000 grant under the current model. This resulted in inequality as each store had rent, staff
 wages,overheads and customers to support in processing credits and refunds.

     Stores             Turnover               Round 2 Grant Amount              Grant Amount if assessed separately
     1                  $3,223,359                      $100,000                                   $100,000
     2                  $1,976,245                                                                  $62,500
     3                  $263,611                                                                    $25,000
     4                  $305,847                                                                    $37,500
     5                  $453,097                                                                    $45,000
     6                  $621,459                                                                    $50,000
     7                  $307,280                                                                    $37,500
     8                  $357,861                                                                    $37,500
     9                  $356,375                                                                    $37,500
     TOTAL              $7,865,142                      $100,000                                   $432,500




 Case Study 3 - Impact on multi-outlet businesses

         Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiarBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   11
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



 Two large non-listed largest privately owned multi-outlet agency groups at the time collectively
 operated over 50 travel outlets, with strong representation in not only metro, but regional Australia,
 employed over 350 staff (pre-COVID), mostly female and represented approximately over 2% of
 travel revenue nationally and substantially higher percentage if the publicly listed chains are
 excluded.

 During COVID, the ongoing uncertainty about border restrictions continued to erode consumer
 confidence in booking travel. This had a devastating impact on revenue, whereby most months
 were less than 10% of pre-COVID levels.

 A large cost burden requires support for a multi-agency support payment that is closer aligned and
 more reflective of the cost of running such a business. This includes payroll/staff costs, leases
 (without the protection of any Mandatory Code of Conduct for commercial leasing),
 telecommunication and IT costs, etc.



Recommendation 6:

Adequate consultation and engagement must be undertaken with industry to ensure programs are fit
for purpose. When issues are identified that prevent programs from achieving their stated objectives,
these should be explored and acted on as a matter of priority.




Assessment of applications and distribution of funds
Throughout the process there were concerns about delays in assessing and paying travel agents and
tour arrangement service providers and ATIA believes the pace was not in keeping with the intention
of the CTSP.

For example, as at 21 July 2021 the figures provided from Austrade indicated that only $25.2 million
of Round 2 (which had an allocation of $130 million) had been distributed, representing 1,206
payments. This was despite the application process opening on 2 May 2021, over two months earlier.
This was significantly impacting travel businesses' ability to operate, who needed the funds to retain
their skilled workers and remain open to assist Australian consumers. ATIA fielded many calls from
distressed members seeking an update, with the delays causing uncertainty as to whether they would
in fact receive the funds and if they could keep their doors open.

Deloitte was engaged by Austrade to undergo the verification process. It was brought to ATIA's
attention that there were a number of extremely onerous and unnecessary requests made for
applicants in relation to their financials that were more in line with a full audit, rather than making the
simple determination that they were not paid on TTV. There were a number of worthy applicants from
Round 1 and 2 who were been rejected due to the narrowness of the Deloitte assessment. Deloitte's
involvement significantly slowed the process and produced inconsistent and unfair outcomes
including as a result of their acting beyond agreed scope. This process contributed to the already
slow rate of distribution, which was contributing to the challenges and uncertainty faced by these
businesses. In addition, there was no clear appeal process when the parameters were applied
incorrectly.




       Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiaiBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   11
 ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



Recommendation 7:

Ensure any future grant system processes applications at an appropriate pace and provides updates
where there are delays.

In any such future program, ensure the process is not unnecessarily burdensome and only essential
information is sought. It would also be preferred that those charged with assessing eligibility had an
understanding of the travel industry / travel businesses so as to avoid unnecessary additional back
and forth and undue rejection of claims. Include a process for appeals where applications have been
assessed incorrectly.




Transparency and level of support
Throughout the process there were concerns about delays in assessing and paying travel agents and
tour arrangement service providers and ATIA believes the pace was not in keeping with the intention
of the CTSP.

Round 1 of the CTSP was announced on 1 December 2020, opening on 14 December and closing on
13 March 2021. Round 2 was announced on 11 March 2021 and remained open until 2 May 2021. It
was not until 21 February 2022 that the Federal Government reopened Australia's borders to all fully
vaccinated visa holders, including tourists, business travellers and other visitors. As is evident, this
was a significant period of time for travel agencies and tour operators to keep their business afloat
with drops in revenue of over 90% through no fault of their own.

As such, ATIA requested further funding in the form of Round 3 of the CTSP to sustain the industry to
keep their doors open to continue to support Australian consumers and retain the critical skills of an
industry made up of 70% women. In making such a request, ATIA sought information from Austrade
about the level of funding that was left over from Round 2. However, we were advised that this
information was held by Austrade, but it was not able to be provided. Unfortunately, ATIA did not have
the volume of applications and payments made to date under Round 2. This made it difficult to model
data to put a proposal in relation to an additional round of funding or to assess if the program
delivered on its stated objectives.

Transparent design and implementation of public policy is good practice and consistent with
international standards, and in any future program transparency should be a key element. As was
found in the Final Report of the Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment:'3

           The IMF, World Bank and OECD recognise that transparency helps economies to function better,
           encourages governments to act more effectively and efficiently and enables citizens to fully
           participate in public life. Providing access to information held by government also builds
           legitimacy in government. It allows the public to understand decision-making process and hold
           governments to account. Transparency also improves internal accountability.

In November 2021, ATIA was advised that no additional support would be delivered as the economic
recovery was well underway. Subsequently, in December 2021 the Government announced an
additional $109.6 million allocated to the Aviation Recovery Framework without any support for the
travel distribution system, which produces over 70% of commercial value for aviation.

Given that our industries faced the same challenges and our success is intrinsically linked, it was
disappointing that one industry received the required support at this time and the other did not. This
risked undermining the intention of supporting Australian businesses and jobs. Until international
travel returned the reality was that, without ongoing support, these businesses located across
regional and rural Australia as well as in our cities and suburbs could not survive. The continuing
State lockdowns and forced business closures exacerbated an already over stretched travel industry


9 See Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment Final Report, 27 October 2023.

        Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiafBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   12
ATIA
   Australian Travel
 Industry Association



in crisis. It was not until 26 March 2022 that the guidelines for Round 3 of the CTSP were announced.
ATIA and our members remain extremely grateful for this additional round of funding to allow them to
continue to support consumers to rebook their travel using existing COVID-related travel credits.
Moving forward, there should be a greater understanding of impacted industries in future pandemics
and crises and government support should be fairly distributed.



Recommendation 8:

In any such future program, ensure a greater level of understanding of affected industries and
consistency in terms of support. Ensure industry is afforded transparency in relation to funding levels.




       Level 31,31 Market Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 T 02 9287 9900 E atiaiBatia.travel Watia.traveloratas.com.au   13
