Submission for Covid 19 Enquiry

In this submission I would briefly like to address the following terms of reference for this enquiry -
Governance, key health response measures, broader health supports, financial supports, and
mechanisms to better target future responses

The entire “Covid 19 Pandemic Response “ was handled very poorly by the Australian
Government. The coercion and fear tactics of the Government are inexcusable.

The most poorly handled aspect of the response from my point of view was the mandating of
Covid 19 vaccinations by NSW Health for Health care workers and the way in which non
vaccinated staff were treated by NSW Health.


The Prime Minister at the time, Scott Morrison, stated publicly, that Covid 19 vaccinations were
NOT mandatory, (1) In Nationally administered organisations such as Australia Post, this was the
case. It is my understanding that federal law over rules state law.

                                              for over 40 years. I was a dedicated and
wowe^nar^^misse^man^mportanHamil^ind social functions because I was worxinq. At one
point for 18 months I worked every Saturday and Sunday. In 2020                    and

                                                   hard while most of my friends and
acquaintances were being paid to stay at home and redecorate or watch net flix.

In 2021 NSW Health mandated two Covid 19 vaccinations for all NSW Health Staff. This was
ILLEGAL. The Nuremberg Code states that it is illegal to force any person to receive an
experimental injection. Clearly the Covid 19 vaccinations were experimental and using new
technology. There had been no long term trials.

The Australian Immunisation handbook states that vaccinations can only be given with informed
consent. (2) How can informed consent be given when there is no trial data?

The US Texan Attorney General is, as you would be aware, now suing Pfizer for false and
misleading information.

Because I was unable to give informed consent I chose not to have have the Covid 19
vaccinations. I was forbidden to come to work as of the 29th September 2021 and then fired on
20th December 2021, even though I had many accrued weeks of long service leave. I believe the
actions of              were inhumane, and against human rights. I was fired by a manager I had
had no contact with at all, and 5 days before Christmas was cruel timing. Can you explain to me
how a year before this I was apparently a “valuable” employee, on the front line of this apparently
“deadly pandemic”, and a year later I was treated as a third rate citizen.

I was given a number to phone for “support” that went to a recorded message. There was no
personalised support from an actual person, and I was forbidden in writing to set foot on my
previous work site. For an organisation whose entire focus should be on health that is not
acceptable.

I of course,I am now 66 years old
^^^^^mwhere I do not earn enough to pay my bills. I am being forced to sell my house.
My mental health. Is extremely poor and I feel I have been tossed away in the trash. The way the
Federal Government and NSW Health marginalised, blamed and scape coated those of us who
wanted some information about the covid 19 vaccination was, once again, inhumane, and
constitute crimes against humanity as per the Nuremberg Code.


There are many questions that need to be asked by this enquiry, such as

Why was the definition of a pandemic altered not long before the emergence of Covid 19?
Why was the definition of a vaccine altered not long before the emergence of Covidt 9?

Why were decisions that were made by “Health Officials” and the Government not evidence
based and why did they not follow best practice models?

Why was the use of Ivermectin, which is a Nobel Prize winning drug with the administration of
over 4.6 billion doses, and Hydroxychloroquine initially suppressed, despite the fact that at the
time, Ivermectin was being issued to the Indian public by the Indian Government? Maybe
because it is cheap and effective? No gain for pharmaceutical companies there.
Why did the Australian Government suddenly change track and then issue Ivermectin to ED
patients? Why was Remdesivir used in Australia Hospitals? Because it is an expensive drug and
earns drug companies a lot of money?

Why were we promised that if we had one vaccine it would “Flatten the Curve”? Instead we were
told by “health Authorities” to have more and more vaccinations, and were forced into lock
downs, scanning, tracking and quarantine.That is an infringement of civil liberties, and of course
has undermined most Australian’s trust in the government. It has made us very suspicious and
distrustful. Not to mention that it ruined businesses, and has made people homeless and caused
many suicides and long term mental health issues.

Why if vaccines are safe, are vaccine manufacturers indemnified against harming or killing
people? Why are they not held accountable like anyone else in society - for example a car
manufacturer or even a person driving a car?

Why, if the Covid 19 vaccination was “Safe and effective” has a compensation scheme been
launched?

Why were Australians not permitted to cross state boarders, in one instance resulting in the death
of an unborn baby when the mother was denied entry to Queensland. (6)

Why was PCR testing used when the inventor of the test stated that it should not be used to
diagnose Covid 19?

Why were competent doctors such                    suspended for voicing a rational opinion
with supporting evidence? That does no^oun^scientific and unbiased to me. That sounds as
though someone in authority has an agenda. Why? I believe there is a covert agenda, and I
believe the Government must be stopped from reacting in the same manner in the future.

Why was Parliamentary process by passed? National cabinet cannot make laws.

There are a lot of questions that require credible answers.

I hope that the panel the you have chosen to review the evidence is truely independent and that
the people on the panel have the appropriate knowledge to investigate without bias and pay offs.


For my health, I believe that I made the correct decision when I chose not to be vaccinated. There
is evidence everywhere that the Covid 19 “vaccinations” have caused a lot of deaths and
disability and put a huge burden on the health care systems of the world. (3) (5)

                       cardiologist, for example, cites a study done in the USA by Nakahara and
colleagues with 700 vaccinated and 300 unvaccinated participants who had P.E.T scans. This
study concluded that almost every vaccinated person had changes in their heart that were a
disease pattern, and that these disease patterns were caused by the spike protein that remained
in the heart. (And was not quickly cleared from the body as the vaccine makers would have us
believe.also stated that people are now having cardiac arrests without having
myocarditis. He also composed a world wide study of all the peer reviewed published autopsies
performed on people who died after having the Covid 19 vaccination.This team concluded that
73.9 % of these people WORLD WIDE died as a result of having the Covid 19 vaccination (4).
There are thousands more articles by renowned medical doctors from varied fields of medicine
who have found many adverse reactions to the Covid Vaccine, the most severe, of course being
death.


I sincerely hope that the governments response to the Covid “Pandemic” is investigated without
bias and those responsible for horrendous crimes against humanity and violation of human rights
are held accountable.




1 https://www.skynews.com.au/australia-news/coronavirus/scott-morrison-confirms-government-
Will-not-seek-mandatory-vaccinations/news-story/2bc1c3a75b4db74cf2e4a9b7923e33ab https://
immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au

2 https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au3 AMPS PDF or paper back book “too many
deaths” This is an approximately 470 page book written by Australian Doctors.

4 Peter McCullough, McCullough Foundation on websites and instagram

5 Read articles by Dr Ana Maria Mihalcea, Dr Campbell, Dr Sherri Tenpenny, Dr Zelenko
(deceased), Or speak with Dr William Bay or Dr Hobart, in Australia.


6 https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/health-wellbeing/nsw-woman-denied-queensland-border-
exemption-for-emergency-case-loses-unborn-twin-c-1272490
