Covid-19 Response Inquiry

I have been deeply and negatively impacted by the overreach of the
Commonwealth, state and territory governments, health departments,
media, corporations and other groups, during the covid-19 ‘pandemic’.

In November 2021, after 12 years of faithful service working as a tradesman
for the same company, I was sacked for the crime of not taking the
experimental Covid-19 jab. At the time I was on long service leave. As I was
advised would happen, I lost entitlements because I would not resign and
the company sacked me.

I was also forced into a lockdown situation that was particularly difficult.

I was devastated. It was a very difficult time as I had mortgage repayments
as well as basic living costs. Immediate family members also lost their jobs.
It was very uncertain and anxious times. All aspects of my life were badly
impacted.

The Commonwealth government’s handling of the covid “pandemic” was
draconian, destructive, took no account of any alternative views, destroyed
our democracy, tramped on peoples’ rights and were based on incorrect
information and influences.

The Commonwealth government gave way to the states and territories by
allowing them to “do their own thing” in closing borders and in issuing their
own mandates. The Commonwealth government had the ability to lead, but
handed power over to a few in National Cabinet, a secretive entity that did
not represent the best interests of the people.

Every aspect of the governments’ action have to be scrutinised. Groups like
ATAGI and AHPRA must be held accountable for the misinformation they
spread, and for their actions.

There must never be mandates like “no jab no job”, as well as mask wearing
and lockdowns.

The governments’ must ensure they use information that is balanced and not
driven by an agenda.

The police force must not be used to intimidate and attack people who don’t
agree with the official line.
The media has to be held responsible for their actions which drove fear and
misinformation. Who funds the various media groups must be disclosed.

Patient/doctor confidentiality must not be over ridden.

All key players must be scrutinised for conflict of interests. Who was forming
policy and why? The suitability of those making drastic decisions must be
examined.

Statistics must be transparent. None of this counting as covid deaths those
who died with covid, not from it.

There is much more I can add.

In summary, the response to the “pandemic” was badly managed. Every
response must be scrutinised to ensure we never go through such a
devastating time again. Groups and individuals must be held accountable for
their actions.
