                        Submission to the Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry



We are the^H surviving children of the                      Our names                      and
     We write to inform the Inquiry of our experience during the COVID-19 panoemic^ni^xpenence
was deeply traumatic and has ongoing negative repercussions upon our wellbeing.

Our mother received the AstraZeneca vaccine                         She did so not only for her own
protection but equally out of a sense of duty. Our mother felt it her responsibility to be vaccinated to
reduce the impact of COVID-19 on her community, potentially saving the lives of others. In a cruel twist
of fate, this decision ultimately led to her death.

       passed away on                              as a result of the vaccine (as certified by her attached
death certificate). Shortly afterreceivingnerfirst dose of Astra Zeneca, our mother developed Guillain-
Barre Syndrome as a direct adverse reaction (as certified by the attached death certificate). This is a
condition whereby one's immune system attacks the nervous system. The condition caused paralysis
from the neck down, extreme pain not treatable with painkillers, and sporadic hallucinations that
severely challenged her grip on reality. After enduring these symptoms for 6 weeks,passed
away.

This experience has been immensely traumatic for the family. Our mother's time in hospital was one
of intense physical and emotional suffering. We put our lives on hold to support her - missing paid
work and being unavailable                       Our mother died without meeting her newly born
      granddaughters, who she was so excited to meet.^^^^l lives with disability and was a
dependent on^^^|. Her mother's death meant she had to find a new home while processing her
trauma and grief, which is ongoing for all of us.

Despite our mother's experience we are not anti-vaccination, in fact we are all fully vaccinated. We
understand the very low chance of illness or death due to the COVID-19 vaccinations. While this
knowledge gave us the courage to be vaccinated, it is also a source of great distress. To have our
mother taken from us due to such a rare occurrence is difficult to accept and incredibly painful. This
has not been sufficiently acknowledged by the government.

We found the government's response to people in our situation to be inadequate and, at times,
insensitive. We have been an afterthought to the vaccination process. We must repeatedly tell our
story to stakeholders to gain recognition, support, and compensation for our emotional and financial
losses, thus reliving the trauma over and over again. All this while rebuilding our lives without our
mother, who was the keystone to our lives. This lack of support is unacceptable because ^^^^death
was a direct consequence of the vaccination rollout. The Government has a responsibility to the small
minority harmed by COVID-19 vaccines. It should provide adequate financial, administrative, and
mental health support for families of those suffering adverse reactions, and compensation that
adequately addresses both suffering and loss of life.



Response to Criteria:

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and
territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National
Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

The government strongly urged eligible citizens to be vaccinated. At the time, our mother could only
access Astra Zeneca, which caused a fatal adverse reaction. There was insufficient supply of
alternatives. People over 60 were told Astra Zeneca was safe for their age group. Several cases of
severe adverse reaction to Astra Zeneca had already been made public when ^^^Hreceived the


              Submission                                                                                 1
vaccine. We believe that, if available, our mother would have chosen a different vaccine that may have
been safer. Nonetheless, our mother trusted government advice that the vaccine was safe, a fact that
in the larger sense we do not dispute.

Safe vaccines, however, do harm or cause death for a very small minority. The government strongly
urged everyone eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine and knew a small number of adverse reactions
would occur. It is the government's responsibility to care for these people. Sufficient compensation
and also administrative, mental health, and financial support should be provided for those currently
affected and in future pandemic vaccination programs. This should be relatively inexpensive and easy
to administer given the tiny number of adverse reactions.

Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example mental
health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive health
measures).

Our family still suffers from the mental health impacts of our mother's death. We have had to seek
help independently at our own personal cost. We must continually recount our story to different health
care providers and thus relive the trauma. This exacerbates physical and mental health symptoms.
Additionally, we are often disbelieved when explaining the cause of our mother's death. To receive
treatment for heart palpitations connected to trauma and grief,^^Hhad to change medical clinics
because medical staff disbelieved her and generally made her feel like a crazy antivaxxer - this was
incredibly distressing. Finding alternative care was difficult as she lives inarea with limited
medical facilities.      requested a document from the government to certify the cause or our
mother's death but was told to ask her GP, who in this case was the source of the problem.

What is currently needed, and what should be provided in future pandemics, is a specific case manager
to help those affected by adverse vaccine reactions. This case manager should in the first instance be
an advocate while the afflicted is in hospital. We had to fight tooth and nail for quarantine restrictions
to be eased so that we were able to be with our mother in her final hours. This should not be our
responsibility. In the event of death, this case manager should facilitate access to mental health
support and help navigate the compensation process.

Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

Our mother's illness and eventual death also drained our personal finances as we put aside everything
to support her.^^| of us forewent paid work to be with her. Pandemic quarantine restrictions made
visits by extended family and friends impossible, and we did not want her to face this ordeal alone.
^^Hcame from^^^|at his own expense, missing work ancHeaving his^^^who was suffering
^^^^^^^depression, to care for their recently born                    spent most of her time with
       or advocating for medical care, missing work and barely seeing
The compensation scheme does not cover loss of income or mental health expenses for families of
those who die because of a COVID-19 vaccine. ^Mand ^^^HstilI experience heart palpitations that
are frightening, difficult to treat, and which curtail the hours they can work. These expenses should be
compensated given they are a consequence of the vaccine rollout program.

We would also like to express our dissatisfaction with the COVID-19 Vaccine Claims Scheme on the
following grounds:

    •   The Non-Dependent Lump Sum Payment of $70,680.00 for deaths resulting from the vaccine
        is shockingly low. While it is difficult to place numerical value on a life, this does not come
        close and is well below comparable standards. This low figure makes us feel that the
        government does not really value our mother's sacrifice or recognise our loss.


              Submission                                                                                2
    •    Compensation covers either Pain and Suffering or Death, but not both - payment for Pain and
         Suffering is subtracted from compensation for death. We find this insensitive and insulting.
         The implication is that pain and suffering has no meaning once one has died and is thus
         unworthy of compensation. Our mother suffered greatly in the 6 weeks before her death. She
         was paralysed from the neck down, in such pain that being moved by staff caused screams of
         agony, and had intense hallucinations that severely afflicted her sense of reality. Now that she
         has died, this suffering has no value according to the current policy. This feels callous, and is
         quite galling considering that compensation for both Pain and Suffering and Death would be
         relatively inexpensive given the few people who die from adverse reactions.

    •    There should be more assistance with compensation claims. Families should be contacted by
         government representatives to be made aware of the claims scheme and then assisted
         throughout the process. We wonder how many families have gone uncompensated because
         they are unaware of the scheme. We have finally submitted our claim over 2 years after our
         mother's death because we were overwhelmed by the process and needed questions
         answered.        was promised assistance after contacting her local member and State and
         Federal Health Ministers but only received an initial phone call and a few emails. Exasperated
         by this, we contacted        o tell our mother's story and highlight the government's
         inadequate response.
                                                                   This          prompted contact from
         Services Australia but no meaningful assistance. It took another approach to the federal health
         minister via^^B l°cal member to receive answers to our questions and sufficient help with
         our claim.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First
Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

      I receives a disability pension and has complex health needs. Our mother's death meant she
needed to find new housing and may have ended up homeless without the help of her immediate
family. People with disabilities have the right to live with dignity and participate actively in their own
lives - the government response did not address this or ensure this happened. A case manager should
have been assigned to the family, with a particular responsibility to assist^^^Bthrough this difficult
and stressful process. A dedicated case manager should also have been available to help^^^Bobtain
her third vaccination dose. Given our mother's experience, she did not want to receive Astra Zeneca.
She approached several healthcare professionals and was informed that she had no choice.^^Bthen
stepped in and eventually arranged for someone to come to her home and administer a different
vaccine. To achieve this,^Bhad to again recount her story to multiple stakeholders, exacerbating her
heart palpitations and psychological distress.


Documentation:

We have attached the following documentation to substantiate and provide more detail to our story:

    1.        A copy of our mother's official death certificate
    2.        A timeline of events related to our mother's death and our experience since
    3.        Examples of relevant email correspondence
    4.        Examples of relevant official letters received




              Submission                                                                                3
