                           Covid-19 Pandemic Response Inquiry Submission 15/12/2023
I am Greg Rankin. I am a minister of religion in the                      md have been so for 12 years. I am
writing as an individual and not as a representative of th(                 ln February 2022 I was mandated by the
church to be vaccinated even though Omicron was the predominant variant and all the evidence coming of South
Africa revealed that the Covid-19 vaccines had extremely limited ability at stopping the spread which made the
reasoning for vaccine mandates no longer tenable. However, vaccine mandates continued and I had my initial two
dose regiment. I will never get another mRNA Vaccine again.


Issues with vaccinations and public health measures employed during Covid-19
When the MRNA vaccines were rolled out, they had not been through rigorous trials to test the safety or
effectiveness. BMJ article1 and European parliamentary inquiry where^jokesperson admitted that they never
tested the vaccine on transmission responding the question on whethet            had tested it before the vaccine
entered the market saying "no... we were really working at the speed of science to understand the market." A part
from the obvious contradiction that working at the speed of science means to vacate sufficient scientific trials in
order to get something to market as quickly as possible, this is proof that any claim made by the TGA thatj
provided evidence in their vaccine approval submission that the Covid-19 vaccine reduces infection rates are patently
false.

In terms of safety, it is clear that the vaccines increase myocarditis and in particular in young men and boys". Yet
when asked in the senate inquiry th^            representative giving expert testimony did not know the mechanism by
which the^^^lvaccines could cause myocarditis and pericarditis1". This is alarming and shows that proper trials
were not conducted by ^^Hin their trials and do not understand the risk their vaccines can cause. In addition,
in a recent study of 777 Swiss medical personnel who got Covid-19 vaccine booster shot, it was shown that 5.1% saw
increased levels of troponins, a marker which can show presence of myocarditis, with 2.8% adjudicated as having
myocardial injury.IV This investigation was the first of its kind and not a retrospective study like most have been and
has showed that 1 in 35 people may get myocardial injury from the vaccines.

Ever since the introduction of Covid-19 vaccines into the Australian population in 2021 all-cause mortality has been
over 15% above the 5-year average from 2015-2019. The response government health officials have given in
parlimentary inquiry to questions on this has been to say that correlation does not equal causation. This is of course
true, however all causation will also correlate. A study from March 2023 of 17 equatorial and Southern Hemisphere
countries across 4 continents which included Australia has found a causal link between Covid-19 vaccinations and the
increase in all-cause mortality.
         "The overall all-ages vDFR for the 17 countries to be (0.126 ± 0.004) %, which would imply 17.0 ±0.5
        million COVID-19 vaccine deaths worldwide, from 13.50 billion injections up to 2 September 2023. This
        would correspond to a mass iatrogenic event that killed (0.213 ± 0.006) % of the world population (1
        death per 470 living persons, in less than 3 years), and did not measurably prevent any deaths.”
The vaccinations are one of the biggest disasters in human history.

In addition to thi,s the vaccine only confers 3 months or increased immunity and then has a negative effect on a
person's ability to catch Covid-19. The covid-19 vaccine is very limited in the type of immunity it affords and is easily
circumvented by virus mutations.vl A well-known medical principal is to not vaccinate into a pandemic, yet that is
precisely what was done and with hindsight we have a good example of why not to do this.

The^^^^rials were also a shambles. The British medical journal reports that when^^^said that one of the
teenagers in their trials suffered a^^^^^|they actually had                                           requiring her to
have 24-hour care. And one final obvious sign that the TGA doesn't really believe the vaccines are safe is that none of
vaccines being administered in Australia have been given full approval and only have provisional authorization.

As more and more damning evidence on the safetyv" and effectiveness™1 of the Covid-19 vaccines has come out in
medical journals, government and health officials have moved the goal posts and simply change their messaging
instead of admitting they got things wrong. No longer are vaccines claimed to be effective at preventing the spread of
Covid-19, and instead the Australian people are gaslit, being told that they never did claim that. But is absurd since
the rationale for vaccine mandates was so that you don't spread it to grandma. I believe this is because if the
government admitted they were wrong, they would lose all credibility to exercise similar control measures of future
pandemics, and also lose credibility in being able to label inconvenient truths as "misinformation".
Another area of concern is that of the public health measures utilized to respond to the pandemic. The only solutions
to the pandemic coming out of the World Health Organisation (WHO), which our Federal and State Governments
followed, were lock downs, marks mandates and vaccinations. All other medically accepted ways of reducing the
pandemic were ignored or worse prevented and criminalized. Why weren't people encouraged to exercise and get
outdoors and as health as possible? This would have lowered known risk factors and co-morbidities, most
importantly obesity. Obesity increases the severity of Covid-19 more than any other risk factor due to the cytokine
storm in the body's fat cells. There was no health advice for people to increase Vitamin D. Vitamin D is necessary for
the immune system to function optimally. Everyone should have been getting out in the Sun and taking vitamin D
supplements. Zinc is also important for the immune system and can help the body fight against viral infections within
hours of taking it, but no mention of taking zinc. Well established drugs with anti-viral properties such as lvermectinlx
were made illegal for medical professionals to prescribe and demonized by government officials. Another question
raised, is why was the advice for people to not seek medical attention until hospitalization was necessary? Everyone
knows that prevention followed by early intervention is the best way to treat serious conditions and illnesses. Why
didn't the government health officials inform people to seek early treatment? Why were elderly people locked in
nursing homes and family not allowed to visit? In general the lock downs increased domestic violence and inflicted
the cruel punishment of isolation on people leading to huge increasing in depression and suicide rates. The
government health officials and the WHO whose advise they were following, have been completely incompetent.
The outcome of this is that the WHO has little credibility in advising of effective disease prevention measures
countries should implement during pandemics as well as our government health officials who followed their advice.

The Federal and State governments centralized all medical decisions with a one size fits all approach. No latitude was
given for age and vulnerability status. Also, there was no recognition of the best medical practice, which calls for
individualized health care. Businesses and individuals were not only permitted but coerced by governments to violate
basic human rights. Speakin^pei^onallv^/vhen I received my primary doses in February 2022 in order to continue
working for the church, the^^^^^^^^fwas allowed to terminate my employment for not getting vaccinated,
despite this being illegal according to human rights regulations of which Australia are signatories. Also, the form I
signed did not meet informed consent requirements as necessitated under the Nurenberg code. Myocarditis was not
on the list of possible side effects, when it was already well established and acknowledged by then that myocarditis
was a possible vaccine injury. In addition, at the time I received the covid-19 vaccine, it was already known that the
vaccine had very little impact on transmission on the Omicron variant, which as the only variant around. This is why
governments should not be in charge of health decisions of individuals, because government is inflexible and slow to
react. Vaccine requirements for employment and access to venues should have been made illegal the moment the
Omicron variant was prevalent, because the South African data clearly showed that the excuse of needing to be
vaccinated for the health of others was no longer relevant. But still Federal and State governments persisted for
months with draconian restrictions on those who refused to get vaccinated. It seems like these restrictions were
more about rewarding compliant behaviour and punishing non-compliant behaviour. This behavioural programing by
governments on their populations is completely unethical and is against human rights regulations.

Doctors need to be able to keep their independence from government control and use their own judgment in making
individualized health assessments, as well as be free to try off label treatments and share results with other doctors.
A focus on fitness also needs to be recommended during pandemics as well as immune system boosting vitamins and
minerals with recommended doses promoted. No off-label medication should be banned from doctors being able to
prescribe.

The governments of Australia - federal, state and local do not have the right to take away freedoms from citizens.
The right to work and the freedom to participate as a fully member of society are human rights which are to be
protected by government and as representatives and servants of its people. Government does not have the right to
trample over segments of its citizenry because they want the citizenry to do something. When governments can
coerce or force its citizenry against their will to do take a medical intervention, then that is by definition an
authoritarian state. The right to refuse forced injections, such as the Covid-19 vaccine, aligns with the
internationally agreed legal requirement of Informed Consent established in the Nuremberg Codex. It establishes,
that every person must "be able to exercise free power of choice, without the intervention of any element of
force, fraud, deceit, duress, overreaching, or other ulterior form of constraint or coercion; and should have
sufficient knowledge and comprehension of the elements of the subject matter involved as to enable him to make
an understanding and enlightened decision." As such the State Government restrictions, as well as mandatory
vaccinations break the Nuremberg Code.
Some of the problems I see are reduced freedoms for Australians and greater government control over the lives of
citizens; a precedent where government is able to limit freedoms of citizens when they have not done any illegal or
deserving of having freedoms curtailed; an increase in depression and suicides as people are not allowed to
participate in society and are treated as second class citizens; a deep resentment and increased mistrust towards
health officials and medical professionals; creating the public perception that the unvaccinated are selfish and
unwilling to think of others; creating the perception that the unvaccinated are preventing Australia from eliminating
Covid-19 and getting back to normal; creating the perception that the unvaccinated are dirty; increase and solidify
the belief that our governments are using Covid-19 to seize authoritarian control of Australia, which will therefore
have the opposite of effect of increasing vaccine hesitancy and further increasing distrust; further dividing
Australians.

Some clear signals that best health outcomes were not the primary objective of the Federal and State governments
as well as health officials are those of mask mandates, vaccinating of children.

Cloth masks have never been shown in any trial to have any benefit in reducing transmission of Covid-19 and anyone
who knows anything about the size of viruses and the tightness of cotton fiber weave in cloth, knows that it is
patently absurd to think that a cloth mask will do anything to prevent the spread of an air born virus. Hence why we
saw the absurdity of suggesting double and triple masking being official suggestions from the WHO and CDC. The fact
that governments allowed people to use cloth masks shows that the reduction of Covid-19 is not the real reason for
mask mandates. The least nefarious reason is that governments had already told everyone masks can keep them safe
and to change course would cause too many political problems. However, knowing that the reason we were told to
wear masks is not the real reason is enough to justify questioning mask mandates and rule out any such action in the
future.

Vaccinating children shows that Covid-19 vaccinations, are about more than keeping the population safe from Covid-
 19. Healthy children simply do not die of Covid-19. If you have heard to the contrary then you are listening to
unfounded fearmongering. Even when all children are factored in, the death rate according the best CDC estimates is
0.003%.Xl To put that into perspective that is 10 times lower than influenza. However, healthy children can die or get
life-long side effects from Covid-19 vaccines. Allowing 5-11-year-olds to get the vaccine shows that greed or some
other factor was at play. When an FDA panel member responded to a question on approving the vaccine for children
they stated, "We're never gonna learn about how safe the vaccine is until we start giving it." The literal position of
those having oversight of the vaccine role out in the US was that they had not done any trials for children and they
were going to recommend it and hope for the best. This action alone is enough to justify raising questions about the
 Federal and State governments' Covid response and fondness for promoting the vaccines as the only available
treatment.
The undermining of medical experts with differing opinions on the vaccines and covid-19 prevention measures and
the working with social media companies to prevent expert medical professionals from expressing their educated
opinions online was inexcusable, especially since the views of those medical experts have turned out to be correct
when the official advice from the government health officials has been hopelessly wrong (already discussed the main
issues such as mask mandates, lock downs, vaccinations, exercise, vitamin D, Zinc, Invermectin). The Great Barrington
declaration which as of now, almost has 1 million doctor signatories, including professors and noble laureates, was
just dismissed and ignored. Knowing that the FDA and Doctor Fauci coordinated to stop other medical opinions from
being heard and that Dr Fauci is compromised by his ties to the Wuhan lab is concerning. The US Intelligence services
believe that the Wuhan lab is the most likely source of the Covid-19 outbreak. There have been a number of email
scandals involving Dr Fauci which have shown that there was much corruption in the responses of the official bodies
overseeing the US's response to Covid-19. Social-media companies also relied solely on Doctor Fauci for the "correct"
medical information around Covid-19 and once Joe Biden became president and made vaccines his official response
to deal with the pandemic, social media companies made it against their terms of service to question vaccine
effectiveness. Social media "fact-checkers" were wrong about vaccine effectiveness, when they reported that it was
misinformation to say that vaccines were not very effective in preventing transmission after 6 months or that Covid-
 19 may have come from the Wuhan lab. The overwhelming evidence is that Covid-19 looks to be engineered and no
intermediatory host animal has been found. The official Covid-19 response is not all the world experts but a small
group of select experts who have ulterior motives, so that when even almost 12 million doctors and world-leading
experts in virology and immunology have tried to speak, they have been silenced and castigated as fringe doctors.
This has been case of Australian order of Australia winner, and Australia's only vaccine inventor^^^^^^^^B


' https://www.bmi.com/content/375/bmi.n2635
" https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5721735/
111 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yNSCQ.yPv-7U
iv https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/ejhf.2978
v https://www.researchgate.net/publication/373989367_COVID-19_vaccine-associated_mortality_in_the_Southern_Hemisphere
vi https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30617114/
Vl 1 https://portlandpress.com/clinsci/article/doi/10.1042/CS20210735/230273/The-SARS-CoV-2-Spike-protein-disrupts-human ,
https://www.mdpi.com/1999-4915/13/10/2056/htm, https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34100279/,
https://www.ahaiournals.org/doi/10.1161/circ.144.suppl 1.10712,
Vl" https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8481107/, https://www.bmi.com/content/374/bmi.n2074
ix https://freewestmedia.com/2021/ll/03/japan-sees-huge-drop-in-cases-after-it-switches-to-ivermectin/
x http://www.cirp.org/librarv/ethics/nuremberg/
                                                                                                      Scenario 5: Current
                  Parameter           Scenario 1         Scenario 2   Scenario 3         Scenario 4     Best Estimate


            Ro*                                    2.0                             4.0                        2.5


            Infection Fatality            0-19 years: 0.00002             0-19 years: 0.0001          0-19 years: 0.00003
            Ratio'                       20-49 years: 0.00007             20-49 years: 0.0003         20-49 years: 0.0002
                                          50-69 years: 0.0025              50-69 years: 0.010         50-69 years: 0.005
                                            70+years: 0.028                70+ years: 0.093            70+ years: 0.054


     HHB    Percent of infections        10%                70%          10%               70%               40%
            that are
            asymptomatic*


     mwMI   Infectiousness of            25%               100%          25%               100%              75%
            asymptomatic
            individuals relative
            to symptomatic'


            Percentage of                30%                70%          30%                70%              50%
            transmission
            occurring prior to      | they felt was the best scenario the infection |
            symptom onset**
xi
                                     fatality rate is presented in that column. This
