                    Australian Education Union
IAEUE                 Ground Floor, 120 Clarendon Street, Southbank, Victoria, 3006
                                                                                        Federal Office
                                                                                        Phone : +61 (0)3 9693 1800
                      PO Box 1158, South Melbourne, Victoria, 3205                       Fax : +61 (0)3 9693 1805
    CNIO^.            Federal Secretary: Kevin Bates                                  Email: aeu(a),aeufederal. org. au
                                                                                       Web: www.aeufederal.org.au
                      Federal President: Coirena Haythorpe


                                                                                      15 December 2023


COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
c/o COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce
The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet




Email: COVID-19Inquirv@pmc. gov, au


Dear Sir/Madam,

  Re: AEU Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Please find attached the Australian Education Union’s submission to the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

Please contact me if you have any questions in relation to our response.

Yours sincerely,




Kevin Bates
Federal Secretary
                           Submission
                              to the

                    Commonwealth Government
                    CO VID-19 Response Inquiry




                          15 December 2023




                                       Australian Education Union
Federal President

Kevin Bates
Federal Secretary


                                       Telephone:
                                       Web:
                                       E-mail:
Introduction

The Australian Education Union (“AEU”) makes this submission on behalf of over 193,000 AEU
members employed in public primary, secondary, early childhood and TAPE sectors throughout
Australia.

Throughout the pandemic, the AEU sought to work constructively with the federal Chief Medical
Officer and state and territory Chief Health and Medical Officers with the paramount goal being
upholding the safety and wellbeing of all employees of the preschool, school and TAPE sectors,
and the students and community members who engage with those settings.

The AEU welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry. AEU members were and continue to be acutely affected by the
COVID-19 pandemic. Therefore, it is appropriate that the Commonwealth, state and territory
governments openly and fulsomely reflect on the decisions made which affect the work and
personal lives of all involved in education.

This submission chronologically refers to and annexes key AEU documents providing a summary
of the significant actions and advocacy of the AEU to the Commonwealth Government, and of
Government’s responses. We conclude by identifying some of the key impacts the COVID-19
pandemic has had on public education and educators, and opportunities for improved policy
responses in the future.

The AEU is affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions (“ACTU”) and supports the
recommendations made by the ACTU in its submission to this Inquiry.

Select chronology of actions taken by and advocacy of the AEU

 19 March 2020 - correspondence to Prime Minister and National Cabinet - Annexure A

On 19 March 2020, the AEU communicated to the Prime Minister and the National Cabinet a list
of key concerns and recommendations regarding the functioning of public schools. The AEU
drew attention to significant issues affecting educators and students, issues which would remain
the subject of policymaker and public debate throughout the pandemic, including:

     •   The provision and promotion of hygiene measures and material in schools, including
         personal protective equipment for educators, and increasing cleaning frequency.
     •   The key role of integrating workplace health and safety representatives in policy
         responses affecting workplaces and maintaining the relevance of occupational health and
         safety laws and processes in formulating and implementing school-related responses to
         COVID-19.
     •   The unique challenges of implementing public health recommendations in school and
         education settings, for example, the impracticability of staff and students maintaining 1.5
         metre social distancing.
     •   Where schools are to remain physically open, that provision be made for the safe working
         conditions of particularly vulnerable cohorts of education workers, including working
         from home.
     •   Where schools are physically closed, and education is delivered virtually, that provision
         be made for equitable access to technology, particularly for regional, remote, and lower
         socio-economic status students, who may not have access to the necessary
         telecommunication technologies.1

1 Annexure A, p 1-2.

AEUSubmission - Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                  2
Of these and other concerns, the Commonwealth failed to provide an adequate response - the
Commonwealth Government’s actions were characterised by delays and piecemeal arrangements,
which left great uncertainty for the teaching profession who were dealing with the day-to-day
reality of the pandemic. Despite the urgency of the situation and the need for clarity many
political announcements were not followed-up with the necessary resourcing or practical
implementations at a systemic level. On 16 April 2020, in response to an AEU demand that the
Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) provide detailed advice about how all
public education settings were to minimise the risk to staff and students if they were to remain
open, ‘seven National Principles for School Education’ were published.2

Unfortunately, these principles reflected a retreat from a nationally coordinated position, referring
school management of the pandemic principally to individual state and territory government
discretion, and which in any event provided for unclear and contradictory ‘principles’, including:

    •   Social distancing is required in all public situations - but is not required to the same
        standard in schools;
    •   It is safe for children to be at schools because they have low chance of infection, are not
        vectors for Coronavirus - but it was considered unsafe for them to visit grandparents
        because of the risk of infection; and
    •   Children cannot play on playground equipment in local parks - but can play on equipment
        within their school.

The consequence of the publication of these principles in education settings was widespread
distress, anxiety, confusion, and anguish about personal health situations. During this time, the
AEU resolved to follow the health advice of the AHPPC but it was our members in preschools,
schools and TAPE settings who were carrying the burden of unclear policy settings and advice
from governments and education departments.

Furthermore, the pandemic exposed the deep inequality that exists in Australian education. For
many public schools, the rollout of the policy settings and principles highlighted the vast resource
shortages and ongoing lack of capital works investment across the nation. Schools were tasked
with operating within the health guidelines, yet many did not have access to appropriate
sanitation, adequate hygiene and washroom facilities, protective equipment and adequate space to
accommodate social distancing guidelines. This placed immense pressure on staff and stories of
principals driving from shop to shop to secure sanitation products were common.

Unfortunately, for much of the pandemic the Commonwealth Government failed to provide clear
directions for public education staff, despite repeated AEU requests for assistance and guidance to
ensure the safety and health and wellbeing of staff and students.

The National Cabinet’s decision of 16 April 2020 was a milestone in moving from a nationally
coordinated response, to an atomised, state-by-state, territory-by-territory response. In responding
to individual state and territory decisions affecting public education, the AEU’s state and territory
Branches and Associated Bodies extensively advocated and campaigned for the safety and
wellbeing of public education students and staff. The decisions of such state and territory
governments, and the AEU’s responses, are significant, however, are unfortunately excluded from
the purview of this Inquiry. Such exclusions significantly diminish the utility of this Inquiry. To
properly consider and evaluate Australia’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the actions of all
governments must be considered, analysed, and be open to recommendations for reform.




2 National Cabinet, Cabinet Minute, 16 April 2020, p 19 of 78, accessible here.

AEU Submission - Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                  3
28 May 2020 - submission to Senate Select Committee Inquiry into the Australian Government’s
Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic - Annexure B

On 28 May 2020, the AEU, in its submission to the Senate Select Committee Inquiry into the
Australian Government’s Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic, was critical of the
Commonwealth Government inconsistent and contradictory advice to and expectations of the
teaching profession. For example, notwithstanding significant government limitations on general
gatherings, schools were expected to remain open - demonstrating a failure to attend to the
workplace health and safety of education employees, or of the students and families exposed to
infection risks not expected of the general Australian community.

In its submission, the AEU raised the matter of the inconsistent health advice provided by the
Commonwealth Government regarding the physical opening and ongoing management of schools,
and drew attention to evidence provided to the Inquiry which demonstrated that the
Commonwealth Government’s advice varied not due to any changes in medical and scientific
recommendations, but rather due to shifting partisan and political attitudes.

In its submission to the Inquiry, the AEU drew attention to other key education-related public
health and education decisions by the Commonwealth Government, including:

    •   Private education-only hygiene measures, including the provision of $10 million in
        funding for hygiene measures available only to non-government schools, unfairly
        excluding publicly educated children from learning in safe school settings.
    •   Negative statements made by government members about public education and educators,
        most notably by the then Chair of the House Standing Committee on Education,
        Employment and Training, who, in disregard for the nuances of safe school management,
        encouraged parents to leave their children unattended at school and to call the police if the
        principal refused to accept them.3
    •   A lack of understanding about the impact of the pandemic on students from economically
        disadvantaged backgrounds and First Nations students who were disproportionally
        affected by school closures. Particularly so, due to the Coalition Government’s failure to
        ensure that public education was fully funded to the minimum Schooling Resource
        Standard.4
    •   Of the $259 billion dollars of support payments announced by the Commonwealth
        Government, the vast majority was directed towards supporting business and individuals
        rather than the urgently needed investment in public education capital and ongoing
        funding - measures which would have had a significant economic stimulus effect.

24 June 2020 - AEU ‘Digital inclusion for all public school students’ report - Annexure C

On 24 June 2020, the AEU released the ‘Digital inclusion for all public school students’ report,
written by Barbara Preston Research. The report highlighted the ‘digital divide’ between students
with access to appropriate learning from home technology and resources and those who, as a
result of lack of access to the preconditions for effective learning at home - for example,
computer access, appropriate housing, and reliable internet - were being left behind by the
transition to learning from home during the pandemic.

The report noted the following key national statistics reflecting this ‘digital divide’: that 125,000
public school students lived in dwellings without any internet access, with many more students


3 ‘Government MP tells parents to call the police on schools that won't take students amid coronavirus’, ABC News,
30 April 2020, accessible here.
4 Cobbold, T, “Public Schools are Defrauded by Billions Under New Funding Agreements”, 2019, accessible here.

AEU Submission - Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                   4
only able to access the internet via their own or a parent’s mobile internet connection (an
inadequate connection for a household’s simultaneously access to videoconferencing).

Additionally, of the 125,000 students without access to the internet at home, such students were
disproportionately from educationally disadvantaged student cohorts (including regional, remote,
and lower-socioeconomic status students) - thereby having their pre-existing educational
disadvantage compounded by the expectation that students would leam from home during the
pandemic.5

June 2021 - AEU calls for vaccine prioritisation clarity - Annexures D and E

In June 2021, regarding the identification of priority cohorts for vaccine access, and following
earlier correspondence to the Health Minister, the AEU made public calls for the prioritisation of
all education employees during the vaccine rollout. The AEU recommended that education
professionals should be given priority access due to the education workforce being frequently and
significantly exposed to increased infection and transmission risks due education settings often
being excluded from lockdown and other public health anti-transmission measures due to the
essential role of education.

September 2021 - AEU calls for COVID-19 National School Recovery Plan - Annexure F and G

On 3 September 2021, the AEU called for a COVID-19 National School Recovery Plan to be
developed by Education Ministers. The AEU called for a Plan that would:

    •   Prioritise teachers, principals, education support staff and students currently eligible for
        COVID-19 vaccination as a matter of urgency.
    •   Guide the reopening of schools, accommodating the needs of states and territories
        currently in lockdown and those that need to prepare for any future COVID-19 outbreaks.
    •   Identify and fund the infrastructure needs to allow schools to accommodate for social
        distancing, hygiene, ventilation and any other public health measures to prevent the spread
        of COVID-19.
    •   Consult with the teaching profession, through the AEU, to ensure the voices of teachers,
        principals and education support staff are heard throughout the process.

On 15 September 2021, the AEU Federal Executive passed a resolution calling for the creation of
a COVID-19 National School Recovery Plan. In addition to the material called for by the AEU on
3 September 2021, the resolution called for key elements of the proposed Plan to include:

    •   Capital investment necessary for the safe running of schools (ventilation audits, air quality
        testing, air purifiers, masks, sanitation etc.) and physical modifications of buildings /
        learning spaces; and,
    •   Recurrent funding necessary to provide ongoing staffing and resources for the delivery of
        intensive learning and support programs for students. This will require the Commonwealth
        immediately providing the funding required to achieve 100% School Resource Standard
        funding for all public schools with the states/territories progressively providing their full
        investment.

However, in January 2022, the Prime Minister, despite advising that such a plan would be
announced, failed to announce a plan, instead announcing a delay to the creation of the plan.6
Concerningly, the Prime Minister confirmed the extension of the close contact isolation


5 Annexure C, p 6.
6 ‘PM fails to deliver national schools COVID-19 plan’, AEU media release, 13 January 2022, accessible here.

AEU Submission - Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                             5
exemptions to include the education workforce, which the AEU noted would exacerbate the health
and safety concerns already being expressed by AEU members.

22 September 2022 - AEU submission to the Senate Select Committee on Work and Care -
Annexure H

In addition to the direct health impacts of COVID-19 and of Long COVID, public educators have
reported experiencing significant mental health harms during the pandemic. In September 2022,
the AEU’s submission to the Senate Select Committee on Work and Care provided the following
details regarding the impact of the pandemic on teachers’ mental health, including its gendered
harms:

        Covid-19 has exacerbated the pre-existing mental health risks to educators. During
        the pandemic, the education workforce has been exposed to increased risk of stress,
        exhaustion, and anxiety.7 Indeed, in Victoria in 2020, teachers were the most likely
        workers to lodge mental health-related workers’ compensation claims due to the
        impact of the pandemic.8 The high risk to educators is amplified by the gendered
        harms of the pandemic - international research indicating that women experienced
        higher mental health risks during the pandemic due to, among other factors,
        increased domestic and caring obligations.9 Women in Australian households with
        children reported spending approximately 43 more hours per week on childcare
        during the pandemic than men.10

        This inequity was further exacerbated for women teachers who were often
        simultaneously attempting to teach online whilst also managing the care and
        remote learning of their own children. The CO VID-19 pandemic has amplified the
        risks of workplace injuries to teachers and has amplified the health and safety risks
        experienced by teachers at work prior to the pandemic. The cost of these risks is
        evident in the results of the State of our Schools survey.11 Nearly nine in 10
        teachers (87%) said that the pandemic had impacted on their home of family life
        over the last 18 months and 83% said that it impacted on their personal morale at
        work, mirroring teacher’s views on overall workforce morale as presented above.
        84% of teachers said that teacher wellbeing has declined and 84% also said that
        teacher morale has declined, with 41% saying morale has significantly declined.

18 November 2022 - AEU submission to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on
Health, Aged Care and Sport Inquiry into Long COVID and Repeated CO VID Infections -
Annexure I

On 18 November 2022, the AEU made a submission to the House of Representatives Standing
Committee on Health, Aged Care and Sport Inquiry into Long COVID and Repeated COVID
Infections. The submission referred to current research regarding the prevalence of Long CO VID

7 Beames J, Christensen H and Werner-Seidler A, ‘School Teachers: The Forgotten Frontline Workers of COVID-
19’, Australian Psychiatry, April 2021, accessible here.
8 ABC News, ‘Victorian teachers lodge more workcover claims for impacts of coronavirus pandemic than any other
profession’, 10 August 2020, accessible here.
9 Di Blasi, et al, ‘Factors Related to Women’s Psychological Distress during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence from
a Two-Wave Longitudinal Study’, International Journal ofEnvironmental Research and Public Health, November
2021, accessible here.
10 Johnston R, Mohammed A, and van der Linden C, ‘Evidence of Exacerbated Gender Inequality in Child Care
Obligations in Canada and Australia during the COVID-19 Pandemic’, December 2020, Politics & Gender, 16:4, p
1131, accessible here.
11 Australian Education Union, State of Our Schools Survey 2021.

AEU Submission - Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                             6
among students in public education, and of the health and educational disadvantages experienced
by children with Long COVID. The AEU noted that inadequate, non-standardised public
education data collection practices fail to account for children with disability associated with Long
COVID.

Regarding exposure to and experience of Long COVID by public educators, the AEU noted that
“COVID-19 is a distinct workplace risk for teachers who spend hours each day in a single room
with up to thirty students who are a) more likely to be asymptomatic b) less likely to be tested
than the general population and c) particularly in primary schools and special education settings,
less likely to effectively socially distance or to make effective use of mitigating measures such as
masks.”12

Key impacts of COVID-19 on public education and educators

In addition to the direct health impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the pandemic highlighted and
exacerbated Australia’s education-related inequalities. The pandemic’s negative impacts were
amplified by the then Commonwealth Government’s decade-long failure to properly fund public
education, leading to education systems that, in addition to managing a pandemic, were forced to
do so while grappling with systematic underfunding, staff shortages, and students’ educational
disadvantages. Today, Australia’s public education systems continue to experience the harmful
effects of COVID-19, with hundreds of thousands of teachers and students still affected by
COVID-19 and Long COVID symptoms, with teachers burning out due to workload and work
intensification issues relating to students’ experiences of the pandemic, and with ongoing
vulnerability to the next pandemic due to failure to invest in transmission-reducing capital works.

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, at the intersection of public health and public education, it
is the AEU’s view that the Commonwealth Government failed to show national leadership.
Despite the national scale of the pandemic, and the shared issues confronting all public education
systems, public health and public education policymaking was devolved, ad hoc, to state and
territory governments. The subsequent Commonwealth Government’s interventions - including
confusing social distance guidelines, unclear vaccine rollouts, and delays in national school
recovery plans - caused confusion and anxiety in public education settings.

It is critically important that an enduring national approach to avoid, prepare for, minimise, and
respond to crises relating to the intersection of public health and public education is developed
Such an approach must centre public education voices - principals, teachers, students, and
communities. A new national approach must account for how social inequalities influence the way
Australians experience health and education, and it must provide for funding to rectify such
inequalities, including improving access to technology to facilitate the ability to leam remotely,
and ensuring that the built environment in education settings is modernised and safe. Regarding
the mental health harms experienced by education employees and students during the COVID-19
pandemic, a new national approach must recognise that all education employees and students are
placed under exceptional stress to ensure that high quality teaching and learning continues during
public health crises, and therefore all governments must accordingly provide for physical and
mental health support structures to support the delivery of public education in future crises.




12 Annexure I, p 8.

AEUSubmission - Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                      7
                                                                                      ANNEXURE A

                  Australian Education Union
IAEU1                                                                               Federal Office
                                                                                     Phone : +61
                                                                                      Fax: +61
  ONIO^                                                                            Email: J                    |
                                                                                    Web: www.aeufederal.org.au




 19 March 2020


The Hon Scott Morrison MP
Prime Minister
PO Box 6022
House of Representatives
Parliament House
Canberra ACT 2600


Dear Prime Minister Morrison

RE: COVID-19

The Australian Education Union is gravely concerned about the ongoing impact of COVID-
19 and the implementation of the decisions taken by the National Cabinet with respect to
preschools, schools and TAPE.

We note that the National Cabinet has accepted the advice of the Australian Health Protection
Principal Committee (AHPPC) that schools should remain open at this time, that pre-emptive
closures are not proportionate or effective as a public health intervention at this time and that
further restrictions on social gatherings are in place.

We note that the AHPPC has stated that school closures for shorter defined periods of time
may be considered as part of a suite of more stringent distancing measures. Further, that
schools should implement a range of other strategies to reduce transmission, including the
promotion of personal hygiene measures, frequent handwashing, reducing face to face
contact, cough etiquette, physical distancing, reducing public gatherings, reducing the mixing
of students, staggered lunchtimes and reduced after school activities and interschool activities.

We wish to raise the following matters for the urgent consideration of the National Cabinet
meeting on Friday 20th March 2020.

That:
   •    at all levels of government, Work, Health and Safety obligations to employees must be
        met
    •        identified risks and hazards must have the appropriate level of control to mitigate them
    •   the National Cabinet and health officials at both a national and state/territory level
        have provided insufficient information and assurance to teachers, support staff,
        educators, principals and the AEU about the implementation of COVID-19 decisions
        and indeed, the safety of workplaces for employees and students
    •   social distancing requires staff and students to keep a distance of 1.5 metres, a
        requirement which is practically impossible in the vast majority of public education
        settings across the nation
   •    the restrictions which have been placed on non-essential indoor gatherings of greater
        than 100 people have broad implications for public education settings across the
        country
   •    schools are reporting shortages of soap, alcohol-based sanitisers, toilet paper, tissues
        and infrastructure such as enough sinks and hygiene areas for staff and students to
        access frequently and systematically
    •    additional cleaning services must be implemented to ensure that all frequently
         touched surfaces and frequently used objects are cleaned and sanitized.
    •    there is widespread concern about the possibility of school closures but limited
         information available publicly on how such a decision would be made nationally
    •    the widespread community concern has already led to high levels of student absence
         in many states and territories
    •    working from home provisions must be immediately available to public education
         staff who are considered to be particularly vulnerable to COVID-19 due to their own
         or family members’ underlying health conditions. In particular, those who have
         chronic illnesses, are immunocompromised, fall into high-risk categories and
         pregnant staff.
    •    there are specific workplace health and safety expectations arising from the additional
         needs of a wide range of students with individual circumstances requiring adjustment
    •    specific detail must be provided about working in more complex environments such
         as supporting students and people who have disabilities, Aboriginal and Torres Strait
         Islander students, rural, regional and remote locations.
    •    maintenance of income including leave entitlements and leave arrangements must be
         guaranteed for all permanent, temporary and casual public education employees.
    •    we reject unrealistic expectations that alternative (virtual) learning episodes will be
         provided for students in the event that schools close - such expectations are
         inequitable in their impact particularly for students who come from low socio­
         economic backgrounds and regional and remote centres and unsustainable in an
         education system denied basic resources.


Given the deep ramifications for all public education employees and the 2.5 million students
in their care, we formally request that the National Cabinet immediately provides detailed
advice about how all public education settings are to minimise the risk to staff and students if
they are to remain open.

We expect that governments will directly advise the AEU, our members, parents and the
broader community about what actions they will take if the above safety measures cannot be
implemented.

Further, the AEU seeks an urgent briefing from the Chief Medical Officer or his
representative, and the Federal Minister for Education              to discuss our concerns. We
are happy to facilitate this meeting via video conferencing. Please contact
my office on                   or email to                              1° make the necessary
arrangements.


Yours sincerely
AEU Federal President                                 Branch Secretary
                                                      AEU ACT Branch




President                                             President
NSWTF Branch                                          AEU NT Branch




Kevin Bates
President                                             President
Queensland Teachers’ Union                            AEU SA Branch




President                                             President
AEU Tasmanian Branch                                  AEU Victorian Branch




President
SSTUWA


Cc     National Cabinet via Prime Minister’s office;
       Daniel Andrews, Premier of Victoria
       Gladys Berejiklian, Premier of New South Wales
       Annastacia Palaszczuk, Premier of Queensland
       Peter Gutwein, Premier of Tasmania
       Steven Marshall, Premier of South Australia
       Mark McGowan, Premier of Western Australia
       Michael Gunner, Chief Minister of the Northern Territory
       Andrew Bam, Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory

       Professor Brendan Murphy, Chief Medical Officer
       Dr Michelle Bruniges, Secretary of the Department of Education
       Dan Tehan, Minister for Education
       Tanya Plibersek, Shadow Minister for Education and Training
       Senator Mehreen Faruqi, Australian Greens
                                                                                                            ANNEXURE B

                    Australian Education Union
AEU                                                                                                   Federal Office
                                                                                                       Phone : +61
                                                                                                        Fax: +61
  CNIO^                                                                                              Email:
                                                                                                      Web: www.aeufederal.org.au




28 May 2020


Senator Katy Gallagher
Chair Select Committee COVID19
Department of the Senate
PO Box 6100
Parliament House
Canberra ACT 2600

Email: I


Dear Senator Gallagher


        Re: AEU Submission to the Senate Select Committee Inquiry into the Australian
                    Government’s Response to the COVID19 pandemic



Thank you for the opportunity to submit to the inquiry into the Australian Government’s
Response to the COVID19 pandemic.

Please find our submission attached.

Please contact me if you have any questions in relation to this submission.


Yours sincerely,




Federal Secretary




           An affiliate of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and Education International (EI)
                      Submission to the


             Senate Select Committee Inquiry into
         the Australian Government’s Response to the
                      CO VID 19 Pandemic



                          May 2020




                                 Australian Education Union
Federal President                PO Box 1158
                                 South Melbourne Vic 3205

Federal Secretary                 Telephone: +61 |
                                  Web:       www. aeufederal. or g. au
                                  E-mail:
Introduction

The Australian Education Union (AEU) represents over 189,000 educator members
employed in the public primary, secondary, early childhood and TAPE sectors throughout
Australia. The AEU members in all three sectors were at the frontline of the pandemic in
Australia and as such the Commonwealth Government’s response impacted on them
significantly. Thus we welcome the opportunity to present our views on the Australian
Government’s response to the pandemic.

We note that the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 heard evidence from the
Department of Education, Skills and Employment on May 19, 2020 and we have included our
consideration of that evidence in this submission.

Throughout this crisis the AEU has sought to work constructively with the Chief Medical
Officer and state and territory Chief Health and Medical Officers to ensure that the safety and
wellbeing of school staff and students is paramount.

This submission will address our views of the impact of the Australian Government’s
response on each of the school, early childhood education and TAPE sectors separately.
We will detail how the issues raised by the AEU were subsequently handled by the
Commonwealth Government and describe the measures that could have, and could still be
taken to ensure that public schools, early childhood education providers and TAFEs have the
support necessary to recover from the impacts of the pandemic and to assist with Australia’s
recovery.



Schools
From mid-March when cases of COVID-19 began rising swiftly and significantly in
Australia, the Commonwealth Government’s advice to teachers, school leaders and support
staff was inconsistent and coupled with often contradictory expectations. There was a lack of
early and clear communication for schools and this led to a high level of concern expressed
by our members about their health, wellbeing and safety.

At that point the National Cabinet had accepted the advice of the Australian Health Protection
Principal Committee (AHPPC) that schools should remain open, that pre-emptive closures
were not proportionate or effective as a public health intervention at that time. This led to
multiple contradictions with concurrent guidance on social distancing and restrictions on
gatherings, and revealed that the workplace health and safety of those working in schools had
not been considered.

In order to gain much needed clarity, on March 19th the AEU wrote to the Prime Minister,
(Appendix 1). The letter clearly outlined numerous issues for the urgent attention of the
National Cabinet, which are detailed as follows:

    •   at all levels of government, Work, Health and Safety obligations to employees must
        be met
    •   identified risks and hazards must have the appropriate level of control to mitigate
        them



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic   2
    •   the National Cabinet and health officials at both a national and state/territory level
        have provided insufficient information and assurance to teachers, support staff,
        educators, principals and the AEU about the implementation of COVID-19 decisions
        and indeed, the safety of workplaces for employees and students
    •   social distancing requires staff and students to keep a distance of 1.5 metres, a
        requirement which is practically impossible in the vast majority of public education
        settings across the nation
    •   the restrictions which have been placed on non-essential indoor gatherings of greater
        than 100 people have broad implications for public education settings across the
        country
    •   schools are reporting shortages of soap, alcohol-based sanitisers, toilet paper, tissues
        and infrastructure such as enough sinks and hygiene areas for staff and students to
        access frequently and systematically
    •   additional cleaning services must be implemented to ensure that all frequently
        touched surfaces and frequently used objects are cleaned and sanitized.
    •   there is widespread concern about the possibility of school closures but limited
        information available publicly on how such a decision would be made nationally
    •   the widespread community concern has already led to high levels of student absence
        in many states and territories
    •   working from home provisions must be immediately available to public education
        staff who are considered to be particularly vulnerable to COVID-19 due to their own
        or family members’ underlying health conditions. In particular, those who have
        chronic illnesses, are immunocompromised, fall into high-risk categories and
        pregnant staff.
    •   there are specific workplace health and safety expectations arising from the additional
        needs of a wide range of students with individual circumstances requiring adjustment
    •   specific detail must be provided about working in more complex environments such
        as supporting students and people who have disabilities, Aboriginal and Torres Strait
        Islander students, rural, regional and remote locations.
    •   maintenance of income including leave entitlements and leave arrangements must be
        guaranteed for all permanent, temporary and casual public education employees.
    •   we reject unrealistic expectations that alternative (virtual) learning episodes will be
        provided for students in the event that schools close - such expectations are
        inequitable in their impact particularly for students who come from low
        socioeconomic backgrounds and regional and remote centres and unsustainable in an
        education system denied basic resources.


Initial lack of clarity and delay

The concerns of AEU members outlined in the letter were not adequately addressed, or were
subject to delayed and heavily diluted action. The Commonwealth’s response and subsequent
actions were characterised by a serious lack of clarity. Political pronouncements were made
with little regard for practicality, for the jurisdictional independence of states and territories
and were followed by subsequent backpedalling which has caused significant anxiety and
confusion for the teaching profession.




AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic   3
The AEU also sought urgent meetings with the Education Minister and the Chief Medical
Officer. During these discussions, the AEU articulated the issues of concern during an
“emergency mode of operations for schools” and sought commitments for health and safety
guidelines for the teaching profession. Given the deep ramifications for all public education
employees and the 2.6 million students in their care, we formally requested that the National
Cabinet immediately provide detailed advice about how all public education settings were to
minimise the risk to staff and students if they were to remain open.

The National Cabinet gave a commitment that the AHPPC would develop such guidelines,
however it was four weeks later, on April 16 that the seven National Principles for School
Education were published. In that time, and even following the publication of the National
Principles, which clearly stated “State and Territory Governments and non-govemment sector
authorities are responsible for managing and making operational decisions for their school
systems respectively, subject to compliance with relevant funding agreements with the
Commonwealth”1, the Commonwealth Government was unable to muster a nationally
consistent approach and took a series of contradictory and confusing positions for social
distancing in schools, including that:

    •   social distancing is required in all public situations, but is not required to the same
        standard in schools;
    •   it is safe for children to be at schools because they have low chance of infection, are
        not vectors for Coronavirus, although it was considered unsafe for them to visit
        grandparents because of the risk of infection; and
    •   children can’t play on playground equipment in local parks but can play on equipment
        within their school.

Confusion and obfuscation on social distancing requirements in schools

Despite the State and Territory governments taking full responsibility for the decision making
about schools at a jurisdictional level following the issuing of the National Principles for
School Education, further confusion was caused by the Prime Minister’s frequently
contradictory public messages.

After first advocating for school closures, on April 14 the Prime Minister stated via a
recorded video message to teachers that “we cannot allow a situation where parents are
forced to choose between putting food on the table through their employment to support their
kids, and their kids’ education”. Following outcry from the teaching profession and the
public, and the publication of the National principles two days later, the Prime Minister then
reverted to confirming that the states and territories had ultimate control of the decisions
affecting schools.

On April 24 the Prime Minster publicly expressed a desire to see schools return to on-site
learning full time. Subsequently, and on the advice of the AHPPC the Commonwealth
Government issued updated guidance that social distancing was not “appropriate or practical




1 Australian Government Department of Education, Skills and Employment, COVID-19 National Principles for
School Education, retrieved from https://www.dese.gov.au/covid-19/schools/national-principles-for-school-
        on



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic            4
in classrooms or corridors”, despite it being still considered necessary for teachers working in
these same environments.

Evidence heard at the Senate Select Committee Hearing held on May 19 demonstrated how
this official advice appeared to change, not according to changing scientific advice, but
according to the Prime Minister’s desire to reopen schools. Senator Keneally asked the
following:

        Stakeholders have informed the opposition that the decision was made following a
        meeting between the education minister, the CMO and the heads ofsome school
        systems, where system heads advised the minister and the CMO that physical
        distancing was too difficult to enforce and couldn't be resourced. Can you confirm
        that?

The eventual response implied that the change in advice from the AHPPC on social
distancing in schools after the Prime Minister’s intervention of April 24 appeared to follow
from discussions between federal and state and territory public servants on the difficulty of
maintaining social distancing in schools, rather than being based on any change to medical or
scientific advice on the safety of abandoning the practice.2

The lack of consistency in the Commonwealth Government’s position on fully opening
schools peaked on May 3, when contrary to the Prime Minister’s assertion of jurisdictional
independence, the Federal Education Minister launched an extraordinary attack on the
Victorian Premier, accusing him of a “failure of leadership” before subsequently withdrawing
his statement.

The above examples demonstrate how in its response to COVID-19 in relation to schools, the
Commonwealth Government acted without regard to the teaching profession, or for the
clarity that was needed and repeatedly sought, and changed its position without regard for the
impact of its decisions and the statements of its Ministers on students, teachers, school
leaders, support staff, parents and wider school communities.

In relation to schools, the Commonwealth Government’s reaction to the pandemic could
easily lead the objective observer to deduce that the Government was more interested in using
the issue of schools in an attempt to score political points than it was in providing desperately
needed leadership and clarity to teachers, families and the public.



Putting the economy before people’s health

The Commonwealth Government claimed that its drive to return all students to the classroom,
regardless of their local circumstances and indeed the views of their state or territory Chief
Medical or Health Advisors, was based on health advice from the AHPPC. However, there




2Hansard, Senate Select Committee on COVID-19,19 May 2020, p.24, retrieved from
https://parlinfo.aph.gov.au/parllnfo/download/committees/commsen/25fdbd8a-a6dc-4b78-9fb2-
fa01684ea9eb/toc pdf/Senate%20Select%20Committee%20on%20CQVID-
19 2020 05 19 7726.pdf;fileType=application%2Fpdf#search=%22committees/commsen/25fdbd8a-a6dc-
4b78-9fb2-fa01684ea9eb/0000%22



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic   5
was significant concern from the public and from school communities that it in fact resulted
from the prioritisation of economic concerns over the population ’s health and welfare.

This concern was exacerbated at the Prime Minister’s press conference of May 5, where he
said of remote learning “It does impact on the productivity. Kids going back to school lifts
productivity, helps people get back to work and helps the economy get back on its feet.” This
was followed on May 8 by a statement that “there will be outbreaks, there will be more cases,
there will be setbacks... But we cannot allow our fear of going backwards from stopping us
from going forwards.”

Although recognising the “incredibly infectious” nature of Coronavirus, the Chief Medical
Officer has stated that children have a much lower risk of transmission. This position does
not seem to consider that according to paediatricians and epidemiologists school students,
and particularly young children, will also have increased levels of exposure through physical
proximity and play if in contact with a Coronavirus carrier.3 A recent study publicised in the
journal Science on age profile and susceptibility to infection, on how social distancing alters
age-specific contact patterns, and how these factors interact to affect transmission found that
although children may be around a third as susceptible as adults to the novel coronavirus,
children aged five to fifteen years also have three times as many close contacts, essentially
evening out the risk of infection.4 Additionally, a recent study by the Berlin Institute of
Virology has found that there is no significant difference between any pair of age categories
including children in viral load, and in particular indicated that viral loads in the very young
do not differ significantly from those of adults and that children may be as infectious as
adults.5

During the peak of transmission from mid-March to mid-April the Commonwealth
Government relied on a few small studies as evidence to support its position on school
closures. Most notably, a New South Wales study was repeatedly cited as to justify the
viability of restarting school based learning. That study was based on the monitoring of close
contacts of only 18 cases, included numerous caveats and was conducted at a time when most
students were not at school, having been encouraged by the Premier of New South Wales to
not attend for the final weeks of Term 1, followed by school holidays.

No strings attached assistance for private schools only

Throughout the pandemic the Commonwealth Government has continued to favour private
schools and has systematically excluded public schools from offers of assistance. The
Commonwealth Government offered independent schools early part-payment of their annual
funding, bringing 25% of total annual recurrent funding forward from July to May and June

3 Blyth,C., Cheng, A. & Bowen, A., "Worried about your child getting coronavirus? Here's what you need to
know". The Conversation, 2020, retrieved from https://theconversation.com/worried-about-your-child-
getting-coronavirus-heres-what-you-need-to-know-131909
4 Zhang, J., Litvinova, M., Liang, Y., Wang, Y. Wang, W., Zhao, S, Qianhui, W., Meier,S., Vboud, C., Vespignani,
A., Ajelli, & M, Hongjie, Y., "Changes in contact patterns shape the dynamics of the COVID-19 outbreak in
China", Science, April 2020, retrieved from
https://science.sciencemag.org/content/early/2020/05/04/science.abb8001.full
5 Jones., Muhlemann, B., Veith,T., Zuchowski, M., Hofmann, J., Stein,A., Edelmann, A., Corman, V, & Drosten, C,
"An analysis of SARS-CoV-2 viral load by patient age" retrieved from
https://zoonosen.charite.de/fileadmin/user upload/microsites/m cc05/virologie-
ccm/dateien upload/Weitere Dateien/analysis-of-SARS-CoV-2-viral-load-by-patient-age.pdf



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic               6
in exchange for committing to reopening schools for physical on site learning at the start of
term two. Approximately one quarter of non-government schools accepted this offer. The
select committee hearing of May 19 revealed that schools were eligible for early funding
regardless of whether they had experienced any liquidity issues. It also revealed that the
Commonwealth Government was not monitoring compliance with the terms of its offer to
bring forward recurrent funding to private schools and that schools were merely required to
provide a plan to reopen at the start of June, but not required to prove that they actually will.
Additionally, and importantly, this incentive to private schools was offered without
consideration for the protocols in place in the states and territories and in the case of Victoria
in direct contradiction and with flagrant disregard for the advice of the state’s Chief Health
Officer.

This assistance was followed by a further announcement of an additional $10 million in
funding for increased hygiene measures, again available to non-government schools only.
These arrangements further demonstrate the inequity of the Federal Governments’ treatment
of public schools, and its abdication of responsibility to public schools in its response to
COVID-19. The Federal Government has a significant recurrent funding responsibility to
public schools, and yet has, in its willingness to make alternative funding arrangements and
additional funds available to non-govemment schools only at a time when all schools are in
need, further entrenched the existing inequity in its treatment of public school students and
staff.

The impact of the Federal Government’s failings on schools

The Federal Government’s approach to schools during the COVID-19 pandemic has
repeatedly demonstrated a lack of concern for the health and wellbeing of students, teachers
and broader school communities. At times, this has descended into outright disdain for the
profession, as when the Chair of the House Standing Committee on Education, Employment
and Training encouraged parents to leave their children unattended at school and to call the
police if the principal refused to accept them.6 Instead of supporting teachers during this
crisis the government has ignored teachers concerns and attempted to shift the blame for its
poor response onto the teaching profession. This approach has severely impacted on teacher
morale during a time when they are working in very difficult circumstances.

A newfound concern for disadvantaged and vulnerable students

Federal Education Minister Tehan invoked the impact of remote learning on economically
disadvantaged and vulnerable students, stating that it “will be the vulnerable, poor, remote
and Indigenous students who suffer the most."7 The Minister is correct that an extended
period of remote learning under current funding arrangements and without additional and
targeted support would have impacted on vulnerable students disproportionally. However, his
assertion belies the fact that the coalition Commonwealth Government offered little support
for these students, offering only temporary cheaper access to NBN and leaving the provision
of ICT equipment to telecommunications companies, not for profit organisations and state

6 Retrieved from https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-04-30/government-mp-tells-parents-to-call-the-police-
coronavirus/12201938
7 Hunter, F, "Experts say half of students at risk from long-term remote learning" The Sydney Morning Herald,
May 2020, retrieved from https://www.smh.com.au/politics/federal/experts-say-half-of-students-at-risk-
from-long-term-remote-learning-20200502-p54p7m.html



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic                7
and territory governments. Further, the commonwealth and has for nearly seven years
steadfastly ignored their plight by failing to implement the original Gonski funding model
and by refusing to lift the arbitrarily imposed 20% cap on Commonwealth contributions to
recurrent funding for public schools.

The most recent PISA results demonstrate the growing gap between socio-economically
advantaged and disadvantaged students. The 2018 PISA results for Australia reveal that
students from low socio-economic status (SES) households are highly segregated from their
more advantaged peers and up to three years behind them:

    •   Australia’s isolation index score of 0.20 for disadvantaged students is higher than the
        OECD average of 0.17 and higher than 51 of the 78 countries and economies included
        in PISA. This means that disadvantaged students are more concentrated in schools
        with other disadvantaged students in Australia than in most countries in the OECD.
    •   Across all domains students from high SES backgrounds performed better than those
        from low SES backgrounds.
    •   The proportion of high performers increased and the proportion of low performers
        decreased with each increase in SES quartile.
    •   In science the variance between average scores of highest and lowest SES quartiles
        was 82 points, with 30 points equivalent to one year of schooling, so the difference is
        approximately two and three-quarters years of schooling.
    •   In reading the variance between average scores of highest and lowest SES quartiles
        was 89 points, with 30 points equivalent to one year of schooling, so the difference is
        three years of schooling.
    •   In maths the variance between average scores of highest and lowest SES quartiles was
        81 points, with 30 points equivalent to one year of schooling, so the difference is two
        and two-thirds years of schooling.8

 The vast inequity in the way that the Commonwealth distributes funding to schools means
that many students are not provided with the additional resources required to enable them to
overcome their disadvantage, resulting in an increasingly wide gap in achievement between
students from different backgrounds. Due to the 2017 Amendment to the Education Act, and
the subsequent National School Reform Agreements (NSRAs) the Commonwealth signed
with states and territories from late 2018 onwards, the ACT is now the only jurisdiction
where funding will reach 100% of the Schooling Resource Standard (SRS) for public schools
by 2023. Further 99% of public schools in Australia will not reach 100% of SRS, the
minimum required resource standard, by 2023.

Analysis of the impact of the 20% SRS cap on Commonwealth funding to public schools, in
combination with the state and territory funding arrangements set out in the bilateral
agreements shows that the total underfunding of public schools will reach $16.3 billion
during this Parliamentary term and $22.7 billion dollars by the conclusion of the NSRA and
its associated bilateral agreements in 2023.9



8 Thompson, S, De Bortoli L, Underwood C & Schmid, M. PISA 2018, PISA in Brief: Student Performance,
Australian Council for Educational Research, 2019, p.18
9 Cobbold, T, “Public Schools are Defrauded by Billions Under New Funding Agreements”, 2019,
retrieved from http://saveourschools.com.au/funding/public-schools-are-defrauded-bY-billions-under-new-
funding-agreements/



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic          8
Furthermore, in all jurisdictions except the ACT the bilateral agreements include an
additional provision that allows the states/territories to artificially boost funding for public
schools by incorporating various allowances into funding meant for recurrent school funding.
Over this term of Parliament this “additional expenditure” clause will deprive public school
students of an additional $6.2 billion in recurrent funding. To the conclusion of the
agreements in 2023 the total is $9.0 billion.

The total underfunding from the Commonwealth cap, the bilateral agreements and the
additional expenditure clause is $22.5 billion during this Parliament and $31.7 billion to the
conclusion of the agreements in 2023. The failure of the Commonwealth and state and
territory governments to meet the minimum funding standard means that on average every
public school in Australia will miss out on $8,700 per student in funding during this
parliament and $12,400 by the conclusion of the NSRAs in 2023.

Given the way the Morrison Government has systematically sought to deny the resources
necessary for those students already falling behind, the Minister’s sudden concern about the
impact that temporary remote learning may have on them seems disingenuous.

An immediate injection of funds to bring all public schools to 100% of SRS to repair the
billions of dollars that public schools are currently missing out on each year is urgently
required. Such an investment will not only assist schools in helping students who may have
fallen behind during the period of remote learning but will also bridge the huge equity and
achievement gaps between students from high and low SES households. Analysis has shown
that an increase in the average PISA score of 25 points delivers to the economy, through
improved skills, improved employment outcomes and reduced reliance on Commonwealth
assistance, an average of $65 billion per year, every year.10 An investment in public school
funding to achieve that improvement not only leads to better life outcomes for individual
students but enormous long term benefits to society, the economy and the entire country.

Th e way forward

The revised amount of $259 billion announced by the Commonwealth in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic has so far focused on supporting businesses and individuals during a
period of time when large parts of the economy have stopped entirely, but the Government’s
response has not yet entered the stimulus phase. Soon, a substantial economic stimulus
program will be necessary to pull Australia out of a pending sharp and unprecedented
downturn.

At around 20% of GDP Australia has incredibly low public debt by international standards.
Many advanced economies consistently carried net debt loads of over 100% of GDP prior to
the current pandemic, yet even with the additional debt expected to be accrued to fund
JobSeeker and JobKeeper Australia’s net debt is expected to reach only 26% of GDP, still
substantially lower than seven of the G8 nations. 11




10 Rorris, A., Australian Schooling - The Price of Failure and Reward for Success, 2016, p.6 retrieved from
http://www.aeufederal.org.au/application/files/3814/6172/5096/Rorris2016.pdf
11 Dawson, E. & Lloyd-Cape, M., Some Facts about Debt: A Per Capita Discussion Paper, 2020, p. 5.



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic              9
Despite the Treasurer’s assertion that “what we borrow today we will have to pay back
tomorrow”, the Prime Ministers’ claim that borrowing to stimulate the economy is somehow
akin to saving money on building a house and then “borrow[ing] the rest of the money to put
a heated swimming pool on the roof’12 and the frequent claims of those pushing austerity
measures, it is widely recognised by economists that government debt is in no way the same
as household debt and does not have be repaid in the same manner. The International
Monetary Fund has recently concluded that for advanced economies like Australia, so long as
GDP is growing faster than the interest rate, a large public debt is very sustainable. The size
of the debt is irrelevant, what matters is the debt service cost, and the current extended period
of historically unprecedented low interest rates is the perfect time to borrow to increase
Australia’s productive capacity. 13

If Australia is to recover and return to growth following the current economic shock, the
upcoming 2020 Budget will have to provide very significant stimulus. This stimulus should
be targeted where it can have the most immediate and long term impact. Thousands of public
primary and secondary schools across the country are in critical need of infrastructure
improvement and yet public schools do not have access to Commonwealth funds for capital
works. The AEU asserts that a guaranteed long term federally funded capital works package
is required to provide much needed improvements to public schools. In addition to providing
much needed new classrooms, bathrooms, libraries, heating and cooling and sport facilities,
an investment such as this, made when government borrowing is cheaper than ever, would
provide a huge amount of stimulus to Australia’s construction and manufacturing industries
and drive employment.

Total public school enrolments have increased by 263,534 students in the decade to 2018, an
increase of 10.3%, with the majority of this increase in primary school enrolments which will
soon flow through to all levels of schooling.14 In addition to improving the capacity of
existing public schools, new primary and secondary schools need to be built to accommodate
these students. A federally funded school building program will have enormous stimulus
value to the economy - it will provide immediate stimulus in terms of the construction and
manufacturing required to build new schools, and it will flow on to house building, retail
employment growth as communities congregate around these new schools.



Early Childhood Education

An opportunity to provide future certainty for preschools and parents

An extension of the Universal Access National Partnership (UANP) funding was announced
the same day as the childcare relief package and has now been guaranteed for another single
year to 2021. On May 26 the media reported that the review of the UANP commissioned by
Education Council has found that these short term renewals (six one year extensions to date)
of the agreement have adversely affected the scheme, but that despite the difficulty caused by
annual funding uncertainty the UANP has had led to “remarkable achievements” with


12 The Hon. Scott Morrison MP, Transcript, Q7A, National Press Club, ACT26 May 2020, p.7.
13 Dawson, E. & Lloyd-Cape, M, Op. cit. p. 8.
14 Australian Bureau of Statistics, 4221.0-Schools, Australia, 2018, retrieved from
https://www.abs.gov.au/AUSSTATS/abs(5).nsf/DetailsPage/4221.02018?OpenDocument



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic   10
enrolment in 600 hours of preschool in the year before school increasing from 12% in 2008 to
95% in 2018.15

However, as noted in reports of the review’s findings, the short term nature of this extension
means that preschools cannot currently plan and invest effectively - "this means, for example,
that good staff cannot be retained due to an inability to promise them longer-term
employment, which in turn leads to higher turnover and associated administrative
inefficiencies (in addition to affecting the quality of provision).”16 In addition to the benefits
that a long term funding arrangement would offer to preschools, offering funding stability
would provide families with ongoing certainty and confidence they need to re-engage with
the workforce at a time when, in the words of the Prime Minister - “we now need to get one
million Australians back to work - that is the curve we need to address”17

The AEU has long called on the Commonwealth Government to guarantee ongoing
permanent UANP funding for four year olds, and we endorse the reported finding of the
UANP review that “funding should be provided under a new five-year partnership starting in
2021, with ongoing national co-ordination by the federal government and reduced reliance on
performance-based payments.”18 We also support the reported recommendation that “a
stronger national agreement, potentially underpinned by legislation, should then be
introduced from 2026 and include more accountability for funding contributions by different
governments.”19

Australia lags behind much of the world when it comes to funding early childhood education.
World Bank data20 shows that in 2015, the vast majority of countries provide two or three
years of pre-primary education. While most countries around the world offer their children
two years of preschool as standard, Australia is one of only eleven countries to offer a single
year early childhood education.

Early childhood education (ECE) is an area where a small investment can have a huge long
term impact. A recent report by Price Waterhouse Coopers21 has shown that for every dollar
invested in early childhood education Australia could receive two dollars back through higher
tax revenues, higher wages and productivity and lower spending on welfare and criminal
justice. The report concludes that annual investment for Universal Access to early childhood
education generates double the invested amount in flow-on benefits to the economy.




15 Hunter, F., "COAG preschool review highlights 'adverse' effects of funding uncertainty", The Sydney Morning
Herald, May 26 2020, retrieved from https://www.smh.com.au/politics/federal/coag-preschool-review-
highlights-adverse-effects-of-funding-uncertainty-20200522-p54vjk.html
16 Hunter, F., Ibid.
17 Crowe, D., & Wright, S., "Morrison says open up the economy to recapture one million lost jobs", The Sydney
Morning Herald, May 5 2020, retrieved from https://www.smh.com.au/politics/federal/morrison-says-open-
up-the-economy-to-recapture-one-million-lost-jobs-20200505-p54qlv.html
18 Hunter, F., Op. cit.
19 Hunter, F., Op. cit.
20 The World Bank, Early Childhood Development, retrieved from
https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/earlychildhooddevelopment
21 The Front Project, A Smart Investment for a Smarter Australia: Economic analysis of universal early childhood
education in the year before school in Australia, June 2019, retrieved from
https://www.thefrontproiect.org.au/images/downloads/ECO ANALYSIS Full Report.pdf



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic             11
The educational and economic benefits of long term ECE funding for three and four year olds
are clear, and we call on the Federal Government to extend this provision to three year olds
nationally. We note that the UANP review found that two years of preschool is beneficial,
particularly for vulnerable and disadvantaged children. Now, as the economy restarts,
students return to school and parents go back to work, there is a prime opportunity to provide
exactly that certainly for ECE providers and for parents.,

The Commonwealth Government must guarantee in the October 2020 Budget five years of
funding for four year old preschool to 2026 as recommended in the UANP review report, and
must undertake to legislate to make that funding permanent from 2026. Further, the
Commonwealth must guarantee three year old preschool funding in the same way. The
annual total cost of these two measures would be around one third of one percent of the total
additional Commonwealth spending announced to support the economy in response to
COVID-19,22 and would provide many times that in flow on benefits in employment and
increased economic engagement of parents and carers, and improved long term outcomes for
children.



TAPE

Federalfunding to TAPE must be restored and guaranteed

For years prior to the current pandemic, the TAPE sector in Australia has existed in crisis,
and unless governments act urgently and decisively to restore the gradual and systematic
erosion of TAPE funding, its role in the Australian education system is under threat. The
Mitchell Institute has recently reported that Australia’s total investment in the VET sector is
now at its lowest level in real terms since at least 2008.23

Successive Australian governments have failed to address this systemic under-funding, and
recent market “reforms” have further damaged TAPE. Even before the current crisis the
Productivity Commission has said that the VET sector was a mess, echoing the concerns of
all major stakeholders and24 the Business Council of Australia warns that the residualisation
of TAPE will ‘fail to deliver a good long term outcome’. They argue that governments need
to define the role of the public provider in order to ‘maintain a sustainable TAPE network
across the country’.25

In 2018, states, territories and the Commonwealth spent a combined total of $6.1 billion on
vocational education, decrease of $135 million when compared to 2017. The Commonwealth
Government’s contribution to all vocational education fell by $326 million (10.6%) in that
single year and the NCVER has reported that Commonwealth Government contributions to
public VET delivery fell by more than double that total, by 23.2%, in 2018.26*TAPE has

22 Australian Government, Economic Response to the Coronavirus, retrieved from
https://treasurY.gov.au/coronavirus
23 http://www.mitchellinstitute.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Australian-lnvestment-in-Education-
VET.pdf
24 Productivity Commission 2017, Shifting the Dial: 5 Year Productivity Review, Report No. 84, Canberra p86
25 Business Council of Australia 2017, Future-proof: protecting Australians through education and skills,
Melbourne, Business Council of Australia, p. 77.
26 https://www.ncver.edu.au/research-and-statistics/publications/all-publications/government-funding-of-vet-
2C 3



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic         12
borne the brunt of this decline in spending as an ever increasing portion of government
funding is directed towards training and often non-accredited courses offered by private
Registered Training Organisations (RTOs).27

In addition to the wholesale shift of public funds from the TAPE sector to many, often small,
private for profit providers, the established TAPE and vocational education sector bears the
burden of being the lowest funded of all the education sectors in Australia. Prior to the most
recent cuts, funding was cut by more than 15% in the decade from 2007 to 2016 and
government expenditure declined by 31.5% over that time.28 This was swiftly followed by
another cut of $177 million in the 2017 federal budget and the further net cut to total funding
of $135 million in 2018. The damage inflicted on the sector, particularly as a result of
chronic underfunding and attempts at privatisation have eroded the viability of TAPE
colleges and undermined confidence in the system. As a result of this continual assault,
TAPE enrolments have declined steadily in recent years, from nearly 800,000 in 2015 to
680,000 in 2017.29
The number of government funded vocational education students has fallen by almost 17%
since 2012 across all jurisdictions, but in TAPE, student numbers have fallen by 25%, as all
states and territories endure cuts to campuses, courses and staff.30 Most recently, in 2018 the
total number of students enrolled in nationally-recognised programs (most frequently
delivered by TAPE) decreased by 5.9% to two million people in 2018, compared with 2017,
and decreased by 16.2% from 2015 to 2018. At the same time, students enrolled in subjects
not delivered as part of a nationally-recognised program (usually delivered by private
providers) increased by 4.9% to 2.5 million people in 2018, compared with 2017. Overall
VET student numbers have also decreased by 1.5% to 4.1 million people in 2018, compared
with 2017.

A strong TAPE sector is essential for a recovery

The Prime Minister has repeatedly stated his aim to get a million people back to work.
Therefore it stands to reason that his government should make sure they are properly
qualified and receive those qualifications from a high quality and consistent public provider,
TAPE. However, to date the Commonwealth Government response in relation to vocational
education has done nothing to recognise the integral part that TAPE must play in Australia’s
recovery.

In his address to the National Press Club on 26 May the Prime Minister referred to the
“complexity of a vocational educational system that is clunky and unresponsive to skills
demand... a funding system marred by inconsistency and incoherence with little
accountability” and complained of “a lack of visibility of the quality of providers”. He also
said “I’m very interested in investing more in a better system”.31 What he didn’t


27 National Centre for Vocational Education Research (2018), Total VET Students and Courses 2017: data slicer,
retrieved from https://www.ncver.edu.au/research-and-statistics/data/all-data/total-vet-students-and-
  jurses-201>     ta lie
28 Australian Education Union, (2018), Stop TAPE Cuts Manifesto, pl.
29National Centre for Vocational Education Research (2018), Government Funding of VET2017: data tables,
retrieved from https://www.ncver.edu.au/research-and-statistics/data/all-data/Government-funding-of-vet-
          a-    es
30 NCVER 2017, Students and Courses 2016, NCVER Adelaide Table 2
31 Press club speech may 26



AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic           13
acknowledge is that the overwhelming majority of inconsistent, non-accredited and poor
quality vocational education in Australia is conducted by a myriad of tiny private, for profit
RTOs. TAPE offers the highest quality of vocational education across all levels of
qualification, with nationally accredited programs, long standing industry links, and a highly
qualified and experienced workforce of professional teachers and a national network of
campus infrastructure. By contrast, the AEU has received reports that many private, for profit
RTOs have simply shut their doors in response to the pandemic, abandoning students at the
time that they need the greatest support.

Meaningless micro credentials and ripping up regulations will limit recovery

The Commonwealth Government’s priority has so far been to push to increase the provision
of free micro-credentials, marketed as a way for people to occupy themselves during the
COVID-19 crisis, often with no accredited qualifications attached. Further, the numerous
regulatory concessions made for Registered Training Organisations (RTOs) demonstrates the
Commonwealth Government’s preference for private for profit RTOs to expand provision.
This shows no willingness on the part of the Federal Government to recognise the importance
of TAPE in building a properly skilled and qualified workforce, or of the significant and long
standing industry links and substantial infrastructure that TAPE provides.

The rush to cut regulations and delay audits in response to the pandemic by the Australian
Skills Quality Authority (ASQA) will only serve to encourage private RTOs to cut corners to
seek increased profit, and combined with the rapid increase of non-accredited micro­
credentialed units of study, is nothing but a recipe for another disaster on the scale of VET-
FEE-HELP.

Instead, the Commonwealth Government has relied entirely on state and territory
governments to ensure the ongoing viability of TAFEs during this crisis, and the Prime
Minister has now stated that future federal contributions will be contingent on state and
territory funding. It cannot be left up to states/territories alone to provide additional COVID-
19 crisis funds to TAPE, if that is the case some jurisdictions will be protected through
significant support packages and others may lose their TAPE sector entirely. While some
states and territories, most notably Victoria, have provided significant support to their TAPE
institutes, the level of action has been variable across the country. A coordinated plan for
federal support to TAPE, to be delivered without ultimatums, is needed to ensure that TAPE
institutes are well placed to provide the training needed for the post COVID-19 recovery

Additionally, the lack of focus and concern for the gaining of long term skills gained and
employment is demonstrated by the proposed makeup of the emergency COVID-19
subcommittee of the Australian Industry and Skills Committee (AISC), which limits the
union movement to a single ex-officio position and includes no direct representation from the
TAPE sector.

The Commonwealth Government can still act to boost skills, qualifications and employment

In order to rebuild Australia’s economy and workforce a clear and strongly supported
national workforce strategy is required. This is particularly important for youth
employment. TAPE qualifications offer a clear pathway from school to a career, unlike those
gained through many private RTOs who may offer unaccredited fragments of qualifications,
often with minimal ongoing support, and who will see the Federal Government’s drive


AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic   14
towards micro credentials, coupled with a relaxation of regulation purely as an opportunity to
profit.

A true strategy for workforce renewal can only be achieved through the national support for
TAFEs, and by making use of TAFE’s longstanding partnerships with industry. It cannot be
left to private RTOs to rebuild Australia’s skills base.

The October 2020 Budget provides a unique opportunity for the Commonwealth to move
from the support of its economic response to COVID-19 to the stimulus phase and to
guarantee the future of Australia’s TAFEs. The AEU proposes that the Commonwealth
Government take the following steps to guide Australia, and particularly young Australians,
through the crisis:

    •   Launch a co-ordinated effort to put TAFE at the forefront of the recovery efforts
        through immediate increased federal funding support and investment in infrastructure,
        equipment, staffing and programs;
    •       Restore the more than $3 billion funding cut from TAFE and training since 2013;
    •   Implement targeted support for the public VET provider, guaranteeing a minimum of
        70% of all government VET funding to TAFE.




AEU Submission to the Inquiry into the Australian Government’s Response to the COVID 19 Pandemic   15
APPENDIX ONE
                  Australian Education Union
IAEU1                                                                               Federal Office
                                                                                     Phone : +61
                                                                                      Fax: +61
  cni(M                                                                            Email: J                    |
                                                                                    Web: www.aeufederal.org.au




 19 March 2020


The Hon Scott Morrison MP
Prime Minister
PO Box 6022
House of Representatives
Parliament House
Canberra ACT 2600


Dear Prime Minister Morrison

RE: COVID-19

The Australian Education Union is gravely concerned about the ongoing impact of COVID-
19 and the implementation of the decisions taken by the National Cabinet with respect to
preschools, schools and TAFE.

We note that the National Cabinet has accepted the advice of the Australian Health Protection
Principal Committee (AHPPC) that schools should remain open at this time, that pre-emptive
closures are not proportionate or effective as a public health intervention at this time and that
further restrictions on social gatherings are in place.

We note that the AHPPC has stated that school closures for shorter defined periods of time
may be considered as part of a suite of more stringent distancing measures. Further, that
schools should implement a range of other strategies to reduce transmission, including the
promotion of personal hygiene measures, frequent handwashing, reducing face to face
contact, cough etiquette, physical distancing, reducing public gatherings, reducing the mixing
of students, staggered lunchtimes and reduced after school activities and interschool activities.

We wish to raise the following matters for the urgent consideration of the National Cabinet
meeting on Friday 20th March 2020.

That:
   •    at all levels of government, Work, Health and Safety obligations to employees must be
        met
    •        identified risks and hazards must have the appropriate level of control to mitigate them
    •   the National Cabinet and health officials at both a national and state/territory level
        have provided insufficient information and assurance to teachers, support staff,
        educators, principals and the AEU about the implementation of COVID-19 decisions
        and indeed, the safety of workplaces for employees and students
    •   social distancing requires staff and students to keep a distance of 1.5 metres, a
        requirement which is practically impossible in the vast majority of public education
        settings across the nation
   •    the restrictions which have been placed on non-essential indoor gatherings of greater
        than 100 people have broad implications for public education settings across the
        country
   •    schools are reporting shortages of soap, alcohol-based sanitisers, toilet paper, tissues
        and infrastructure such as enough sinks and hygiene areas for staff and students to
        access frequently and systematically
    •    additional cleaning services must be implemented to ensure that all frequently
         touched surfaces and frequently used objects are cleaned and sanitized.
    •    there is widespread concern about the possibility of school closures but limited
         information available publicly on how such a decision would be made nationally
    •    the widespread community concern has already led to high levels of student absence
         in many states and territories
    •    working from home provisions must be immediately available to public education
         staff who are considered to be particularly vulnerable to COVID-19 due to their own
         or family members’ underlying health conditions. In particular, those who have
         chronic illnesses, are immunocompromised, fall into high-risk categories and
         pregnant staff.
    •    there are specific workplace health and safety expectations arising from the additional
         needs of a wide range of students with individual circumstances requiring adjustment
    •    specific detail must be provided about working in more complex environments such
         as supporting students and people who have disabilities, Aboriginal and Torres Strait
         Islander students, rural, regional and remote locations.
    •    maintenance of income including leave entitlements and leave arrangements must be
         guaranteed for all permanent, temporary and casual public education employees.
    •    we reject unrealistic expectations that alternative (virtual) learning episodes will be
         provided for students in the event that schools close - such expectations are
         inequitable in their impact particularly for students who come from low socio­
         economic backgrounds and regional and remote centres and unsustainable in an
         education system denied basic resources.


Given the deep ramifications for all public education employees and the 2.5 million students
in their care, we formally request that the National Cabinet immediately provides detailed
advice about how all public education settings are to minimise the risk to staff and students if
they are to remain open.

We expect that governments will directly advise the AEU, our members, parents and the
broader community about what actions they will take if the above safety measures cannot be
implemented.

Further, the AEU seeks an urgent briefing from the Chief Medical Officer or his
representative, and the Federal Minister for Education Dan Tehan to discuss our concerns. We
are happy to facilitate this meeting via video conferencing. Please contact                in
my office on                   or email to                             1° make the necessary
arrangements.


Yours sincerely
AEU Federal President                                 Branch Secretary
                                                      AEU ACT Branch




President                                             President
NSWTF Branch                                          AEU NT Branch




Kevin Bates
President                                             President
Queensland Teachers’ Union                            AEU SA Branch




President                                             President
AEU Tasmanian Branch                                  AEU Victorian Branch




SSTUWA


Cc     National Cabinet via Prime Minister’s office;
       Daniel Andrews, Premier of Victoria
       Gladys Berejiklian, Premier of New South Wales
       Annastacia Palaszczuk, Premier of Queensland
       Peter Gutwein, Premier of Tasmania
       Steven Marshall, Premier of South Australia
       Mark McGowan, Premier of Western Australia
       Michael Gunner, Chief Minister of the Northern Territory
       Andrew Bam, Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory

       Professor Brendan Murphy, Chief Medical Officer
       Dr Michelle Bruniges, Secretary of the Department of Education
       Dan Tehan, Minister for Education
       Tanya Plibersek, Shadow Minister for Education and Training
       Senator Mehreen Faruqi, Australian Greens
                                                              ANNEXUREC
             Barbara Preston Research




    Digital inclusion for all public
           school students

Home internet access, family income, remoteness, mobility,
   family type, English proficiency, disability, housing,
       Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander status,
       and the impact of the 2019-2020 bushfires


       A report prepared for the Australian Education Union




                         Barbara Preston
                              June 2020
                                 V 1.1
                        (see correction note p. iv)



            Barbara Preston Research | ABN I 8 142 854 599
                 21 Boobialla Street | O’Connor ACT 2602

                        ISBN 978-0-6482623-3-6
Contents
Introduction            ........................................................................................................................................................... 1

1.           The national picture...................................................................................................................................... 5

     1.1.          Access to internet at home: school type, family income, remoteness and mobility............................. 6

     1.2.          Family income......................................................................................................................................... 9

     1.3.          One parent families............................................................................................................................... 10

     1.4.          Home language and English proficiency.............................................................................................. 10

     1.5.          Disability ............................................................................................................................................. 11

     1.6.          Housing          ............................................................................................................................................. 11

     1.7.          Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students..................................................................................... 13

     1.8.          The impact of the 2019-2020 bushfires............................................................................................... 16

2.          State and territory summaries and internet access at home by statistical areas....................................... 18

     2.1.          New South Wales — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas............................... 18

     2.2.          Victoria — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas............................................... 22

     2.3.          Queensland — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas......................................... 25

     2.4.          South Australia — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas................................... 28

     2.5.          Western Australia — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas............................... 31

     2.6.          Tasmania —summary and internet access at home by statistical areas............................................. 34

     2.7.          Northern Territory — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas.............................. 37

     2.8.          Australian Capital Territory — summary and internet access at home by statistical areas................40

Technical notes......................................................................................................................................................... 43

References              ......................................................................................................................................................... 44



List of tables

Table 1.        Number of primary, secondary and all public school students, states, territories and Australia, 2016 ...5

Table 2.        Percentage of all primary and secondary students in each state, territory and Australia, in public,
                Catholic and independent primary, 2016................................................................................. 5

Table3.         Public, Catholic and independent school students in each type of area classified by remoteness,
                Australia, 2016......................................................................................................................................... 6

Table 4.        Percentage of students without internet access at home, public, Catholic and independent schools,
                states, territories and Australia, 2016..................................................................................... 7

Table 5.        Number of primary, secondary and all public school students without internet access at home, states,
                territories and Australia, 2016................................................................................................ 7

Table 6.        Percentage of primary, secondary and all public school students without internet access at home, states,
                territories and Australia, 2016................................................................................................ 8

Table 7.        Internet access at home, public school students in each type of area classified by remoteness, Australia,
                2016.......................................................................................................................................... 8
Tables.         Public school students in LOW, MEDIUM and HIGH income families, by usual address one year
                previously and internet access at home, Australia, 2016........................................................ 9

Table 9.        Percentage of students in LOW income families, public, Catholic and independent schools, states,
                territories and Australia, 2016................................................................................................. 9


  Barbara Preston Research                                                        - ii -                Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 10. Percentage of students in very low income families, public, Catholic and independent schools, states,
          territories and Australia, 2016............................................................................................... 10

Table 11. Percentage of students in one parent families, public, Catholic and independent schools, states,
          territories and Australia, 2016............................................................................................... 10

Table 12. Percentage of primary and secondary public school students who speak a language other than English
          at home, and of those, who speak English not well or not at all, states, territories and Australia, 2016
          ................................................................................................................................................ 11

Table 13. Percentage of students who need assistance with core activities, public, Catholic and independent
          schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016..................................................................... 11
Table 14. Percentage of students in rented housing, public, Catholic and independent schools, states, territories
          and Australia, 2016................................................................................................................ 12

Table 15. Percentage of students in rented housing without internet access from home, public, Catholic,
          independent and all schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016..................................... 12
Table 16. Percentage of students in unsuitable housing, public, Catholic and independent schools, states,
          territories and Australia, 2016............................................................................................... 12

Table 17. Percentage of students in unsuitable housing without internet access from home, public, Catholic and
          independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016................................................ 13

Table 18. Percentage of public school students in dwellings with six or more, seven or more, or eight or more
          persons usually resident, states and territories and Australia, 2016..................................... 13
Table 19. Percentage of students who are Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander, public, Catholic and independent
          schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016...................................................................... 14
Table 20. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students without internet access at home, public,
          Catholic and independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016............................ 14

Table 21. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in LOW income families, public, Catholic
          and independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016......................................... 15
Table 22. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in unsuitable housing, public, Catholic and
          independent schools, states and territories and Australia, 2016.......................................... 15
Table 23. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school students, in dwellings with six or more,
          seven or more, or eight or more persons usually resident, states and territories and Australia, 2016 .15

Table 24.       Public school students'internet access from home, New South Wales, SA4.........................................20

Table 25.       Public school students'internet access from home, Victoria, SA4, 2016...............................................23

Table 26.       Public school students'internet access from home, Queensland, SA4, 2016........................................ 26

Table 27.       Public school students'internet access from home, South Australia, SA4 and SA3, 2016.................... 29

Table 28.       Public school students'internet access from home, Western Australia, SA4 and SA3, 2016................ 32

Table 29.       Public school students'internet access from home, Tasmania SA3, 2016............................................ 35
Table 30.       Public school students'internet access from home, Northern Territory, SA3, 2016............................. 38

Table 31.       Public school students'internet access from home, Australian Capital Territory, SA3, 2016............... 41



List of figures

Figure 1      Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, New South Wales, SA4, 2016. (Source:
              Table 24)                                                                                         21

Figure 2      Number of public school students not accessing the internet, New South Wales SA4, 2016 (Source Table
              24)............................................................................................................................................................ 21




  Barbara Preston Research                                                      - ill -              Digital inclusion for all public school students
Figure 3       Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, Victoria, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 25)
               ................................................................................................................................................. 24

Figure 4       Number of public school students not accessing the internet, Victoria, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 25) 24

Figure 5       Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, Queensland, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table
               26)........................................................................................................................................... 27

Figure 6       Number of public school students not accessing the internet, Queensland, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 26)
               ................................................................................................................................................. 27

Figure 7       Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, South Australia (non-metro), SA3, 2016
               (Source: Table 27)................................................................................................................. 30
Figure 8       Number of public school students not accessing the internet, South Australia (non-metro), SA3, 2016
               (Source: Table 27)................................................................................................................. 30

Figure 9       Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, Western Australia (non-metro), SA3,
               2016 (Source Table 28).......................................................................................................... 33

Figure 10 Number of public school students not accessing the internet, Western Australia (non-metro), SA3, 2016
          (Source: Table 28)................................................................................................................. 33

Figure 11 Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, Tasmania, SA3,2016 (Source: Table 29)
          ................................................................................................................................................. 36

Figure 12 Number of public school students not accessing the internet, Tasmania, SA3, 2016 (Source: Table 29)
          ................................................................................................................................................. 36

Figure 13 Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, Northern Territory, SA3, 2016 (Source:
          Table 30)................................................................................................................................................. 39
Figure 14 Number of public school students not accessing the internet, Norther Territory, SA3, 2016 (Source:
          Table 30)................................................................................................................................................. 39

Figure 15 Percentage of public school students not accessing the internet, Australian Capital Territory, SA3, 2016
          Source: Table 30).................................................................................................................................... 42
Figure 16     Number of public school students not accessing the internet, Australian Capital Territory, SA3,
         2016 (Source: Table 30)......................................................................................................... 42




Correction note

V 1.1 corrects the previous version in which data on English proficiency were misclassified. Section 1.4 on home
language and English proficiency and other references to the topic have been corrected.




  Barbara Preston Research                                                   - iv -              Digital inclusion for all public school students
 Introduction

 Government and family responses to COVID-19 resulted in a swift change in learning
 arrangements for public school students, including the rapid provision of schooling by remote
 modes. This was much more difficult for some students than for others. Justin Reich, director
 of the Teaching Systems Lab at MIT, writing in response to plans by many school authorities
 in the US to move to online learning because of COVID-19, noted that:

           A growing body of evidence suggests that online learning works least well for our
           most vulnerable learners. If you are going online, the number one question is not:
           "What tech to use to teach online?" It should be: "How will you support your most
           struggling students?" (Reich, 2020, 12 March)

 The sudden shift to remote learning brought into sharp focus the critically important, but
 often overlooked, problem of the lack of digital inclusion for many students. Access to the
 internet, and appropriate hardware, software and content are necessary, but not sufficient.
 Telstra provided 20,000 students and teachers with internet access to educational content
 (Ebeid, 2020, 7 April), the NBN offered at least $50 million to assist with remote schooling for
 low income families (Cormann & Fletcher, 2020, 17 April), and other providers also gave
 support to low income families of school children. This was welcome. However, it is unlikely
 that these measures were sufficient to provide full internet access to the approximately
 125,000 Australian students who did not have internet access at home (including via mobile
 devices or games consoles) in 2016 (see Section 1.1), and not enough to provide adequate
 internet access and affordability to the over one million public school students in the bottom
 third of family incomes (almost 1,400,000 students if those at Catholic and independent
 schools are included), and, more particularly, the almost 325,000 public school students in
 very low income families (just over 400,000 in total) (see Section 1.2). Even if such
 contributions did ensure adequate access and affordability, vulnerable students need full
 digital inclusion.

 The Australian Digital Inclusion Index (ADII) covers three aspects: access, affordability and
 digital ability (Thomas et al., 2019). Digital ability includes enthusiasm, confidence and a sense
 of control when using the internet, as well as experience, skills and knowledge in internet use
 (see Box 1). For vulnerable students (and their families and carers), this does not happen
 automatically, even if the students have experience with information and communication
 technology at school. "Digital Inclusion requires intentional strategies and investments to
 reduce and eliminate historical, institutional and structural barriers to access and use
 technology", according to the US National Digital Inclusion Alliance (see Box 2).

 Those with low digital inclusion, according to Thomas et al, include very low income
 households (Q5 - similar in amount to very low family incomes in this report), those who only
 access the internet via mobile devices, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians,


Barbara Preston Research                    - 1 -            Digital inclusion for all public school students
as well as adults with less than secondary education and those not in the labour force
(Thomas, et al., 2019, p. 5)—which includes many public school students' parents or carers.




                               Box 1. The Australian Digital Inclusion Index
  The Australian Digital Inclusion Index has three sub-indices, each made up of various
   components, which are in turn built up from underlying variables (survey questions).
  The Access sub-index has three components:
              • Internet Access: frequency, places, and number of access points
              • Internet Technology: computers, mobile phones, mobile broadband, and fixed
              broadband
              • Internet Data Allowance: mobile and fixed internet.
  The Affordability sub-index has two components:
              • Relative Expenditure: share of household income spent on internet access
              • Value of Expenditure: total internet data allowance per dollar of expenditure.
  The Digital Ability sub-index has three components:
              • Attitudes: including notions of control, enthusiasm, learning, and confidence
              • Basic Skills: including mobile phone, banking, shopping, community, and information
              skills
              • Activities: including accessing content, communication, transactions, commerce,
              media, and information.
   — Measuring Australia's Digital Divide: The Australian Digital Inclusion Index 2019 (Thomas, et
   al., 2019), p. 10




                                            Box 2. Digital inclusion
      Digital Inclusion refers to the activities necessary to ensure that all individuals and
    communities, including the most disadvantaged, have access to and use of information and
    communication technologies (ICTs). This includes 5 elements: 1) affordable, robust broadband
    internet service; 2) internet-enabled devices that meet the needs of the user; 3) access to
    digital literacy training; 4) quality technical support; and 5) applications and online content
    designed to enable and encourage self-sufficiency, participation and collaboration. Digital
    Inclusion must evolve as technology advances. Digital Inclusion requires intentional strategies
    and investments to reduce and eliminate historical, institutional and structural barriers to
    access and use technology. ”
    — National Digital Inclusion Alliance (2020)




Even if students and their families have full digital inclusion, there are other reasons why
remote learning was difficult or impossible for many students during the period of school
closure related to COVID-19, and would be in similar circumstances in the future. These


 Barbara Preston Research                             - 2 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
reasons include household stress and domestic violence (in many cases arising from new
circumstances of sudden unemployment and isolation at home, even if employed (Taub,
2020, 6 April)), overcrowded or insecure housing, and lack of proficiency in English.

The data set out in this report is intended to help inform policies to permanently address the
digital inclusion gap that was highlighted by the need to urgently deploy remote learning
solutions during April and May 2020. This will help ensure that vulnerable students receive
the same quality education as their advantaged peers who have ready access to the
equipment and home environment to support their learning. Addressing the digital inclusion
gap would involve tailored school-based programs, and the provision of hardware, software
and tailored support for school work and study at home—involving care-givers as well as the
students themselves. The report documents student characteristics that tend to result in a
lack of digital inclusion, and is intended to help identify the numbers and, to some extent,
general locations of vulnerable students.

It is important to recognise that the data used in this report identifies the persistent long term
gap in access to the necessary resources experienced by many students. The disruption to
regular schooling caused by COVID-19 was not the cause of the issue, but served to illuminate
the severity of the existing structural problem.

This report does not provide research and information to inform remote learning practice—
for such material see, for example, the Australian Institute for Teaching and School
Leadership's Spotlight: What Works in Online/Distance Teaching and Learning? (2020)

The analysis is based on data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) 2016 Census of
Population and Housing, accessed via the online TableBuilder portal (ABS, 2017). The ABS
Census undercounts school students, especially low income and Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander students, and the undercount is greater when a number of variables are combined
(such as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander status, family income and internet access at
home). The Census undercount is briefly outlined in the Technical Notes in this report, and
discussed and calculated in the Technical Notes in the companion report (Preston, 2018 - see
below). The ABS Schools Australia annual statistical report (2020) provides a more accurate
count of Australian student numbers. For example, according to Schools Australia (2020),
public school students were 65% of all students in 2016, not 63%, as Census data indicates.
The Census undercounted public, Catholic and independent school students by 14%, 6% and
6% respectively. The public sector's share of enrolments had increased to 66% in 2019, and
the number of students in public schools had increased over those three years by more than
4% from 2,483,802 to 2,594,830. In this report an estimate of the magnitude of the Census
undercount is provided in notes to tables where relevant.

The data and analysis in this report is primarily concerned with, first, access to the internet
from home, and, second, indicators of possible lack of support and facilities at home that are
conducive to home study and school work—family income, family structure, English
proficiency, disability, and housing. There is additional detail concerned with the
circumstances of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students. There is also a section on the

 Barbara Preston Research                     - 3 -       Digital inclusion for all public school students
impact and implications of the 2019-2020 bushfires. All these factors were highlighted as
areas of concern for disadvantaged students during the recent period of remote learning, but
COVID-19 merely exacerbated pre-existing disadvantage which requires urgent and ongoing
attention to ensure that all students have access to the tools needed to engage positively
throughout their schooling.

The national data is mostly provided for public, Catholic and independent schools in each
state and territory so that the circumstances of public schools can be considered in context.

This short report is a companion to the more detailed 2018 report, also based on 2016 Census
data, The social make-up of schools: Family income, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
status, family type, religion, languages spoken, disability, home internet access, housing
tenure, and geographic mobility of students in public, Catholic and independent schools
(Preston, 2018)—refer to that report for additional data and analysis, and technical
information on data sources, interpretation, classifications and quality. It can be accessed at
http://www.aeufederal.org.au/application/files/7115/2090/2405/Preston2018.pdf .




 Barbara Preston Research                   -4-         Digital inclusion for all public school students
1. The national picture

In 2016 there were more than two million students in Australian schools, and almost two
thirds were in public schools (see comments on the Census undercount in the Introduction).
The Census data showed that the public sector share was least in Victoria and Western
Australia, and greatest in Tasmania Northern Territory. The public sector share was greater
at the primary than the secondary level (Tables 1 and 2).

The public sector share was less in the major cities than in regional and remote areas. In the
major cities (where 71% of all students were located) the public sector share was 62%, and
the share increases to 70% in outer regional, 74% in remote, and 85% in very remote (Table
3).
Table 1.         Number of primary, secondary and all public school students, states,
                 territories and Australia, 2016

                     NSW              Vic          Qld           SA            WA           Tas             NT      ACT Australia

  Primary         417 410       313 221      277 143         94 327      145 111        31 181           15 398   20 662 1 314 445

  Secondary       269 287       201 113      176 165         52 661          88 190     17 966            8 288   13 613     827 267

  Total           686 697       514 334      453 308       146 988       233 301        49 147           23 686   34 275 2 141 712

  % of Aust.           32%          24%            21%           7%            11%           2%             1%        2%        100%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP
Note: The ABS Census undercounts school students by 11% (public schools by 14%, Catholic schools by 6%, and independent schools by 6%).




Table 2.         Percentage of all primary and secondary students in each state,
                 territory and Australia, in public, Catholic and independent primary,
                 2016

                               NSW           Vic         Qld            SA       WA          Tas            NT     ACT     Australia
                                                                 Primary
  Public                        69%         67%          69%         66%         69%         71%           75%     63%            68%
  Catholic                      20%         22%          18%          18%        18%         18%           13%     25%            20%
  Independent                   11%          11%         13%          16%        13%         10%           13%     12%            12%

                                                               Secondary
  Public                        58%         55%          59%         57%         56%         61%           63%     56%            57%
  Catholic                      25%         24%          21%         21%         22%         22%           16%     26%            23%
  Independent                   17%         20%          20%         23%         22%         16%           21%     17%            19%

                                                               All schools
  Public                        64%         62%          65%         62%         64%         67%           70%     60%            63%
  Catholic                      22%         23%          20%          19%        19%         20%           14%     25%            21%
  Independent                   14%          15%         16%          18%        17%         13%           16%     14%            15%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP




 Barbara Preston Research                                       - 5 -            Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 3.          Public, Catholic and independent school students in each type of
                  area classified by remoteness, Australia, 2016

                               Major               Inner              Outer
                                                                                     Remote Very remote                        Total
                                cities         regional           regional
  Public                   1 483 556            403 882            201 585              29 652             22 471         2 141 146
 Catholic                    512 916            137 300               59 208             7 026              2 447           718 897
 Independent                 391 547              88 280              27 582             3 123              1503            512 035
 All schools               2 388 025            629 448            288 394              39 804             26 431         3 372 102
 % of Total                       71%                19%                 9%                 1%                 1%              100%

                                   Percentage of students in each remoteness area type
                                   who are in public, Catholic and independent schools
  Public                          62%                64%                70%                74%                85%                63%
 Catholic                         21%                22%                21%                18%                 9%                21%
 Independent                      16%                14%                10%                 8%                 6%                15%
 All schools                    100%               100%                100%              100%               100%               100%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Remoteness Areas RA
Note: The ABS Census undercounts school students by 11% (public schools by 14%, Catholic schools by 6%, and independent schools by 6%)




           1.1.      Access to internet at home: school type, family income,
                     remoteness and mobility

Around 125,000 public school students (adjusted for the Census undercount) lived in
dwellings that were reported to have no internet access in 2016 (Table 5). This includes
internet access via smart phones (3G/4G), gaming consoles and smart TVs, as well as other
means (see Technical Notes at the end of this document for the wording of the Census
questionnaire item). The breadth of this definition and the inadequacy of many such devices
for educational purposes need to be considered when interpreting this data. The report on
the Australian Digital Inclusion Index (ADII) 2019 noted that:

            More than four million Australians access the internet solely through a mobile connection -
            this means they have a mobile phone or mobile broadband device with a data allowance,
            but no fixed connection. In 2019, mobile-only users have an ADII score of 43.7, some 18.2
            points lower than the national average (61.9). Being mobile-only not only diminishes Access,
            but also impacts on the Affordability and Digital Ability aspects of digital inclusion. Mobile-
            only use is linked with socio-economic factors, with people in the lowest household income
            quintile (30.7%), those with low levels of education (28.0%), and the unemployed (25.3%)
            more likely to be mobile-only (Thomas, et al., 2019, p. 6)

There has been a continued rollout of the NBN since 2016, and fixed broadband (and
equivalent) providers facilitated connectivity to thousands of students in the context of
COVID-19. This assisted in overcoming gaps in access and affordability in the ADII, but
students still lacked digital ability because they and their parents and carers had not had



 Barbara Preston Research                                      -6 -            Digital inclusion for all public school students
extensive internet experience, developing skills and confidence. They are very disadvantaged
relative to their peers who have had broadband internet at home for some time.

Poverty continues to be a limitation on access to the internet, from data plans for smart
phones, to installed broadband connections. While the roll-out of the NBN continued after
the collection of 2016 Census data, the trend has been for an increasing percentage of
Australian children to be living in poverty (Davidson, Saunders, Bradbury, & Wong, 2020) with
around 17% of Australian children living in poverty in 2017 (p. 9). Thus, even if the NBN or
other internet provision was available in a locality, it would tend not to be affordable by those
living in poverty, and not a priority for many living close to poverty or in unstable housing.

Section 2 provides tables and maps of the numbers and percentages of public school students
without access to the internet at home in 2016 in statistical areas in the states and territories.

Public school students were more than twice as likely as either Catholic or independent school
students to have no internet access at home in 2016 (Table 4).

Table 4.         Percentage of students without internet access at home, public,
                 Catholic and independent schools, states, territories and Australia,
                 2016

                               NSW           Vic         Qld            SA       WA          Tas          NT        ACT        Australia

  Public                          5%          4%          6%            6%        5%          7%         22%          2%             5%

  Catholic                        2%          2%          2%            2%        2%          3%         14%          1%             2%

  Independent                     2%          2%          2%            2%        2%          2%          7%          1%             2%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Internet access NEDD




Table 5.         Number of primary, secondary and all public school students
                 without internet access at home, states, territories and Australia,
                 2016

                               NSW           Vic         Qld            SA       WA          Tas          NT        ACT        Australia
  Primary                    20 758      11 715      17 103        5 470       7 603       2 295       3 417         527          68 887

  Secondary                  12 385        7 104       9 541       2 882       4 439       1210        1 511         299          39 375

  All public schools         33 142      18 819      26 641        8 358     12 040        3 507       4 925         831         108 263

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Internet access NEDD

Note: The ABS Census undercounts public school students by internet access data by 15%. Thus the actual number without internet access
at home in 2016 would have been around 125,000.




Public school primary students were more likely than secondary students to have no internet
access at home. Students in the ACT, Victoria and then NSW were the least likely to have no
internet access at home, while those in the NT then Tasmania were most likely to have no
internet access at home (Table 6). While primary students were less likely than secondary
students to have access to the internet at home, the difference was not great.


 Barbara Preston Research                                       - 7 -            Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 6.         Percentage of primary, secondary and all public school students
                 without internet access at home, states, territories and Australia,
                 2016

                               NSW           Vic         Qld           SA        WA          Tas          NT        ACT        Australia

  Primary                      5.1%        3.8%         6.3%        5.9%        5.3%        7.5%      22.9%         2.6%            5.3%
  Secondary                    4.7%        3.6%         5.5%        5.6%        5.2%        6.9%      19.2%         2.2%            4.9%
  All public schools           4.9%        3.7%         6.0%        5.8%        5.3%        7.3%      21.6%         2.5%            5.1%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Internet access NEDD




Public school students living in remote areas were much more likely to have no internet access
at home - almost a third of the more than 20,000 living in very remote areas had no internet
access at home (Table 7).

Table 7.         Internet access at home, public school students in each type of area
                 classified by remoteness, Australia, 2016

                                                        Inner               Outer                               Very
                             Major cites                                                 Remote                                Australia
                                                    regional           regional                             remote

 Internet access                  1 404 787           372 258            178 295            25 201             14 674           1 995 215
 No internet access                   55 669            24 812              17 378            3 509             6 891            108 259
 Total                            1 460 435           397 077            195 678            28 705             21 550           2 103 445
 No internet access
 as % of all in area                      4%                6%                 9%               12%               32%                 5%
 type
Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Internet access NEDD
Note: The ABS Census undercounts public school students by internet access data by 15%.




Family income and mobility affect access to the internet at home (Table 8). Public school
students with LOW family incomes were more likely to have moved in the past year than
students with HIGH family incomes (that is, family income in roughly the top third of family
incomes of all Australian school students): 19% of LOW family income of lived elsewhere a
year earlier, while only 11% of HIGH family income students lived elsewhere a year earlier.

Nine percent of students with LOW family incomes have no internet access at home, while
only 1% of students with HIGH family incomes did not have access to the internet at home.
While 4% of students who had the same residential address as a year ago had no internet at
home, around double that percentage of students who lived elsewhere a year earlier had no
internet at home. Students with LOW family incomes who lived elsewhere a year early were
most likely to have no access to the internet at home (11% compared with just 1% of HIGH
family income students who had not moved)




 Barbara Preston Research                                        -8-             Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 8.         Public school students in LOW, MEDIUM and HIGH income families,
                 by usual address one year previously and internet access at home,
                 Australia, 2016

                                             Same              Elsewhere in                       Overseas
                                        as in 2016          Australia in 2015                      in 2015

                  Percentage of students in each family income range by usual address one year ago
 LOW                                            81%                         17%                          2%                       100%
 MEDIUM                                         86%                         13%                          1%                       100%
 HIGH                                           89%                         10%                          1%                       100%

                 Percentage of students without internet access at home by family income range and
                                            usual address one year ago
 LOW                                               8%                       11%                        11%                           9%
 MEDIUM                                            2%                        4%                          4%                          2%
 HIGH                                              1%                        2%                          2%                          1%
 All family income ranges                          4%                        7%                          8%                          5%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Usual Address One Year Ago Indicator UAI1; Family Income FINP; Internet access
NEDD




                 1.2.      Family income

Public school students were much more likely than Catholic or independent school students
to have LOW family incomes (that is, family incomes in roughly the bottom third of family
incomes of all Australian school students) or very low family incomes (Tables 9 and 10). Using
the more accurate ABS Schools Australia (2020) data for 2016, and the percentages in the
following tables, in 2016 there were over a million public school students in LOW income
families (almost 1,400,000 including Catholic and independent school students), and almost
325,000 public school students in very low income families (just over 400,000 in total).

Low family income is associated with many factors that make studying at home more difficult.
These include a lack of internet access and a lack of appropriate software and hardware,
generally less well-educated parents who can help with school work at home, overcrowded
or insecure housing without a regular place to carry out school work undisturbed, and the
psychological stresses on family members arising out of financial stress and a lack of
resources.

Table 9.         Percentage of students in LOW income families, public, Catholic and
                 independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016

                              NSW            Vic        Qld            SA       WA          Tas          NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                        42%         43%         46%         50%         38%         53%         44%         26%            43%
  Catholic                      25%         29%         23%         31%         22%         32%         33%         12%            26%
  Independent                   25%         25%         25%         27%         22%         29%         15%         10%            24%

LOW family incomes are incomes in the approximate bottom third of the family incomes of all Australian school students in 2016: a weekly
income of less than $1,500
Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Family Income FINF



 Barbara Preston Research                                       -9 -            Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 10. Percentage of students in very low income families, public, Catholic
                 and independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW           Vic         Qld          SA         WA          Tas          NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                        12%         13%         13%          15%         12%         16%         18%          8%            13%
  Catholic                        6%          7%          5%          8%          6%          7%         13%          3%              6%
  Independent                     7%          7%          7%          7%          7%          7%          5%          2%              7%

Very low family incomes are weekly incomes of less than $650 in 2016. This is below the 2016 September quarter poverty line of a single
working parent with one child ($661), or a couple not in the workforce with one child ($731) (Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and
Social Research, 2016)

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Family Income FINF




                 1.3.       One parent families

Single parents have demands on their time and often lack resources necessary to provide
effective support for students, whether undertaking school work from home as in the recent
period of home learning, or assisting with homework and study generally. Almost a quarter
of public school students live in one parent families, compared with 15% of Catholic school
students and 13% of independent school students (Table 11).

Table 11. Percentage of students in one parent families, public, Catholic and
                 independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW           Vic         Qld          SA         WA          Tas          NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                        23%         22%         26%         25%         21%          27%         24%         20%            23%
  Catholic                      15%         14%         15%          17%         14%         19%         18%         14%            15%
  Independent                   13%         12%         15%          14%         13%         15%         13%         10%            13%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Family Composition FMCF




                 1.4.       Home language and English proficiency

Students who speak a language other than English at home and do not speak English well or
do not speak it at all can have difficulty with school work, whether they are physically at school
or at home. Such students are also likely to have parents or carers who do not speak English
well or at all. This would make undertaking school work at home especially difficult if parents
or carers cannot easily understand written information or instructions from the school or
regarding ICT hardware or software.

While the percentages of all students who did not speak English well or did not speak it at all
was small (nationally around one percent in 2016), the number was still substantial (over
25,000 nationally), as was the percentage in the Northern Territory (more than 5% of primary
public school students). Table 12 sets out the percentages who spoke a language other than
English at home, and, of those, the percentages who did not speak English well or at all.


 Barbara Preston Research                                       - 10 -           Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 12. Percentage of primary and secondary public school students who
                 speak a language other than English at home, and of those, who
                 speak English not well or not at all, states, territories and Australia,
                 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA          Tas           NT        ACT      Australia
  Percentage who speak a language other than English at home
  Primary                        22%         22%         11%          15%         16%          4%         38%         22%             18%
  Secondary                      25%         26%         12%          16%         19%          5%         42%         22%             21%
 Of those who spoke a language other than English at home, percentage who spoke English not well or not
 at all
  Primary                         6%          6%           8%          9%          7%         15%         14%           5%              6%
  Secondary                       6%          6%           6%         10%          5%         14%           6%          6%              6%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Proficiency in Spoken English ENGLP




                 1.5.       Disability

Students who need assistance with core activities were likely to have difficulty with schooling
at home, and their need for assistance would put extra stress on parents and other members
of their households. Public school students are twice as likely as Catholic or independent
school students to need assistance with core activities (Table 13).

Table 13. Percentage of students who need assistance with core activities,
                 public, Catholic and independent schools, states, territories and
                 Australia, 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA          Tas           NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                          4%          4%           4%          5%          3%          4%           3%          4%              4%
  Catholic                        2%          2%           2%          3%          2%          3%           2%          2%              2%
  Independent                     3%          2%           2%          3%          2%          3%           2%          2%              2%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Core Activity Need for Assistance
ASSNP




                 1.6.       Housing

Security and adequacy of housing are important for successful schooling. Thirty-seven
percent of public school students lived in rented houses in 2016, twice the rate of Catholic
and independent school students. The percentage of public school students in rented houses
was especially high in Queensland (45%) and the NT (59%) (Tablel4).

Students living in rented housing were around twice as likely to not have access to the internet
at home - compare Tables 5 and 15. Public school students living in rented housing are almost
twice as likely to have been without internet access at home as Catholic or independent
school students living in rented housing (Table 15).




 Barbara Preston Research                                        - 11 -           Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 14. Percentage of students in rented housing, public, Catholic and
                  independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA          Tas           NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                         36%         31%         45%         35%          35%         35%         59%         34%             37%
  Catholic                       19%         15%         20%          17%         16%         17%         46%         17%             18%
  Independent                    21%         17%         22%          16%         19%         16%         30%         16%             19%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Tenure type TND




Table 15. Percentage of students in rented housing without internet access
                  from home, public, Catholic, independent and all schools, states,
                  territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA          Tas           NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                         10%          8%         10%          12%         11%         14%         31%           5%            10%
  Catholic                        5%          6%           5%          7%          7%          9%         27%           2%              6%
  Independent                     5%          4%           5%          6%          7%          7%         14%           2%              5%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Tenure type TEND; Dwelling internet
connection NEDD




The Census classification of "unsuitable housing" is based on an insufficient number of
bedrooms for the number and demographics of dwelling residents1. Such unsuitable housing
makes it difficult for students to have the space and quiet to successfully study, complete
homework or undertake school work at home. Twelve percent of public school students lived
in unsuitable housing (with insufficient bedrooms) in 2016, with higher percentages in the NT
and NSW. In comparison, 7% of Catholic and independent school students lived in unsuitable
housing (Table 16).

Table 16. Percentage of students in unsuitable housing, public, Catholic and
                  independent schools, states, territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA          Tas           NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                         15%         11%         11%          11%          8%         10%         36%           8%            12%
  Catholic                        9%          7%           4%          7%          4%          6%         27%           4%              7%
  Independent                     8%          7%           5%          6%          5%          7%         12%           4%              7%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Housing Suitability HOSD




1 The Census variable of Housing suitability (HOSD) is a measure of housing utilisation based on a comparison of the number
of bedrooms in a dwelling with a series of household demographics, such as the number of usual residents, their relationship
to each other, age and sex. The criteria are based on the Canadian National Occupancy Standard. It can be used to identify
if a dwelling is either under or over utilised (Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2016b).




 Barbara Preston Research                                        - 12 -           Digital inclusion for all public school students
Unsuitable housing is twice as likely as all housing to have no internet access for residents
(compare Tables 5 and 17).

Table 17. Percentage of students in unsuitable housing without internet
                 access from home, public, Catholic and independent schools, states,
                 territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld          SA         WA           Tas          NT        ACT      Australia
  Public                          8%          7%         13%         12%         15%         12%         41%           6%            11%
  Catholic                        4%          5%          7%          6%           9%          7%        39%           3%              6%
  Independent                     5%          5%          7%          5%         10%           6%        33%           2%              6%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Housing Suitability HOSD; Dwelling
internet connection NEDD




Whether or not housing is classified as unsuitable, a large number of residents makes
undertaking school work and studying at home more difficult—with noise, distractions and
interruptions. Eighteen percent of public school students lived in dwellings with six or more
residents in 2016. While only 3% nationally lived in dwellings with 8 or more residents, 17%
of NT students did, and more than a third lived in dwellings with six or more residents.
Queensland also had a higher than average percentage of public school students in dwellings
with large numbers of residents (Table 18).

Table 18. Percentage of public school students in dwellings with six or more,
                 seven or more, or eight or more persons usually resident, states and
                 territories and Australia, 2016

                               NSW            Vic        Qld          SA         WA           Tas          NT        ACT      Australia
 6 or more                       19%         17%         20%         15%         17%         15%         36%          14%            18%
 7 or more                        7%          6%          8%          6%           6%          5%        24%           5%              7%
 8 or more                        3%          3%          4%          3%           3%          2%         17%          2%              3%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander status INGP; Number of Persons usually
Resident in Dwelling NPRD




                 1.7.         Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students are much more likely than other students to
experience the disadvantages that make undertaking school work and study at home difficult.
Not all of these disadvantages are discussed in this section. Six percent of public school
students were Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander in 2016 (compared with 3% of Catholic
school students and 2% of independent school students). The percentage was much higher in
the NT (42%), Tasmania (10%) and Queensland (9%) (Table 19).




 Barbara Preston Research                                        - 13 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 19. Percentage of students who are Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander,
                 public, Catholic and independent schools, states, territories and
                 Australia, 2016

                                NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA           Tas          NT         ACT     Australia

  Public                           7%          2%           9%          5%          6%         10%          42%           3%              6%

  Catholic                         3%          1%          4%           2%          3%           7%         32%           2%              3%

  Independent                      2%          1%          4%           2%          2%           4%         19%           1%              2%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
status INGP




Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students were much more likely to have no internet
access at home—21% compared with 5% for all public school students, and greater
differences for Catholic and independent school Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
compared with all students (Tables 5 and 20). The percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander public school students without internet access at home was higher in the NT (45%),
South Australia (29%) and Western Australia (24%) (Table 20).

Table 20. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students without
                 internet access at home, public, Catholic and independent schools,
                 states, territories and Australia, 2016

                                NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA           Tas          NT         ACT     Australia

  Public                         17%          13%         20%         24%          29%         13%          45%         10%             21%

  Catholic                         7%          6%           8%          6%         19%           6%         40%           3%            11%

  Independent                    10%           7%         14%          10%         28%           4%         35%           7%            15%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
status INGP; Dwelling internet connection NEDD




An adequate family income facilitates many of the resources, facilities and circumstances
necessary for successful school work at home. While around a third of all Australian school
students had LOW family incomes in 2016, more than two thirds of all Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander public school students had LOW family incomes. In the NT and Western
Australia around three quarters of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school students
had LOW family incomes (Table 21).




 Barbara Preston Research                                         - 14 -           Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 21. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in LOW
                 income families, public, Catholic and independent schools, states,
                 territories and Australia, 2016

                                NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA           Tas          NT         ACT     Australia
  Public                          66%         67%         68%         76%          66%         71%          75%         52%             68%
  Catholic                        42%        47%          42%         50%          47%         43%          73%         20%             45%
  Independent                     48%        43%          53%         54%          55%         53%          49%         23%             51%

LOW family incomes are in the approximate bottom third of the family incomes of all Australian school students in 2016: a weekly income
of less than $1,500

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
status INGP; Family Income FINF




Almost a quarter of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school students were in
unsuitable housing (too few bedrooms for the number and demographics of the dwelling
residents). In the NT 62% of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school students were
in unsuitable housing (Table 22).

Table 22. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in
                 unsuitable housing, public, Catholic and independent schools, states
                 and territories and Australia, 2016

                                NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA           Tas          NT         ACT      Australia
  Public                          17%         15%         23%         20%          23%         15%          62%         11%             23%
  Catholic                        16%         15%         21%          19%         23%         13%          60%         11%             21%
  Independent                     17%         15%         22%         20%          23%         14%          61%         11%             22%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Type of Educational Institution Attending TYPP; Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
status INGP; Housing Suitability HOSD




Whether or not housing was unsuitable, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school
students tended to live with many more people than other students in 2016. Ten percent
lived in houses with eight or more people, and a third lived in houses with six or more.
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school students tended to live in especially larger
households in the NT, and then South Australia and Queensland (Table 23).

Table 23. Percentage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander public school
                 students, in dwellings with six or more, seven or more, or eight or
                 more persons usually resident, states and territories and Australia,
                 2016

                                NSW            Vic        Qld           SA         WA           Tas          NT         ACT      Australia
 6 or more                        27%         23%         35%         27%          36%         21%          62%         21%             33%
 7 or more                        11%          9%         18%          11%         18%           8%         47%           7%            16%
 8 or more                         5%          4%         11%           6%         11%           4%         38%           3%            10%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017). Census classifications: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander status INGP; Number of Persons usually
Resident in Dwelling NPRD


 Barbara Preston Research                                         - 15 -           Digital inclusion for all public school students
              1.8.     The impact of the 2019-2020 bushfires

For many in governments, the media and the wider community, concern about COVID-19
overtook concern about the impact of the 2019-2020 bushfires. But the immediate and long
term impact of the fires on school communities, students, their families and wider
communities need to be taken into account in responses to COVID-19 and in forward planning
to minimize the ongoing disruption to schooling for students affected by the fires.

The fires had a very substantial effect: over 17 million hectares were burnt and over 3,000
houses destroyed across NSW, Victoria, Queensland, ACT, Western Australia and South
Australia (Richards, Brew, & Smith, 2020, 12 March). There were more than 200,000 school
age children in the fire-affected areas of New South Wales and Victoria alone (estimated from
Williamson, Markham, & Weir, 2020, 2 April). Bushfires and other disasters can have long-
lasting effects on school students: physical dislocation, financial losses for many families, and
on-going psychological effects on students and their families (Gibbs et al., 2019).

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, especially children, were particularly affected.
Williamson, Markham, and Weir researched the impact of the fires in New South Wales and
Victoria on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people (2020, p. 5; 2020, 2 April). They found
that more than a quarter of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in those states
lived in fire-affected areas (more than 84,000 people). Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people made up 5% of the population in the fire-affected areas (compared with 2% in those
states as a whole), and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children made up 10% of the more
than 200,000 school-age children in the fire-affected areas in those two states—that is, a total
of around 20,000 Aboriginal and Torres Strait school age children in the fire-affected areas of
New South Wales and Victoria. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students in these
localities were already disadvantaged. For example in 2016, 17% of Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander students in public schools in the fire-affected statistical areas2 were in
"unsuitable housing" (without sufficient bedrooms for the occupants)3, and two thirds were
in LOW income families (up to 77% in LaTrobe-Gippsland and 74% in Mid North Coast)
(Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2016b).

Williamson, Markham, and Weir explained the particular impact of the fires on Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people:

             Aboriginal people hold significant legal rights and interests over lands and waters
             in the fire-affected areas.... The nature of these legal rights and interests means
             the bushfires have different consequences for Aboriginal rights-holders than for

2 The ABS Statistical Area 4 (SA4) regions of Central Coast; Illawarra; Mid North Coast; Capital Region; Coffs
Harbour - Grafton; Richmond - Tweed; Southern Highlands and Shoalhaven; Sydney - Outer West and Blue
Mountains; Latrobe - Gippsland.
3 "The Census variable of Housing suitability is a measure of housing utilisation based on a comparison of the
number of bedrooms in a dwelling with a series of household demographics, such as the number of usual
residents, their relationship to each other, age and sex. The criteria are based on the Canadian National
Occupancy Standard. It can be used to identify if a dwelling is either under or over utilised." (Australian Bureau
of Statistics, 2016b) The measure used here is needing at least one extra bedroom in the dwelling.


 Barbara Preston Research                            - 16 -        Digital inclusion for all public school students
            non-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander landowners. Even where there's no
            formal recognition, all fire-affected lands have Aboriginal ownership held and
            passed down through songlines, languages and kinship networks.
            Many non-Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander land-owners in the fire-affected
            areas face the difficult decision of whether to stay and rebuild, or sell and move
            on. Traditional owners, on the other hand, are in a far more complex and unending
            situation. Traditional owners carry inter-generational responsibilities, practices
            and more that have been formed with the places they know as their Country. They
            can leave and live on someone else's Country, but their Country and any formally
            recognised communal land and water rights remain in the fire-affected area.
            (Williamson, et al., 2020, 2 April)
As schools and education authorities seek to restore effective schooling for all students post
the initial COVID-19 crisis period, the particular circumstances of fire-affected students,
especially Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students, also need to be taken into full
account on an ongoing basis.




 Barbara Preston Research                   - 17 -     Digital inclusion for all public school students
2. State and territory summaries and internet access at home by statistical
   areas

In this section the data for each state and territory from the earlier sections are summarised,
with important characteristics highlighted.

This is followed by data on the number and percentage of public school students who do not
have internet access at home by statistical region, set out in tables and maps.

Either the Statistical Area Level 4 (SA4) or the Statistical Area Level 3 (SAS) is used (for the
larger and smaller states and territories respectively). More rural and remote statistical areas
have lower populations. The criteria for determining the boundaries of the areas are
summarised by the ABS on the Australian Statistical Geography Standard (ASGS) webpage
(2018). The data ranges in the maps are based on "natural boundaries"—see Appendix:
Technical notes.




              2.1.    New South Wales — summary and internet access at home by
                      statistical areas

Almost a third of all Australian public school students were in New South Wales in 2016, .
According to the data on student characteristics reported in earlier sections, New South
Wales public school students were much the same or slightly less disadvantaged than
students throughout Australia. Of New South Wales public school students:

    •         5 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         42% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         12% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         23% in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 22% of primary students and 25% of secondary students who spoke a language
        other than English at home, 6% (primary and secondary) spoke English not well or not
        at all (Table 12)
    •         4% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         36% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   10% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   15% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •         8% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   19%, 7%, 3% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         7% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of New South Wales Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

 Barbara Preston Research                     - 18 -     Digital inclusion for all public school students
    •        17% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •        66% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •        17% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   27%, 11%, 5% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

The 2019-2020 bushfires severely affected many public schools students and their
communities, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students were around 10% of the more
than 200,000 school age children areas affected by the fires in New South Wales and Victoria.
The impact of the fires is discussed in section 1.8, and the special needs of affected students,
then magnified by the impact of a lack of resources to effectively engage in schooling during
the COVID-19 school closures, need to be taken into account.

In New South Wales in 2016 5% of public school students were without access to the internet
at home, and the percentages in Statistical Areas SA4s ranged from just 1% in Sydney northern
suburbs and Sutherland, to 15% in the Far West and Orana and 11% in New England and the
Far West SA4 (Table 24 and Figures 1 and 2).




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 19 -     Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 24. Public school students' internet access from home, New South
                 Wales, SA4

                                                            Internet        Internet not                             % internet
                                                                                                           Total
                                                           accessed            accessed                            not accessed

 Capital Region                                                19 107                 1 327               20 437              6%
 Central Coast                                                 31 942                 1 368               33 308              4%

 Central West                                                  18 238                 1 676               19 913              8%
 Coffs Harbour - Grafton                                       12 006                   926               12 929              7%

 Far West and Orana                                             9 070                 1 551               10 626            15%

 Hunter Valley exc Newcastle                                    5 189                 1 898               27 090              7%
 Illawarra                                                     27 868                 1 261               29 129              4%

 Mid North Coast                                               16 701                 1483                18 183              8%
 Murray                                                         9 697                   701               10 394              7%

 New England and North West                                    15 702                 1 987               17 689            11%
 Newcastle and Lake Macquarie                                  33 230                 1 615               34 847              5%

 Richmond - Tweed                                              18 758                 1 301               20 060              6%

 Riverina                                                      13 410                 1 247               14 657              9%
 Southern Highlands and Shoalhaven                             12 769                   704               13 478              5%

 Sydney - Baulkham Hills &
                                                               24 361                   320               24 685              1%
 Hawkesbury

 Sydney - Blacktown                                            34 654                 1 959               36 613              5%

 Sydney - City and Inner South                                 11 187                   427               11 613              4%
 Sydney - Eastern Suburbs                                      11 216                   231               11446               2%

 Sydney - Inner South West                                     46 878                 2 089               48 969              4%

 Sydney - Inner West                                           18 219                   460               18 675              2%
 Sydney - North Sydney and Hornsby                             33 649                   458               34 101              1%

 Sydney - Northern Beaches                                     24 651                   237               24 887              1%

 Sydney - Outer South West                                     27 809                 1794                29 605              6%
 Sydney - Outer West & Blue
                                                               28 669                 1 185               29 851              4%
 Mountains

 Sydney - Parramatta                                           38 569                 1727                40 296              4%
 Sydney - Ryde                                                 15 429                   232               15 665              1%

 Sydney - South West                                           40 226                 2 689               42 915              6%

 Sydney - Sutherland                                           21 775                   293               22 068              1%

 Total                                                       640 982                33 142              674 127               5%

Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SA4; Internet access NEDD
Note: The ABS Census undercounts NSW public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                       - 20 -           Digital inclusion for all public school students
                                                  Jwydney


                                                                                8.51%-14.60%
                                                                                7.16%-8.51%
                                                                                5.35%-7.16%
                                                                                2.46%-5.35%
                                                                                0.95%-2.46%

  Figure 1          Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                    internet. New South Wales, SA4, 2016. (Source: Table 24)




                                                     dney

                                                                                 2.089-2.689
                                                                                 1.551-2.089
                                                                                 926-1,551



                                                                                 231-460


  Figure 2          Number of public school students not accessing the interne^
                    New South Wales SA4, 2016 (Source Table 24)




Barbara Preston Research                 - 21 -    Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.2.    Victoria — summary and internet access at home by
                      statistical areas

Almost a quarter of all Australian public school students were in Victoria in 2016. According
to the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, Victorian public school students
were much the same or slightly less disadvantaged than students throughout Australia. Of
Victorian public school students:

    •         4 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         43% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         13% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         22% in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 22% of primary students and 26% of secondary students who spoke a language
        otherthan English at home, 6% (primary and secondary) spoke English not well or not
        at all (Table 12)
    •         4% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         31% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   8% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   11% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •         7% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   17%, 6%, 3% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         2% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of Victorian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         13% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         67% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         15% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   23%, 9%, 4% in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

The 2019-2020 bushfires severely affected many public schools students and their
communities, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students were around 10% of the more
than 200,000 school age children areas affected by the fires in eastern Victoria and New South
Wales. The impact of the fires is discussed in section 1.8, and the special needs of affected
students, then magnified by the impact of a lack of resources to effectively engage in
schooling during the COVID-19 school closures, need to be taken into account in the response
to COVID-19. In Victoria in 2016 4% of public school students were without access to the
internet at home, and the percentages ranged from just 1% in the Melbourne Inner South, to
7% in the North West SA4 (Table 25 and Figures 3 and 4).


 Barbara Preston Research                    - 22 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 25. Public school students' internet access from home, Victoria, SA4,
              2016

                                                             Internet       Internet not                               % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                            accessed           accessed                              not accessed

 Ballarat                                                      12 226                   689            12 913                 5%
 Bendigo                                                       13 119                   632            13 751                 5%
 Geelong                                                       22 609                   946            23 548                 4%
 Hume                                                          13 734                   905            14 646                 6%
 Latrobe - Gippsland                                           22 851                1460              24 314                 6%
 Melbourne - Inner                                             25 420                   667            26 096                 3%
 Melbourne - Inner East                                        29 091                   450            29 542                 2%
 Melbourne - Inner South                                       29 225                   362            29 587                 1%
 Melbourne - North East                                        44 073                1365              45 440                 3%
 Melbourne - North West                                        29 845                1431              31 273                 5%
 Melbourne - Outer East                                        48 347                   938            49 284                 2%
 Melbourne - South East                                        71036                 2 643             73 676                 4%
 Melbourne - West                                              64 180                3 200             67 387                 5%
 Mornington Peninsula                                          T1 209                   865            28 068                 3%
 North West                                                    13 890                1032              14 925                 7%
 Shepparton                                                    10 517                   650            11166                  6%
 Warrnambool and South West                                      9 834                  582            10 418                 6%

Total                                                        487 208                18 819           506 024                  4%

  Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SA4; Internet access NEDD
  Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                     - 23 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
             lildura




                                                                          inberra




                                                                                              6 10%-S.91%
                                                                                              4.75W-6.1B%
                                                                                              3.59%-4.75%
                                                                                              i.sott-a.sgu
                                                                                              1.22%*L90%


  Figure 3             Percentage of public school students not
                       accessing the internet, Victoria, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 25)


             lildura




                                                                            inberra




                                                                                                2,643-3,200
                                                                                                1,460-2,643
                                                                                                1,032-1,460
                                                                                                689-1,032
                                                                                                362-689




  Figure 4             Number of public school students not accessing the interne^
                       Victoria, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 25)




Barbara Preston Research                     - 24 -    Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.3.    Queensland — summary and internet access at home by
                      statistical areas

Twenty one percent of all Australian public school students were in Queensland in 2016.
According to the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, in Queensland public
school students were generally more disadvantaged than students throughout Australia, in
particular, a substantially higher percentage in rented housing. Of Queensland public school
students:

    •         6 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         46% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         13% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         26% in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 11% of primary students and 12% of secondary students who spoke a language
        other than English at home, 8% (primary) and 6% (secondary) spoke English not well
        or not at all (Table 12)
    •         4% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         45% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   10% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   11% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •   13% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   20%, 8%, 4% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         9% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         20% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         68% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         23% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   35%, 18%, 11% in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

In Queensland in 2016 6% of public school students were without access to the internet at
home, and the percentages ranged from just 1% in Brisbane West, to 20% in the Queensland
Outback (see Table 26 and Figures 5 and 6) .




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 25 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 26. Public school students' internet access from home, Queensland, SA4,
              2016

                                                             Internet       Internet not                               % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                            accessed           accessed                              not accessed

 Brisbane - East                                               19 406                   664            20 073                 3%
 Brisbane-North                                                14 833                   546            15 375                 4%
 Brisbane-South                                                T1 030                   787            27 813                 3%
 Brisbane-West                                                 16 775                   223            17 001                 1%
 BrisbanelnnerCity                                             12 509                   216            12 730                 2%
 Cairns                                                        20 511                2 675             23 178                12%
 DarlingDowns-Maranoa                                          12 153                1 098             13 246                 8%
 CentralQueensland                                             20 730                1 706             22 433                 8%
 GoldCoast                                                     48 189                1 840             50 031                 4%
 Ipswich                                                       33 645                2 749             36 397                 8%
 Logan-Beaudesert                                              33 708                2 695             36 403                 7%
 Mackay-Isaac-Whitsunday                                       16 967                1 070             18 039                 6%
 MoretonBay-North                                              23 754                1 574             25 325                 6%
 MoretonBay-South                                              21 579                   614            22 190                 3%
 Queensland-Outback                                              7 457               1 810               9263                20%
SunshineCoast                                                  31 777                1 218             32 993                 4%
Toowoomba                                                      12 653                   792            13 448                 6%
Townsville                                                     17 963                1 881             19 843                 9%
WideBay                                                        26 442                2 494             28 933                 9%

Total                                                        418 090                26641             444732                  6%
  Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SA4; Internet access NEDD
  Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                     - 26 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
                            tCairri:




                                                         11.54%-19 54%
                                                         9.43%-11,54 H
                                                         6.22% -9.4E%

                                         I               3 69% -6 22%
                                                         1.3L%-3.69%



  Figure 5          Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                    internet, Queensland, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 26)




                           jCairn:




                                                          1.881-2.749

                                                          1.218-1.381
                                                          752-1,218
                                                          223-792

                                                          218-223



  Figure 6          Number of public school students not accessing the internet,
                    Queensland, SA4, 2016 (Source: Table 26)



Barbara Preston Research                 - 27 -   Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.4.    South Australia — summary and internet access at home by
                      statistical areas

Seven percent of all Australian public school students were in South Australia in 2016.
According to the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, South Australian public
school students were generally more disadvantaged than students throughout Australia. Of
South Australian public school students:

    •         6% were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         50% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         15% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         25% in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 15% of primary students and 16% of secondary students who spoke a language
        other than English at home, 9% (primary) and 10% (secondary) spoke English not well
        or not at all (Table 12)
    •         5% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         35% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   12% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   11% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •         12% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   15%, 6%, 3% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         5% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of South Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         24% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         76% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         20% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   27%, 11%, 6% in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

In South Australia in 2016 6% of public school students were without access to the internet
at home, and the percentages ranged from 2% in Adelaide Central and Hills, to 23% in the
Outback North and East (Table T1, Figures 7 or 8).




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 28 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 27. Public school students' internet access from home, South Australia,
               SA4 and SAS, 2016

                                                              Internet      Internet not                              % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                             accessed          accessed                             not accessed

                                                 Adelaide metropolitan - SA4

 Adelaide - Central and Hills                                    21 169                  481            21 653                2%

 Adelaide - North                                                34 917               2 645             37 563                7%
 Adelaide - South                                                30 276                1 208            31485                 4%

 Adelaide - West                                                 14 411                  889            15 301                6%

                                                        Rest of state - SA3

 Barossa                                                          3 489                  147              3 640               4%

 Lower North                                                      2 218                  139              2 360               6%
 Mid North                                                        2 274                  231              2 505               9%

Yorke Peninsula                                                   2 241                  172              2 410               7%
 Eyre Peninsula and South West                                    5 545                  574              6 118               9%

 Outback - North and East                                         2 085                  622              2 705               23%

 Fleurieu - Kangaroo Island                                       4 016                  193              4 211               5%
 Limestone Coast                                                  6 955                  535              7 488               7%

Total                                                          136 438                8 349            144 790                6%
   Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SA4 and SAS; Internet access NEDD
   Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                      - 29 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
  Great
Australian
  Bight
                                                      9,38%-2299%

                            f      ■
                            r Gulfj                   7.14%-9.38%
                            *4    *
                                                      5.89%-7.14%

                                                      4.58%-5.89%

                                                      4.04%-4.58%



  Figure 7          Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                    internet. South Australia (non-metro), SAS, 2016 (Source: Table
                    27)




  Greaf
Australsan
                                                           574-522
  Bight



                                Goff
                                                           535-574
                                                           231-535

                                                           172-231
                                                           139-172



  Figure 8          Number of public school students not accessing the interne^
                    South Australia (non-metro), SAS, 2016 (Source: Table 27)


Barbara Preston Research                 - 30 -    Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.5.    Western Australia — summary and internet access at home
                      by statistical areas

Eleven percent of all Australian public school students were in Western Australia in 2016.
According to the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, Western Australian
public school students were generally slightly less disadvantaged than students throughout
Australia, though Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students were more likely not to have
internet access at home and to live in crowded houses. Of Western Australian public school
students:

    •         5 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         38% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         12% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         21% in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 16% of primary students and 19% of secondary students who spoke a language
        other than English at home, 7% (primary) and 5% (secondary) spoke English not well
        or not at all (Table 12)
    •         3% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         35% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   11% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   8% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •   15% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   17%, 6%, 3% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         6% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of Western Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         29% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         66% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         23% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   36%, 18%, 11% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual
        residents respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

In Western Australia in 2016 5% of public school students were without access to the internet
at home, and the percentages ranged from just 1% in Perth Inner, to 24% in the Kimberley
and 22% in Gascoyne SA3 (Table 28 and Figures 9 and 10).




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 31 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 28. Public school students' internet access from home, Western
                Australia, SA4 and SAS, 2016

                                                              Internet      Internet not                              % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                             accessed          accessed                             not accessed

                                                   Perth metropolitan -SA4

 Perth - Inner                                                   10 720                  111            10 830                 1%

 Perth - North East                                              20 477                  989            21461                 5%

 Perth - North West                                             48 534                 1 646            50 174                3%

 Perth - South East                                             43 330                2 070             45 396                5%
 Perth - South West                                              38 122                1481             39 605                4%

                                                        Rest of state - SAS

Augusta - Margaret River - Busselton                              4 705                  202              4 912               4%

 Bunbury                                                         10 465                  709            11 177                6%

 Manjimup                                                         2 063                  158              2 228               7%
 Mandurah                                                         7 856                  499              8 351               6%
Albany                                                            5 335                  481              5 817               8%

Wheat Belt - North                                                4 965                  424              5 389               8%

Wheat Belt - South                                                2 071                  197              2 262               9%
 Kimberley                                                        2 952                  948              3 898               24%

 East Pilbara                                                     2 226                  357              2 587               14%

West Pilbara                                                      3 256                  320              3 573               9%
 Esperance                                                        1794                   115              1 904               6%

Gascoyne                                                            658                  183                836               22%

Goldfields                                                        3 573                  526              4 096               13%
 Mid West                                                         4 032                  638              4 667               14%

Total                                                          217 134               12 054            229 163                5%
   Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SA4 and SAS; Internet access NEDD
   Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                      - 32 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
                                                   13 80%-24.32%

                                                   8.96%-13.80%

                                                   7.05% -8.96%

                                                   4.11%-7 09%

                                                   4.11%-4 11%



  Figure 9          Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                    internet. Western Australia (non-metro), SAS, 2016 (Source
                    Table 28)




                                                       709-940

                                                       526-709

                                                        357-526

                                           Gr
                                                       202-357
                                         Ausf
                                           Bj
                                                       115-202



  Figure 10         Number of public school students not accessing the internet,
                    Western Australia (non-metro), SAS, 2016 (Source: Table 28)



Barbara Preston Research                 - 33 -   Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.6.    Tasmania —summary and internet access at home by
                      statistical areas

Two percent of all Australian public school students were in Tasmania in 2016. According to
the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, Tasmanian public school students
were generally more disadvantaged than students throughout Australia, especially in family
income, though internet access and housing were better for Tasmanian Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander students that other Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students. Of
Tasmanian public school students:

    •         7 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         53% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         16% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         27% were in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 4% of primary students and 5% of secondary students who spoke a language
        other than English at home, 15% (primary) and 14% (secondary) spoke English not
        well or not at all (Table 12)
    •         4% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         35% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   14% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   10% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •         12% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   15%, 5%, 2% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         10% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of Tasmanian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         13% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         71% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         15% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   21%, 8%, 4% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

In Tasmania in 2016 7% of public school students were without access to the internet at home,
and the percentages ranged from 2% in Hobart Inner, to 14% in Brighton and 13% in the
Central Highlands SA3.




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 34 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 29. Public school students' internet access from home, Tasmania SAS,
              2016

                                                             Internet       Internet not                               % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                            accessed           accessed                              not accessed

 Brighton                                                       1 625                  261              1886                14%
 Hobart - North East                                            4 582                  280              4 867                 6%
 Hobart - North West                                            4 417                  519              4 934               11%
 Hobart - South and West                                        3 262                  115              3 375                 3%
 Hobart Inner                                                   3 444                    73             3 513                 2%
 Sorell - Dodges Ferry                                          1466                   100              1571                  6%
 Launceston                                                     7 211                  491              7 704                 6%
 Meander Valley - West Tamar                                    2 097                  142              2 240                 6%
 North East                                                     3 492                  324              3 813                 8%
 Central Highlands (Tas.)                                          979                 142              1 121               13%
 Huon - Bruny Island                                            1548                   115              1 666                 7%
 South East Coast                                                  486                   64                546              12%
 Burnie - Ulverstone                                            4 404                  380              4 791                 8%
 Devonport                                                      4 277                  339              4 619                 7%
Total                                                         44 712                 3 507            48 218                  7%
  Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SAS; Internet access NEDD
  Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                     - 35 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
                                                     10.52%-13.84%

                                                     8.50%-10.52%

                                                     6.90%-3.50%

                                                     3 41%-&90%

                                                     2.08%-3.41%



  Figure 11         Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                    internet, Tasmania, SAS, 2016 (Source: Table 29)




                                                          300-519

                                                          280-380

                                                          152-280

                                                          100-152

                                                          64-100




  Figure 12         Number of public school students not accessing the internet,
                    Tasmania, SAS, 2016 (Source: Table 29)




Barbara Preston Research                 - 36 -   Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.7.    Northern Territory — summary and internet access at home
                      by statistical areas

One percent of all Australian public school students were in the Northern Territory in 2016.
According to the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, Northern Territory public
school students were substantially more disadvantaged than students throughout Australia
(though not students who were not Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander). Forty two percent of
Northern Territory students were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander students, and they were
much more disadvantaged than Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students elsewhere in
Australia in internet access at home, family income and house suitability and number of
residents. Of all Northern Territory public school students:

    •         22 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         44% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         18% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         24% were in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 38% of primary students and 42% of secondary students who spoke a language
        otherthan English at home, 14% (primary) and 6% (secondary) spoke English not well
        or not at all (Table 12)
    •         3% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         59% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   31% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   36% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •   41% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   36%, 24%, 17% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual
        residents respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         42% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of Northern Territory Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         45% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         75% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         62% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   62%, 47%, 38% in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)

In the Northern Territory in 2016 22% of public school students were without access to the
internet at home, and the percentages ranged from 4% in Darwin City, to 51% in the Barkly
and 43% in Alice Springs SA3 (Table 30 and Figures 13 and 14).




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 37 -     Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 30. Public school students' internet access from home, Northern
               Territory, SAS, 2016

                                                             Internet       Internet not                               % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                            accessed           accessed                              not accessed

 Darwin City                                                      1662                    77             1 742                4%

 Darwin Suburbs                                                  4 888                  362              5 247                7%

 Litchfield                                                       1857                  148              2 007                7%
 Palmerston                                                      3 294                  313              3 608                9%

 Alice Springs                                                    1764                1 316              3 079               43%

 Barkly                                                             395                 407                 801              51%
 Daly - Tiwi - West Arnhem                                        1015                  633              1 644               39%

 East Arnhem                                                      1521                  713              2 231               32%
 Katherine                                                        1484                  961              2 445               39%

 Total                                                          17 878                4 925             22 802               22%
  Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SAS; Internet access NEDD
  Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                     - 38 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
                                            42.74%-50.31%

                                            99.30%-42.74%

                                            31.36%-39.30%

                                            8rGB%-3196%

                                            4.42% -8.63%


  Figure 13         Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                    internet, Northern Territory, SAS, 2016 (Source: Table 30)




                                                  961-lb316

                                                  713-961



                                                  148-407

                                                  77-148



  Figure 14         Number of public school students not accessing the interne^
                    Norther Territory, SAS, 2016 (Source: Table 30)


Barbara Preston Research                 - 39 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
              2.8.    Australian Capital Territory — summary and internet access
                      at home by statistical areas

Two percent of all Australian public school students were in the Australian Capital Territory
in 2016. According to the data on characteristics reported in earlier sections, Australian
Capital Territory public school students were substantially more advantaged than students
throughout Australia, though Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students. Of Australian
Capital Territory public school students:

    •         2 % were without internet access at home (Australia 5%; Table 4)
    •         26% were in LOW income families (Australia 43%; Table 9)
    •         8% were in very low income families (Australia 13%; Table 10)
    •         20% were in one parent families (Australia 23%; Table 11)
    •   Of the 22% of primary students and secondary students who spoke a language other
        than English at home, 5% (primary) and 6% (secondary) spoke English not well or not
        at all (Table 12)
    •         4% needed assistance with core activities (Australia 4%; Table 13)
    •         34% lived in rented housing (Australia 37%; Table 14)
    •   5% who were in rented housing were without internet access (Australia 10%; Table
        15)
    •   8% were in unsuitable housing (insufficient bedrooms for the residents) (Australia
        12%; Table 16)
    •         6% who were in unsuitable housing were without internet (Australia 11%; Table 17)
    •   14%, 5%, 2% were in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 18%, 7%, 3%; Table 18)
    •         3% were Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander (Australia 6%; Table 19)

Of Northern Territory Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students:

    •         10% were without internet access at home (Australia 21%; Table 20)
    •         52% were in LOW income families (Australia 68%; Table 21)
    •         11% were in unsuitable housing (Australia 23% Table 22)
    •   21%, 7%, 3% in dwellings with 6 or more, 7 or more or 8 or more usual residents
        respectively (Australia 33%, 16%, 10%; Table 18)



In the Australian Capital Territory the percentage of public school students without access to
the internet at home was 3% or below in all statistical areas, ranging up to 3% in Tuggeranong,
Belconnen, and the Inner North SA3 (sse Table 31 and Figures 15 and 16).




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 40 -      Digital inclusion for all public school students
Table 31. Public school students' internet access from home, Australian
              Capital Territory, SAS, 2016

                                                             Internet       Internet not                               % internet
                                                                                                         Total
                                                            accessed           accessed                              not accessed

 Belconnen                                                       8 646                  259              8 901                3%
 Canberra East                                                         47                   -                42               0%

 Gungahlin                                                       6 820                  104              6 920                2%
 North Canberra                                                  3 216                    87             3 304                3%

 South Canberra                                                   1735                    44             1 774                2%

Tuggeranong                                                      7 278                  218              7 501                3%
 Weston Creek                                                     1994                    47             2 043                2%

 Woden Valley                                                    2 816                    60             2 873                2%
 Molonglo                                                           359                    5                366               1%

 Urriarra - Namadgi                                                    55                   -                55               0%

Total                                                           32 956                  831             33 783                2%
  Source: ABS 2016 Census (2017) Census classifications: Main Statistical Area Structure SAS; Internet access NEDD
  Note: The ABS Census undercounts Victorian public school students by internet access data by 14%.




 Barbara Preston Research                                     - 41 -          Digital inclusion for all public school students
                                Quean




                                                              2.63%-3 Jl%

                                                              2.30% -2 63%

                                                              150%-2,30%
                                                              0.00% -150%
                           0^
                                                              0.00% -0.00%


  Figure 15          Percentage of public school students not accessing the
                     internet, Australian Capital Territory, SA3, 2016 Source: Table
                     30)


                                Sutton

            Dunlot




                       Canl




                                                                218-259

                                                                104-218

                                                                60-104
                                         Tineferry




  Figure 16          Number of public school students not accessing the internet,
                     Australian Capital Territory, SA3, 2016 (Source: Table 30)


Barbara Preston Research                             - 42 -       Digital inclusion for all public school students
Technical notes


ABS Census undercount

The ABS Census undercounts school students, and the undercount is greater when other
variables (such as Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander status, family income or internet access
at home) are involved. The undercount is discussed and calculated in the Technical Notes in
the companion report (Preston, 2018 - see below). ABS Schools Australia (2020) provides a
more accurate count of Australian student numbers. In this report an estimate of the
magnitude of the undercount is provided in notes to tables where relevant. For example, the
Census data on school students' internet access at home undercounts by 13%—the Census
count for all students with or without internet access at home in 2016 is 3,302,504, while the
total school enrolments for 2016 reported in Schools Australia (Table 42b) is 3,798,226.

Internet access from home

Internet access from home data is derived from Question 59 in the 2016 Census Household
Form (Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2016a). The definition of internet access is broad—the
question is as follows:
           Does any member of this household access the internet from this dwelling?

              •    Include internet access using desktop/laptop computers, mobile or smart phones, tablets,
                   music or video players, gaming consoles, smart TVs etc.
             •     Include internet access through any type of connection including ADSL, fibre, cable, wireless,
                   satellite and mobile broadband (3G/4G).

Accessing the internet solely via a mobile phone with a data allowance is included in the
Census category of internet access from home. Yet this is very different from accessing the
internet via a fixed broadband connection to a computer.

Data ranges in state maps

The data ranges in the maps are classified according to 'Natural Breaks'. These are explained
by ABS as follows:
           TableBuilder calculates the ranges automatically based on natural breaks in the data. The natural
           breaks are calculated using the Dalenious Hodges Algorithm...
           This option is a good choice when the data is not evenly distributed. This algorithm groups data into
           classes that are themselves as separate as possible, but where the data values within each class are
           fairly close together. That is, it maximises the differences between the classes and minimises the
           differences within the classes. This classification can be used to discover spatial patterns within the
           data, but it can lead to some classes being populated by low numbers of observations. (2016c, Map
           View)

Other technical notes

For all other technical notes see the companion report, The social make-up of schools: Family
income, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander status, family type, religion, languages spoken,
disability, home internet access, housing tenure, and geographic mobility of students in public,
Catholic     and    independent schools           (Preston,     2018),    which      can     be    accessed      at
http://www.aeufederal.org.au/application/files/7115/2G . /24 5/Preston2018.pdf .

 Barbara Preston Research                            - 43 -        Digital inclusion for all public school students
References

Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2016a). Census Household Form. Canberra: Australian
        Bureau of Statistics. Retrieved from
        https://www.abs.gov.aU/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/29 1. Main%20Features8 201
        6/$FILE/2 16%20Census%2CSample%2( -lousehold%20Form.pdf
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2016b). Census of Population and Housing: Census
        Dictionary Australia 2016. Cat. No. 2901.0, from
        http://www.ausstats.abs.gov.au/ausstats/subscriber.nsf/ /4D2CE49C30755BE7CA25
        81BE L54 A7/$File/2016%2t :ensus%20dictionary.pdf
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2016c). TableBuilder, User Guide. Cat. No. 1406.0.55.005,
       from
        https://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/by%2i Tubject/V )6 TSE 005~U
        ser%20Guide~Main%20Features~Map%20view~90
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2017). Census of Population and Housing, 2006, 2011 and
        2016, assessed via TableBuilder Pro, from http://www.abs.gov.au/tablebuilder
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2018). Australian Statistical Geography Standard (ASGS).
        Web page from
        https://www.abs.gov.au/websitedbs/D331 114.nsf/home/Australian+Statistical+Ge
        ography+Standard+(ASGS)
Australian Bureau of Statistics. (2020). Schools, Australia Cat. No. 4221.0, from
        http://www.abs.gov.aU/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/4221.C
Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership. (2020). Spotlight: What works in
        online/distance teaching and learning (webpage), from
        https://www.aitsl.edu.au/research/spotlight/what-works-in-online-distance-
       teaching-and-learning (accessed 9 April 2020)
Cormann, M., & Fletcher, P. (2020,17 April). Media release: $150 million NBN assistance for
     families and businesses. Canberra: Australian Government. Retrieved from
      https://www.financeminister.gov.au/media-release/202( ; 4/17/15 -million-nbn-
      as    milie -a              (accessed 17 April 2020)
Davidson, P., Saunders, P., Bradbury, B., & Wong, M. (2020). Poverty in Australia 2020: Part
       1, Overview. ACOSS/UNSW Poverty and Inequality Partnership Report No. 3. Sydney:
       ACOSS. Retrieved from http://povertyandinequality.acoss.org.au/wp-
       content/uploads/2020 02/Poverty-in-Australia-2( ) Part-1 Overview.pdf
Ebeid, M. (2020, 7 April). How we're helping bridge the gap with online learning: Telstra
       statement. Melbourne: Telstra. Retrieved from
       https://exchange.telstra.com.au/how-were-helping-bridge-the-gap-with-on line­
       learning/
Gibbs, L., Nursey, J., Cook, J., Ireton, G., Alkemade, N., Roberts, M.,. . . Forbes, D. (2019).
        Delayed disaster impacts on academic performance of primary school children. Child
       Development, 90(4), 1402-1412. doi: 10.1111/cdev.l3200. Retrieved from
        https://srcd.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/' 0 Llll/cdev.132 0.

 Barbara Preston Research                    - 44 -     Digital inclusion for all public school students
Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. (2016). Poverty lines
     Australia: September quarter 2016. Melbourne: Melbourne Institute of Applied
      Economic and Social Research, University of Melbourne. Retrieved from
      https://melbourneinstitute.unimelb.edu.au/assets/documents/poverty-
      li nes/2016/Poverty-Lines-Austra lia-Sept-2016.pdf
National Digital Inclusion Alliamce. (2020). Definitions. Webpage, from
       https://www.digitalinclusion.org/definitions/
Preston, B. (2018). The social make-up of schools: Family income, Indigenous status, family
       type, religion, languages spoken, disability, home internet access, housing tenure,
       and geographic mobility of students in public, Catholic and independent schools. A
       report prepared for the Australian Education Union Canberra: Barbara Preston
       Research. Retrieved from
       http://www.aeufederal.org.aU/application/files/7115/2 90/2405/Preston2018.pdf
       (accessed 7 April 2020)
Reich, J. (2020,12 March). The case for shutting schools down instead of moving classes
        online. EdSurge. Retrieved from https://www.edsurge.com/news/2020 )3-12-the-
        case-for-shutting-colleges-down-instead-of-moving-classes-online
Richards, L, Brew, N., & Smith, L. (2020, 12 March). 2019-20 Australian bushfires—
       frequently asked questions: a quick guide. Parliamentary Library Research Paper
       Series.
Taub, A. (2020, 6 April). A new Covid-19 crisis: Domestic abuse rises worldwide, New York
       Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/world/coronavirus-
       dor esti -viole      html
Thomas, J., Barraket, J., Wilson, C. K., Rennie, E., Ewing, S., & MacDonald, T. (2019).
      Measuring Australia's digital divide: The Australian digital inclusion index 2019. A
      report for Telstra. RMIT University and Swinburne University of Technology.
      Retrieved from https://apo.org.au/node/255341
Williamson, B., Markham, F., & Weir, J. (2020). Aboriginal peoples and the response to the
       2019-2020 bushfires. Working Paper No. 134/2020. Canberra: Centre for Aboriginal
       Economic Policy Research, Australian National University. Retrieved from
       https://caepr.cass.anu.edu.aU/sites/default/files/docs/202C/3/CAEPR WP no 134
       2020 Williamson Markham Weir.pdf
Williamson, B., Markham, F., & Weir, J. (2020, 2 April). 1 in 10 children affected by bushfires
       is Indigenous. We've been ignoring them for too long. The Conversation. Retrieved
       from https://theconversation.com/l-in-10-children-affected-by-bushfires-is-
       indigenous-weve-been-ignoring-them-for-too-long-135212?




 Barbara Preston Research                    - 45 -     Digital inclusion for all public school students
                                                                                                        ANNEXURED

                                   Australian Education Union - Federal Office
    AEU                                                                 Phone : +61               Fax: +611
      txios                                                Email:                         Website: www.aeufederal,org.au




                                           MEDIA RELEASE

 EDUCATION WORKERS NEEDS PRIORITY ACCESS TO
          COVID-19 VACCINATION: AEU
                                                                                            Monday, 7 June 2021

The Australian Education Union is calling on the Federal Government to make the
education workforce a priority for COVID-19 vaccination.

“Teachers and education support personnel in early childhood settings, schools and
TAFEs are frontline workers, providing an essential service in our community; the
education of our children and young people,” Australian Education Union Federal
President Correna Haythorpe said.

“Education workers around the country are ready to roll up their sleeves and get the jab
because they know it’s the best way to protect themselves and their communities.

“The Federal Government must move urgently to prioritise teachers, principals and
education support staff for the COVID-19 vaccination. This would help protect staff,
students and families from the risks of contracting COVID-19 and mitigate the risk of
further school closures.”

The Australian Education Union has previously written to the Federal Health Minister, Greg
Hunt calling for teachers, principals and support staff across all education settings to be
included in the COVID-19 vaccination priority groups.

“It is proper that vulnerable groups have been prioritised for vaccination,” Ms Haythorpe
said.

“However, the Federal Government must now make the timetable for vaccinating
education staff clear.

“Teachers, principals and support staff are dedicated professionals. They will continue to
do the job the community rightly asks them to do. In return, the Federal Government must
move to immediately ensure principals, teachers and support staff are as safe as possible
from COVID-19 by prioritising their vaccination.”

-ENDS

Media contact: Alys Gagnon,




              An affiliate of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and Education International (El)
                                                                                          ANNEXURE E

                          Australian Education Union - Federal Office
    AEU                                         Ground Floor, 120 Clarendon Street, Southbank, Victoria, 3006
                                                               Phone : +61           Fax: +61
      txios                                  Email:                        Website: www.aeufederal.org.au




                                MEDIA RELEASE

   TEACHERS AND EDUCATION WORKERS CALL FOR
               VACCINE CLARITY

                                                                           Tuesday, 29 June 2021

The Australian Education Union is calling on the Federal Government to provide clarity on
the current COVID-19 vaccination arrangements, the priority group arrangements and the
future roll out of the vaccine.

“We have sought a commitment that the education workforce has priority access to the
COVID-19 vaccination in recognition of their status as essential workers,” Australian
Education Union Federal President Correna Haythorpe said.

“However, at no point has the Federal Government given education workers the courtesy
of making clear when they will receive a vaccine.

“Last night’s announcement that all Australians under 40 can speak to their GP about
receiving the Astra Zeneca vaccine has caused enormous confusion about when, where
and how education workers will receive a vaccine.

“It has always been the strong advice of the AEU to members to follow the advice of public
health authorities. However, there is now confusion about what that advice is.

“There are currently thousands of families in lockdown due to COVID-19 transmission in
schools, including the families of teachers, principals and education support staff. This
highlights the urgency of ensuring that the education workforce is as safe as possible from
COVID-19, by prioritising their vaccination.

“We need the Federal Government to make it crystal clear.

“What are the current priority group arrangements?

“What is the current public health advice with respect to the Astra Zeneca vaccine?

"When will education workers in schools, early childhood settings and TAPE receive a
COVID-19 vaccine and the greater level of safety from COVID-19 that comes with it?"

-ENDS

Media contact: Alys Gagnon,
                                                                                                        ANNEXURE F

                       Australian Education Union - Federal Office
    AEU                                                 Ground Floor, 120 Clarendon Street, Southbank, Victoria, 3006
                                                              Phone: +61                    Fax: +61
      txios                                           Email:                        Website: www.aeufederal.orci.au




                                           MEDIA RELEASE

 EDUCATION MINISTERS MUST PRIORITISE SCHOOL COVID-
            19 RECOVERY PLANNING: AEU

                                                                                     Friday, 3 September 2021

The AEU is calling on Education Ministers to urgently develop a national plan for school
COVID-19 recovery as a priority agenda item for the Education Ministers meeting today.

“There are a number of matters that must be urgently addressed by governments to
ensure the safe return to on-site learning in states and territories currently locked down,
and to prepare schools in other states and territories for any future COVID-19 outbreaks,”
AEU Federal President Correna Haythorpe said.

“These include the need to prioritise the vaccination of teachers, principals, education
support staff and currently eligible students, the safe re-opening of schools and identifying
and funding the school infrastructure required to meet public health requirements.”

The AEU is calling on the Education Ministers meeting to develop and implement a
national plan to:

   1. Prioritise teachers, principals, education support staff and students currently eligible
      for COVID-19 vaccination as a matter of urgency.
   2. Guide the reopening of schools, accommodating the needs of states and territories
      currently in lockdown and those that need to prepare for any future COVID-19
      outbreaks.
   3. Identify and fund the infrastructure needs to allow schools to accommodate for
      social distancing, hygiene, ventilation and any other public health measures to
      prevent the spread of COVID-19.
   4. Consult with the teaching profession, through the AEU, to ensure the voices of
      teachers, principals and education support staff are heard throughout the process.

“School COVID-19 recovery is one of the biggest concerns for parents and school
communities,” Ms Haythorpe said.

“Developing a national plan will require strong national leadership. We call on Minister
Tudge, as chair of the meeting and as Federal Education Minister, to step up and make
school COVID-19 recovery his number one priority.

“He must work with his Federal Health counterparts to ensure there is enough supply of
the COVID-19 vaccinations and that there is a clear, fair and transparent roll out plan.




              An affiliate of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and Education International (El)
“Teachers, principals and education support staff in locked down states and territories are
eager to return to on-site learning as soon as it is safe to do so.

“Their colleagues in other states and territories want to ensure they can appropriately
prepare in order to minimise the disruptions that naturally occur during outbreaks of
COVID-19.

“The urgent development of a school COVID-19 recovery plan would be the best way for
all Education Ministers to ensure that the education workforce and students are protected
and supported during this extraordinary time.

-ENDS

Media contact: Alys Gagnon,




          An affiliate of the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) and Education International (El)
                                                                                  ANNEXURE G




AEU Federal Executive - select resolution - 15 September 2021


We want our schools back, we want them safe, and we want the resources now to deliver the
education our children deserve.

As the COVID pandemic continues to seriously impact our students, members and the
communities we serve, the AEU reiterates it’s preparedness to work constructively with
Federal and State/Territory governments in the development of a COVID-19 National School
Recovery Plan for school education. The key elements of such a plan must include:

   1. Capital investment necessary for the Safe Running of Schools (ventilation audits, air
      quality testing, air purifiers, masks, sanitation etc.) and physical modifications of
      buildings / learning spaces.

   2. Recurrent funding necessary to provide ongoing staffing and resources for the
      delivery of intensive learning and support programs for students. This will require the
      Commonwealth immediately providing the funding required to achieve 100% SRS
      Funding for all Public Schools with the states/territories progressively providing their
      full investment.

The total commitment by the Commonwealth is significantly less compared to the billions
governments are now spending every week and being lost from the community as a result of
economic consequences of lockdowns.
                                                               ANNEXURE H




                         Submission

                            to the

           Senate Select Committee on Work and Care

                        September 2022




                                     Australian Education Union
Federal President

Kevin Bates
Federal Secretary


                                     Telephone:   +61
                                     Facsimile:   +61 |
                                     Web:         www.aeufederal.org.au
                                     E-mail:
  Introduction


  The Australian Education Union (“AEU”) makes this submission on behalf of over 198,000
  AEU members employed in the public primary, secondary, early childhood and TAPE sectors
  throughout Australia.

  This submission demonstrates that AEU members in all education sectors - from early
  education, to schools, to post-secondary education in TAPE institutions - are experiencing the
  most acute effects of Australia’s intersecting work and care crises.

  The AEU recommends that governments take urgent action to address these crises by
  addressing the gendered inequities in caring obligations experienced by the predominantly
  female educator workforce; ending the self-defeating pay freeze and pay cap policies of
  education employers that disproportionately impact on women and result in circumstances that
  are driving educators out of their profession; and committing to fully and equitably funding
  public education.

  Additionally, this submission provides examples of provisions in AEU workplace agreements
  positively affecting AEU members’ work and care responsibilities, and which the AEU
  encourage policymakers to more broadly adopt.

  Gendered assumptions in work and care


        Patriarchal attitudes and institutions in Australia

  By way of introduction, this section draws attention to the historical and current social and
  cultural assumptions, institutional frameworks, and policy settings regarding gender, work, and
  care in Australia. It demonstrates that, despite women now participating in the paid workforce
  at similar rates to men, Australia’s institutions and culture retains two patriarchal assumptions
  regarding work and care: first, that the ideal worker is a male breadwinner with minimal care
  and cultural obligations, and that women’s work is worth less than men’s work; second, that
  the ideal carer is expected to be woman, and that this is an unpaid private responsibility. The
  AEU urges governments to acknowledge and address Australia’s deeply gendered cultural and
  institutional assumptions of work and care.

  Australia’s early industrial institutions and norms reflected the prevailing division of labour by
  gender, and particularly reflected perceived gender-appropriate roles: men as paid, formal
  workers, and women as unpaid, informal carers. This gendered division of labour was a cultural
  ideal, and even during this period failed to account for the large minority of Australian women
  working in paid employment until the mid-20th century.1 Institutional support for this ideal is
  demonstrated in two key early decisions of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
  Arbitration (“CCCA”). In 1907, in the landmark “Harvester Case”, the CCCA found that a
  “fair and reasonable wage” was to be determined by reference to the quality of life available to
  family with a male breadwinner, a dependent wife, and three children.2 Subsequently, in 1912
  and 1919, the CCCA in the “Fruit Pickers” and “Clothing Trades Case” set a “living wage” for

1 Frane R, Kealey L, and Sangster J, ‘Women and Wage Labour in Australia and Canada, 1880-1980’, Australia
and Canada: Labour Compared, November 1996, 71, p 54.
2 Ex parte H. V. McKay, (1907) 2 CAR 1.

  AEUSubmission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                             2
  women workers - finding that a woman worker required only 54% of the wages of a male
  worker.3

  Both CCCA decisions provided longstanding institutional support for patriarchal social
  attitudes, gender discrimination, and female workers’ economic inequality. Only in 1969 and
  1972, in a series of equal pay cases, did Australia’s industrial institutions resile from these
  previous endorsements of gender pay discrimination by implementing a limited form of equal
  pay for equal work.4 However, since the 1970s, despite women being protected from being
  paid less for performing the same work as a man, unequal pay between men and women
  persists, with the latest data indicating that the gender pay gap is increasing.5 Australia’s equal
  remuneration laws, intended to address this gender pay gap, have proven ineffectual: of the 21
  applications for equal remuneration orders since 1994, only one has been successful.

  For most of Australia’s post-federation history its industrial institutions have codified
  patriarchal social attitudes and provided for explicitly gender discriminatory wages. In recent
  decades, despite ending formal pay discrimination against women, Australia’s industrial laws
  have failed to reduce the gender pay gap. Australian women have and continue to be
  disadvantaged by assumptions built into Australia’s industrial institutions.

         Women’s ‘double duty ’ as workers and carers

  Over the last half-century, Australian women’s workforce participation has significantly
  increased, and continues to increase. Whereas in 1966 two-thirds of women in Australia were
  not in formal paid employment, and instead performed informal, unpaid labour at home and in
  providing care, today the participation of women in the paid, formal workforce is currently at
  approximately 62.2%.6

  Despite the significant increase in women’s participation in the formal workforce, there has not
  been an equivalent reduction in the expectation that women will perform more informal caring
  and unpaid household labour than men. Instead, women still perform more informal caring and
  unpaid household labour than men.7 This double expectation on women to perform more caring
  and domestic labour than men despite participating in the workforce at an increasingly similar
  rate to men burdens women with the dual obligations as workers and carers. Sections below
  provide further details regarding the significant negative social and economic effects of this
  ‘double duty’ on AEU members.

  The role of government in creating and addressing the work and care crisis


  This submission demonstrates that the crises of work and care affecting AEU members are
  driven by decisions and omissions of government. Accordingly, it is the role of government to
  take action to change its positions, and to address these crises.

  Most directly, governments have the power, as funders and employers of public educators, to


3 The Rural Workers Union v Renmark Fruit Growers, (1912) 6 CAR 61; The Federated Clothing Trades of the
Commonwealth ofAustralia v JA. Archer and others, (1919) 13 CAR 647.
A Equal pay cases: (1969) 127 CAR 1142; (1972) 147 CAR 172.
5 Workplace Gender Equality Agency (“WGEA”), ‘Gender Pay Gap Data’ webpage, accessible here.
6 Parliamentary Library, Budget Review 2018-19: Workforce Participation Index, accessible here and Workplace
Gender Equality Agency, Gender equality workplace statistics at a glance 2022, accessible here.
7 Australian Institute of Family Studies, ‘Towards COVID normal: Sharing of housework in couple families’,
September 2020, accessible here; and, WGEA, ‘Gender equality and caring’ webpage, accessible here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                             3
  directly affect the salaries, working conditions, and professional autonomy of its educator
  workforce. However, the majority of state and territory governments have introduced
  legislative or executive-ordered pay caps and pay freezes on educators’ pay and have adopted
  positions during collective bargaining that fail to improve teachers’ working conditions and
  continue to impose burdensome workloads and excessive hours of work on educators.

  Regarding the work and care crisis in post-secondary education, the federal government, as a
  key funder of post-secondary education, has over the last decade cut billions of dollars in
  funding from public post-secondary education - TAPE institutions. Moreover, during this time,
  as TAPE institutions almost entirely casualised the TAPE teaching workforce, governments
  failed to intervene in the affairs of TAPE institutions to ensure the secure, ongoing employment
  of this nationally significant teaching workforce.

  Regarding the elimination of systemic sexism and racism in the workplace, governments have
  failed to address the gendered pay and superannuation gaps in public education workforces,
  educators are inadequately supported in their caring roles, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait
  Islander educators are not properly respected and remunerated for their cultural and community
  roles.

  Regarding the proper funding of public education in bilateral federal, state and territory funding
  arrangements, almost all governments have failed to provide the funding required to meet the
  minimum needs of school students in public education.

  Accordingly, it has been due to the actions and inaction of governments that AEU members are
  experiencing work and care crises, which in turn negatively affect the right of Australian
  children to accessible, quality public education.

  AEU members’ experiences of the work and care crises


         Gender and age-based inequities in caring responsibilities

  The Productivity Commission, in an Issues Paper in a current inquiry into expanding the
  definition of carer leave in the National Employment Standards, recognised that carers tended
  to be women and older Australians.8 Carers perform vital social and familial roles, yet they
  have reduced opportunities to perform paid work: workers with caring responsibilities
  experience reduced earning capacity, leave accrual, and superannuation accrual.9 The AEU’s
  membership reflects the demographics of public education workforce: predominantly female,
  and tending to be older than the average Australian worker.10 The gender pay gap and gendered
  insecure work reduces the superannuation payments made to women, and increases women’s
  financial security in retirement.11 Women and older workers, due to their unpaid caring roles,
  are themselves more likely to be exposed to financial precarity in their old age. AEU members,
  due to their age and gender, are more likely to have caring responsibilities, and experience the
  associated financial disadvantages and precarity.



8 Productivity Commission, Carer Leave Issues Paper, July 2022, p 3-4, accessible here.
9 Workplace Gender Equality Agency, ‘Unpaid care work and the labour market’, p 5, accessible here.
10 The Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership (“AITSL”), Australian Teacher Workforce Data:
National Teacher Workforce Characteristics Report December 2021, December 2021, p 46, accessible here;
Australian Public Service Commission, ‘All employees average age by year 2001-2021’ webpage, accessible here.
11 Workplace Gender Equality Agency, ‘Women’s economic security in retirement: insight paper’, 2017, accessible
here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                             4
  Throughout their working lives, AEU members with caring responsibilities must make
  challenging decisions about balancing their ability to earn an income while providing care: to
  perform both roles, an educator must either perform their caring responsibilities in addition to
  their hours of remunerated work; or change their working arrangements to alter or reduce their
  hours of work to account for their caring responsibilities; or, where neither option is possible,
  leave paid employment to perform their caring role. The pressure to take time away from work
  to perform caring roles negatively affects women teachers’ career progression - this is reflected
  in the disproportionately lower representation of women in educational leadership roles.12

         The teacher shortage crisis

  The breadth and severity of Australia’s teacher shortage crisis was recently acknowledged by
  Australia’s governments when, on 12 August 2022, Australia’s Education Ministers met to
  discuss and issued a communique acknowledging the crisis.13 Teacher shortages increase the
  hours of work and intensify the workload of the remaining teacher workforce. For teachers with
  caring obligations, these pressures exacerbate the challenges of balancing work and care.

  The AEU has long campaigned for a recognition and addressal of the teacher shortage crisis:
  the profession is becoming less attractive to prospective teachers, and more teachers are leaving
  the profession.14 This has precipitated both current and looming teacher shortage crises: in
  NSW alone, significant teacher shortages exist in key subject areas and in particular geographic
  locations,15 and it is projected that by 2030 11,000 new teachers are required just to meet the
  number of public school enrolments.16

  A mutually reinforcing cause and effect of the teacher shortage is the excessive workloads and
  hours of work performed by teachers. Teachers report performing significantly more than their
  contracted hours of work - working between 50 and 60 hours per week for a teacher in full­
  time employment,17 and the AEU’s ‘State of our Schools 2021’ survey found that the majority
  of teachers report that their mental health suffers as a result of high workloads; and most
  teachers report that they never or rarely have a satisfactory work-life balance.18 Consistent with
  AEU survey findings relating to excessive workload and hours of work, a 2021 teaching
  workforce report found that teachers worked over 140% more hours of work than their
  contracted hours of work.19 These deteriorating work conditions are further exacerbated for an
  older and feminised teaching workforce with disproportionately higher caring obligations who
  must, in addition to their work obligations, perform ‘double duty’ as carers in their family and
  community lives.

  The teacher shortage is driven by continuing the erosion of teachers’ working conditions.
  Nationally, teachers’ average weekly hours of work has now reached 57 hours - far beyond the




12 Above n 10, AITSL, p 167, accessible here.
13 Education Ministers Meeting Communique, ‘National Action Plan on Teacher Shortage’, 12 August 2022,
accessible here.
14 Gallop G. AC (Chair), Valuing the Teaching Profession: an Independent Inquiry, February 2021, p 90, accessible
here.
15 Ibid, p 91.
16 Rorris A., ‘Impact of Enrolment Growth on Demand for Teachers’, NSWTF, June 2021, accessible here.
17 Above n 10, p 22, accessible here.
18 Australian Education Union, State of Our Schools Survey 2021.
19 Above n 10, p 22.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                               5
  national maximum 38 hours ofwork per week.20 Workload and work intensification are equally
  extreme, with hours, range of tasks, and work complexity increasing.21 The 2021 Gallop
  Report, the outcome of an independent inquiry into the state of the teaching profession in NSW
  public schools, found that new work processes and tasks include: higher administration
  workloads; increased contact with parents and students; increased mandated accreditation and
  professional learning; significant workload increases related to the National Assessment
  Program - Literacy and Numeracy (NAPLAN); increased provision of increasingly
  personalised learning plans for students; increased work expectations caused by rapid changes
  in technology (particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic); increased provision of student
  welfare and behaviour support; increased ongoing assessment reporting and data collection;
  and increased pace of policy and curriculum changes.22 Reflecting the even higher demands on
  teachers in school leadership positions, the Gallop Report found that on average school
  principals work 62 hours per week.23 Crucially, despite the significant increase in workloads,
  the Gallop Report found that teachers’ salaries did not proportionally increase.24

  The undervaluing of teachers’ work and the increase in teachers’ workloads was recently
  recognised in a significant decision of a Full Bench of the Fair Work Commission regarding
  the historical and current undervaluing of early childhood teachers’ work.25 The Commission
  held that the rates of pay for such teachers were never properly set, with the rates of pay failing
  to reflect teachers’ work value as degree-qualified professionals.26 In addition to recognising
  this historic injustice, the Commission went on to detail the increased work value of teachers
  in the sector since 1996, highlighting the increase in training requirements required to enter the
  profession; the increasing professional accountability (particularly greatly increased
  expectations regarding reporting and being accessible to parents and families); the increasing
  complexity of the work (e.g. outcomes-based education and differentiated teaching, with
  associated increases in documentation and analysis of students’ individual educational
  progress); and the teaching and caring for a more diverse student population (particularly for
  children with additional needs).27

  Teacher shortages amplify the crises of work and care for the remaining teacher cohort. The
  overworking and undervaluing of the teaching profession is a key driver of the teacher shortage.
  Accordingly, to address the work and care crises affecting teachers, teachers’ work must be
  properly valued, and they must be provided with reasonable workloads. In line with the Gallop
  Report’s recommendation of significant increases to teacher salaries, the AEU recommends
  urgent and significant improvements to teachers’ wages and conditions to properly respect,
  reward and value teachers’ work.28 Unfortunately, many state and territory governments
  continue to pursue public sector-wide pay freeze or pay cap policies. Such policies amplify the
  crisis of the undervalued work of teachers and are self-defeating and unsustainable, particularly
  considering the ongoing and significant increases to the cost of living. The AEU calls for state
  and territory pay freeze and pay cap policies to be abandoned.


20 Gavin M., Stavey M. ‘Why we never want to be in Kansas’, Australian Association for Research in Education, 18
January 2022, accessible here, summarising findings in Gavin M. et al, Teacher Workload in Australia: National
Reports OfIntensification And Its Threats To Democracy (Routledge, 2021).
21 Ibid.
22 Gallop Inquiry Factsheet: Workload, February 2021, accessible here. The full Gallop Report is accessible here.
23 Ibid, Gallop Report, p 103.
24 Ibid, p 126.
25 ‘Equal Remuneration and Work Value Decision’ [2021] FWCFB 2051, accessible here.
26 Ibid, at [645],
27 Ibid, at [604]-[644],
28 Above n 31, p 14.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                               6
         Educators ’ occupational safety, workers ’ compensation, and the impact of Covid-19

  Teachers and education support personnel are exposed to significant risk of occupational
  violence, gendered violence, harassment, and vicarious trauma, with the education workforce
  having among the highest mental health-related workers compensation claim rates in
  Australia.29 The risk of violence, burnout, and overwork has profound impacts on the teaching
  workforce: a recent survey of teachers found that more than half of the respondents found their
  job extremely stressful, and that almost 60% of teachers were considering leaving the
  profession.30 Illustrating the significant risks teachers experience at work, a recent decision by
  WorkSafe ACT found that due to high risk of occupational violence, teacher shortages, and fire
  risks a secondary school was ordered to prevent all students from multiple year levels from
  attending school, forcing the school into remote learning pending the safety issues being
  addressed.31

   Covid-19 has exacerbated the pre-existing mental health risks to educators. During the
   pandemic, the education workforce has been exposed to increased risk of stress, exhaustion,
   and anxiety.32 Indeed, in Victoria in 2020, teachers were the most likely workers to lodge
   mental health-related workers’ compensation claims due to the impact of the pandemic.33 The
   high risk to educators is amplified by the gendered harms of the pandemic - international
   research indicating that women experienced higher mental health risks during the pandemic
   due to, among other factors, increased domestic and caring obligations.34 Women in Australian
   households with children reported spending approximately 43 more hours per week on
   childcare during the pandemic than men.35 This inequity was further exacerbated for women
   teachers who were often simultaneously attempting to teach online whilst also managing the
   care and remote learning of their own children. The COVID-19 pandemic has amplified the
   risks of workplace injuries to teachers and has amplified the health and safety risks experienced
   by teachers at work prior to the pandemic. The cost of these risks is evident in the results of the
   State of our Schools survey. Nearly nine in 10 teachers (87%) said that the pandemic had
   impacted on their home of family life over the last 18 months and 83% said that it impacted on
   their personal morale at work, mirroring teacher’s views on overall workforce morale as
   presented above. 84% of teachers said that teacher wellbeing has declined and 84% also said
   that teacher morale has declined, with 41% saying morale has significantly declined.

         A properly funded, securely employed TAPE workforce is needed to train Australia’s
         growing early childhood education and aged care workforces

   Australia’s work and care crises can only be addressed by supporting AEU members in TAPE


29 Productivity Commission, Report: Mental Health (Overview), June 2020, p 51, accessible here.
30 Carroll A, et al, ‘Teacher stress and burnout in Australia: examining the role’, Social Psychology of Education,
February 2022, accessible here.
31 ABC News, ‘Students at Calwell High School forced into remote learning after WorkSafe ACT details fighting,
assaults on campus’, 6 April 2022, accessible here.
32 Beames J, Christensen H and Werner-Seidler A, ‘School Teachers: The Forgotten Frontline Workers of COVID-
19’, Australian Psychiatry, April 2021, accessible here.
33 ABC News, ‘Victorian teachers lodge more workcover claims for impacts of coronavirus pandemic than any
other profession’, 10 August 2020, accessible here.
34 Di Blasi, et al, ‘Factors Related to Women’s Psychological Distress during the COVID-19 Pandemic: Evidence
from a Two-Wave Longitudinal Study’, International Journal ofEnvironmental Research and Public Health,
November 2021, accessible here.
35 Johnston R, Mohammed A, and van der Linden C, ‘Evidence of Exacerbated Gender Inequality in Child Care
Obligations in Canada and Australia during the COVID-19 Pandemic’, December 2020, Politics & Gender, 16:4, p
1131, accessible here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                                  7
  to train our future caring workforces. In addition to the above-discussed teacher and education
  support personnel shortages, the National Skills Priority List 2022 identifies early childhood
  educators and aged carers in its 10 most in-demand professions over the next five years.36 The
  Australian Children’s Education & Care Quality Authority estimates that the early childhood
  sector will require an additional 16,000 educators by November 2025.37

  Only properly funded, securely employed TAPE teachers can provide quality, accessible
  education to the diverse communities needed to join these education and caring workforces.
  TAPE is the centrepiece of Australian vocational education and training system, and TAPE
  makes broad, significant contributions to Australia’s broad social and economic development,
  particularly in response to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. TAPE promotes regional
  labour market outcomes, bridges access to jobs pathways, promotes social cohesion, reduces
  income inequality, and compared to other VET providers, provides greater access to and better
  supported education for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students and students with
  disability.38

  Unfortunately, TAPE has experienced significant funding cuts and the casualisation of its
  workforce. In the past decade, billions of dollars of federal funding has been cut from TAPE
  institutions, intensifying in the period of 2018-2021, when the federal government cut $438
  million from TAPE funding.39 During this period TAPE institutions have casualised their TAPE
  teacher workforce: for example, in 2010, in TAPE NSW, 73% of its teaching workforce was
  engaged in casual or sessional employment,40 and employer demand for casual and temporary
  forms of employment in the TAPE sector is increasing.41 TAPE teachers report exceedingly
  long duration of casual contracts, with reports of workers engaged for 10, even 20 years in
  casual employment arrangements.

  Nevertheless, in its significant 2020 report regarding the contribution of TAPE to Australia’s
  national wealth and wellbeing, the Centre for Future Work at the Australia Institute found that,
  despite years of significant funding cuts and “policy vandalism”, the TAPE system continues
  to make a strong and disproportionate economic and social contribution to Australia.42 The
  AEU supports the restoring of the billions of dollars of cut funding to TAPE, and urges action
  to move the TAPE teacher workforce into secure employment. Unless governments commit to
  ensuring TAPE can meet the growing need for early childhood educators and aged carers, the
  same patterns and implications of the current teacher shortage will be replicated in the early
  education and care sectors.

         The work and care crises affecting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educators

  Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educators make significant contributions to public
  education, including bringing cultural and historical knowledge, proficiencies in languages

36 Women’s Agenda, ‘Australia’s top 10 most ‘in demand’ professions tell story of care work being undervalued’,
22 August 2022, accessible here.
37 Australian Children’s Education & Care Quality Authority, National Children’s Education and Care Workforce
Strategy (2022-2031), September 2021, p 11, accessible here.
38 Pennington A., ‘The Economic and Social Benefits of the TAPE System’, The Australian TAPE Teacher, Spring
2020, accessible here.
39 ‘Decade of neglect leaves TAPE with fewer courses and demoralised teachers — how will it lead the coronavirus
recovery?’, ABC News, 9 July 2020, accessible here.
40 Submission by the NSW Teachers Federation to the Productivity Commission Vocational Education and Training
Workforce, July 2010, p 5, accessible here.
41 ‘Safe and secure?’, AEUNews, 6 November 2020, accessible here.
42 Above n 38, p 8.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                              8
   other than English, an understanding of cultural and community context to the classroom, and
   improving the learning outcomes of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students.43 However,
   despite Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples making up approximately 3.2% of the
   Australian population,44 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples make up only 2% of the
   teaching profession.45 A systematic action plan to increase the number of Aboriginal and Torres
   Strait Islander educators is urgently required. Disappointingly, the Education Ministers
   Meeting Communique of 12 August 2022 failed to mention Aboriginal and Torres Strait
   Islander peoples, students, or educators.

   In addition to their positive contributions in the classroom, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
   educators have diverse and additional cultural, community and caring responsibilities. These
   roles and obligations must be recognised, respected, and supported by employers of Aboriginal
   and Torres Strait Islander educators. For example, the concept of family in Aboriginal and
   Torres Strait Islander society, and the related caring roles and responsibilities, are broader than
   in Western cultures. Among other actions, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educators can
   be better supported in their caring and community roles by increasing access to cultural,
   community and bereavement leave, properly remunerating and adjusting workloads to take into
   account the cultural labour performed and load borne by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
   educators; providing allowances for educators teaching in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
   languages; and training staff in eliminating racism and promoting cultural awareness.

         The crisis of underfunded public education

   In addition to educators confronting crises in their pay and conditions, public educators’ ability
   to deliver quality education within reasonable working hours and levels of workload intensity,
   and thus their ability to adequately maintain both their careers and their caring responsibilities
   is intrinsically linked to and threatened by the systematic failure of federal, state, and territory
   governments to properly fund public schools. This funding shortfall is demonstrated by
   reference to the Schooling Resource Standard (SRS) benchmark for assessing equitable school
   funding: the SRS - a concept introduced in the 2011 Review of Funding for Schooling known
   as the ‘Gonski Report’ - provides an estimate of the minimum public funding a school needs
   to meet its students’ minimal educational needs.46

  Australia’s public education system is significantly underfunded: by 2023, with the exception
  of schools in the Australian Capital Territory, all other states and territories’ public schools will
  be 5-20% below the minimum funding required by the SRS.47 By 2023 only 1.3% of public
  schools will receive funding which meets the SRS from combined federal, state and territory
  government contributions - this contrasts with over 90% of private schools predicted to meet
  minimum funding standards.48 The combination of cdmost all private schools and almost no
  public schools meeting minimum funding standards perpetuates and increases the effect of
  socio-economic status on educational outcomes.49



43 AITSL, ‘Spotlight: The impact of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educators’, June 2021, accessible here.
44 Australian Bureau of Statistics, ‘Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples’, July 2022, accessible here.
45 Above n 43, AITSL, ‘Spotlight’.
46 Gosnki D. AC (Chair), Review of Funding for Schooling, December 2011, accessible here.
47 Rorris A., The Schooling Resource Standard in Australia 2020-23, September 2020, p 5, accessible here.
48 AEU, Pre-Budget submission to the Department of Treasury on priorities for the 2019-2020 Budget, February
2019, p 2, accessible here.
49 Mitchell Institute, ‘Factsheet: a persistent link between socio-economic status and educational opportunity’, 2020,
p 1, accessible here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                                    9
  In addition to SRS funding shortfalls, recent bilateral schools funding agreements made
  between the federal, state and territory governments in 2018 and 2019, apart from the ACT,
  include an accounting practice that deprives public schools of significant funding. The
  agreements permit “additional expenditure items” such as capital depreciation charges and
  transport costs to be accounted for within SRS calculations for public schools only. These items
  have never previously been included in SRS calculations and are not included in national SRS
  calculations. This narrows the gap between actual spending and the SRS goals by an additional
  four percentage points and further reduces the actual effective SRS contribution made by each
  state or territory.

  The total effect of SRS funding shortfalls including the “additional expenditure items”
  provisions - in the 2018 and 2019 bilateral funding agreements, is that, over 2020-23, public
  schools will be underfunded by $19 billion.50

  Currently, the Productivity Commission is reviewing the National Schools Reform Agreement
  (NSRA) - the NSRA is the foundation for bi-lateral agreements between the Commonwealth
  and the states and territories, setting out goals for student performance and outcomes for
  students with additional needs, and minimum funding contributions. However, the terms of
  reference for this review exclude any analysis of funding arrangements or the impact of funding
  on the work and non-work lives of teachers. The AEU urges the Senate Select Committee on
  Work and Care to consider that the way in which these funding arrangements are and public­
  school funding shortfalls impact on the work and care responsibilities of teachers. To ensure
  that public schools are adequately resourced, all governments must commit to fully funding
  public schools in accordance with the SRS.

         The crisis of insecure work in public education amplifies educators ’ work and care crises

  Preschools and TAPE are all increasingly experiencing a crisis of precarious, insecure work.
  The insecure work crisis amplifies the work and care crises experienced by AEU members.
  Casual employees are unable to access paid carer and other forms of leave, and casual and fixed
  term employees lacking a secure job around which to plan their lives including securing regular
  and reliably accessible childcare.

   Despite of the permanent nature of most educators’ work, increasingly, teachers and education
   support personnel are employed on casual and fixed-term contracts. Most acutely, 72 per cent
   of new teachers are beginning their careers in temporary positions,51 and recent media and
   academic coverage has documented employers’ inappropriate engagement of teachers in
   ongoing casual and ‘rolling’ fixed-term employment to perform what are effectively permanent
   roles.52

  The Gallop Report made numerous findings and recommendations regarding the misuse of
  casual and fixed term employment in schools, and its particularly negative impact on new
  teacher accreditation and retention. Regarding the challenges of transitioning from provisional


50 Above n 47 p 8.
51 Sullivan A, Johnson B., Simons M, Attracting and Keeping the Best Teachers: Issues and Opportunities, (Springer,
2019), p 171.
52 Stacey M et al, ‘Teachers, fixed-term contracts and school leadership: Toeing the line and jumping through hoops’,
29 March 2021, Journal of Educational Administration and History, accessible here, and “Everyone’s bailing’:
Australian teachers speak on stress and uncertainty of increasing casual contracts’, The Guardian, 4 July 2021,
accessible here, and “It is unsustainable’: Guardian readers on the crisis of Australian teacher shortages’, The
Guardian, 30 June 2021, accessible here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                                  10
  to proficient accreditation as a new teacher when engaged as casual or fixed-term employee,
  the Report found that: “[M]any casual and temporary teachers struggle to have their teaching
  practice considered by busy principals when they are only present for limited periods of time”.53
  The Report recommended the restriction of insecure work in teaching: “In respect of staffing
  matters the Department of Education should address as a matter of priority staffing levels and
  processes that address the excessive use of temporary teacher employment, in particular of
  beginning teachers”.54

  In early childhood education, teachers tend to be more precariously employed than in schools.
  For example, in South Australia, whereas 81% of teachers in schools are employed in secure
  work arrangements, only 66% of preschool and children’s services teachers have secure work.55

  It is unfair that educators, despite performing substantively permanent roles, are engaged in
  casual and fixed term employment, and deprived of the benefits of permanent employment.
  Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated the public health-related effects of
  insecure work: educators in casual employment are financially disadvantaged when staying
  home sick without paid personal leave and are more likely to be compelled to attend the
  workplace, and more likely to spread the virus.56

  To address insecure work in public education and its impact on all aspects of insecurely
  employed educators’ lives including their ability to manage both their work and caring
  responsibilities, the AEU recommends that federal, state and territory governments: create
  meaningful conversion entitlements for the public education workforce; impose stronger
  obligations in on employers to offer conversion to employees inappropriately engaged in casual
  and fixed-term employment; amend the definition of ‘casual employee’ in the FW Act to better
  take into account the substance of employment relationships, not just how the relationship is
  labelled by the employer; and oblige employers to regularly review the use of casual and fixed-
  term employment in their education workforces, and to consult with the relevant unions when
  doing so.

  AEU advocacy for carers’ rights at work


  This section provides examples of AEU members’ successful bargaining and campaigning for
  improvements to carers’ rights at work.

        Improving personal and carer leave entitlements

  AEU members have successfully negotiated with state and territory governments and public
  education employers for improved carer leave provisions. For example, the Western Australia
  School Education Act Employees' (Teachers and Administrators) General Agreement 2021
  provides for 15 days paid personal leave (which may be used to take carer leave).57 The same
  agreement also provides for the payment of up to 12 weeks’ superannuation during unpaid
  parental leave, reducing the gendered financial harm of women disproportionately taking



53 Above n 22, p 15.
54 Ibid, p 11.
55 Department of Education, ‘Workforce Profile Issue 10 - June 2020’, p 4, accessible here.
56 Stanford J., Shock Troops of the Pandemic: Casual and Insecure Work in COVID and Beyond, Centre for Future
Work at the Australia Institute, October 2021, p 5, accessible here.
57 School Education Act Employees' (Teachers and Administrators) General Agreement 2021, cl 33, accessible
here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                          11
  unpaid parental leave.58

         Improving Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educator entitlements

  AEU members in Victoria successfully bargained for improved cultural, community, and
  ceremonial leave for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educators in the Victorian
  Government Schools Agreement 2022, including the provision of paid leave to attend National
  Aboriginal and Islander Day Observance Committee (NAIDOC) week events; paid leave to
  attend Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community meetings; paid leave to attend general
  meetings of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community organisations; paid leave to attend
  bereavement and other ceremonial obligations; and paid leave to attend the First Peoples’
  Assembly of Victoria, the body representing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in
  negotiations for a treaty with Victoria.59 This agreement also accounts for Aboriginal and
  Torres Strait Islander educators’ cultural labour and load by providing for reduced workloads
  or increased pay where an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander educator performs work
  requiring a cultural responsibility.60 This agreement provides for paid “Aboriginal Kinship
  Leave” where an employee provides temporary care for and is a friend or relative of an
  Aboriginal child, and “where Aboriginal family/community/culture are valued as central to
  child’s safety”.61

  AEU members employed in Charles Darwin University secured agreement with their employer
  to create an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Workforce Strategy, with detailed
  employment targets, consultation principles, and provision for a dedicated role in senior
  management - the occupier of which role must be an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander
  employee - responsible for its implementation.62 This agreement also provides for a multi­
  tiered language allowance for employees teaching Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
  languages.63

         Reforming pro rata-based yearly pay progression to better support part-time employees

  In workplace arrangements where an employee’s salary classification increases according to
  years of service, such progression may be caveated that part-time employees have a pro rata
  reduction in progression, due to their reduced hours of work. These pro rata reduction in part­
  time employees’ progression disproportionately affects women teachers, who are more likely
  to work part-time due to gender caring obligations. To address this inequity, AEU members in
  Queensland have successfully bargained for the elimination of pro rata salary progression.64
  Accordingly, in Queensland state schools, part-time teachers progress through the time-based
  salary scales at the same speed as full-time teachers.




58 Ibid, cl 27.
59 Victorian Government Schools Agreement 2022, cl 26, accessible here.
60 Ibid, cl 14.
61 Ibid, cl 26.
62 Charles Darwin University and Union Enterprise Agreement 2018, cl 5, accessible here.
63 Ibid, cl 27.
64 Department ofEducation State School Teachers ’ Certified Agreement 2019, cl 5.9.2, accessible here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                              12
         Improving access to secure employment

  AEU members in South Australia successfully bargained for the creation of Personnel Advisory
  Committees, school-based human resources committees with identified AEU representation,
  which make recommendations as to whether to convert a temporary teacher to permanency.65

  In Western Australia, AEU members in schools and TAPE have promoted secure employment
  by successfully imposing obligations on public education employers to disclose information to
  fixed-term employees about the nature of their employment and the reason why their
  engagement was on a fixed-term basis.66 The greater level of transparency encourages secure
  employment practices and allowed members and the union greater capacity to identify and
  resolve potential misuses of casual or fixed-term employment.

  Also in Western Australia, AEU members successfully campaigned for the publishing of the
  Public Sector Commissioner’s Instruction 23. This document outlines the WA Government’s
  commitment to permanent employment for public sector employees, including requiring
  agencies to adopt practices and processes that supported permanent employment wherever
  possible, limiting the use of fixed term contract and casual arrangements only for limited and
  specific reasons, and creating reporting requirements for how the conversion processes are
  conducted.67

  Conclusion


  AEU members in all sectors of public education experience various, significant work and care
  crises. These crises particularly affect women and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
  educators, who are structurally disadvantaged by outdated yet broad social norms and industrial
  laws that operate on the false premise that a typical worker is a male breadwinner with minimal
  care and cultural obligations. The Australia-wide teacher and education support personnel
  shortages are driven by government decisions and omissions that cap educators’ wages,
  increase workloads and hours of work, fail to provide secure employment, and fail to properly
  fund public education. These shortages amplify the workloads of and health and safety risks to
  the remaining public sector education workforce.

  The AEU urges governments to fully fund public education by restoring the billions of dollars
  in funding cut to TAPE institutions in the past decade, and by fully funding public schools in
  accordance with the SRS. To address the teacher shortage crisis, governments must take action
  to improve the pay and conditions of public educators, including by removing state and territory
  governments’ pay cap and pay freeze policies, and tackling insecure work by providing secure
  employment offers and conversion options to educators, particularly to new teachers and to the
  TAPE teaching workforce.




65 South Australian School and Preschool Education StaffEnterprise Agreement 2020, cl 3.5, accessible here.
66 For example, TAPE General Agreement 2019, see cl 18 and cl 19, accessible here.
67 Public Sector Commissioner’s Instructions 23, August 2018, various documents, accessible here.

  AEU Submission - Senate Select Committee on Work and Care                                              13
                                                                                     ANNEXUREI

                    Australian Education Union
                                                                                  Federal Office
                                                                                   Phone: +61
                                                                                    Fax: +61
                                                                                 Email
                                                                                  Web: www.aeufederal.org.au



                                                                               18 November 2022


Dr Mike Freelander MP
Chair
House Standing Committee
on Health, Aged Care and Sport
c/o Committee Secretariat
PO Box 6021
Parliament House
Canberra ACT 2600


Email:


Dear Minister,


 Re: AEU submission to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Health,
   Aged Care and Sport Inquiry into Long COVID and Repeated COVID Infections


Please find attached the Australian Education Union’s submission to the House of
Representatives Standing Committee on Health, Aged Care and Sport Inquiry into Long
COVID and Repeated COVID Infections.

Please contact me if you have any questions in rel ation to this submission.

Yours sincerely,




Kevin Bates
Federal Secretary
                           Submission
                              to the

 House of Representatives Standing Committee on Health,
     Aged Care and Sport Inquiry into Long COVID and
                    Repeated COVID Infections



                         18 November 2022




Federal President

Kevin Bates
Federal Secretary

                                       Telephone:   +61
                                       Facsimile:   +61
                                       Web:         www.acufcdcral.org.au
                                       E-mail:
The Australian Education Union (AEU) represents over 198,000 educator members
employed in the public primary, secondary, early childhood and TAPE sectors throughout
Australia. The AEU members in all three sectors have been at the frontline of the pandemic
in Australia since early 2020 and the potential for recurrent infection and long COVID has
impacted on educators significantly since that time. This remains the case with the emergence
of the current Omicron XBB variant wave of COVID and the resulting increase in infections
in Australia throughout October and November 2022. Thus, the AEU welcomes the
opportunity to present our views to the Inquiry. This submission will focus on the fourth of
the Inquiry’s Terms of Reference, particularly the educational impacts of long COVID and
repeated COVID infections for both students and staff in Australia’s public education system.

The impact on students of Long COVID and repeated COVID infections on students

There is a lack of clarity on the impact of CO VID on the long term health of children who are
infected. Early research in 2020 estimated the instance of long COVID in children at levels
between 2% and 14% of all infections. A small study of young children with a median age of
three years who had contracted COVID in Melbourne found that 8% had persistent symptoms
lasting up to 8 weeks, with all eventually recovering.1 Conversely a study by the Office of
National Statistics in the UK estimated that 119,000 children and young people are living
with Long COVID; 21,000 of whom are still experiencing symptoms after 12 months, with
two thirds of those saying that it significantly impacts their day-to-day life.2

More recent data collected by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the
UK Health Security Agency shows that 1.8% of primary school students and 4.8% of
secondary school students experienced long COVID following their most recent COVID-19
infection, taken from March 2020 onwards.3 Australia has a higher rate of reported COVID
infections than the UK, at 400,315 per one million people, compared to 354,830 per one
million people in the UK.4 Accounting for this difference in infection rates, and presuming a
similar prevalence of long COVID among school students, there could be over 46,000
primary school students and over 95,000 secondary school students currently experiencing
long COVID in Australia, more than 140,000 thousand students in total.5

Despite the ongoing difficulty in identifying and monitoring the total number of long COVID
cases, based on the extrapolation above there is no doubt that short and long term educational
impacts of long COVID on Australian students will continue to present a significant
challenge. As noted by OzSAGE “if many Australian children are infected, we can expect
the number of children affected by long COVID to be large in absolute terms, even if the
proportion who develop long COVID-19 is small.”6




1 Protecting children from COVID-19 and making schools and childcare safer, OzSAGE Working Group, 2021,
p.3.
2 Long COVID kids: Shining a light on Long Covid in Children & Young People, 2021, p.19.
3 Henderson, E., Survey data provides insights into how many students are experiencing long COVID, 2022, p. 1
4 Retrieved from https://ourworldindata.org/covid-cases
5 Retrieved from https://www.acara.edu.au/reporting/national-report-on-schooling-in-australia/national-
report-on-schooling-in-australia-data-portal/student-numbers#viewl
6 OZSAGE Working Group, Op. cit, p.3.



AEU Submission-House Standing Comm Health Aged Care & Sport Inquiry-Long COVID & Repeated Infections            2
The OzSAGE working group report Protecting children from COVID-19 and making schools
and childcare safer emphasises the absolute importance of taking all available measures to
protect children from COVID infection, despite the relatively mild immediate symptoms
reported by most children who are infected and draws comparisons between the measures
still taken today to protect children from historical epidemics. They state:

        It seems clear that we should endeavour to protect children, in order to avoid the
        potentially catastrophic outcomes of not doing so. To put this in context, we work
        hard to protect children from many illnesses that are mild in most cases. For instance,
        polio is mild or asymptomatic in 99% of children. At the peak ofpolio in Australia,
        we had 357 deaths in 1951. Now, 70 years later, we still protect children against
        polio. From 1956-1975 we had 356 deaths from measles in Australia. That is less
        than 20 deaths a year, and we think it is worth protecting children from measles.
        There were 290 deaths a year between 1910 and 1942from whooping cough. To be
        consistent with the high value we place on protecting the health of children against
        other infections, we must do what we can to protect the children who are going back
        to school unvaccinated against COVID-19.7

These comparisons are particularly pertinent in light of the political and societal impetus to
“get back to normal” and the removal of all but the most basic of precautionary measures in
Australia’s schools, preschools and TAFEs. Testing and isolation are the cornerstone of
preventing COVID infection and the relaxation of isolation requirements that mean that a
school can no longer compel a CO VID positive student not to attend will no doubt contribute
to a significant increase in infections among students and result in an increase in repeat
infections and long COVID among the school age population. Similarly, the recent cessation
of the distribution of Rapid Antigen Tests through schools will undoubtedly lead to an
increase in the number of students attending school whilst COVID positive.

As noted by many public health experts, COVID is expected to evolve into an endemic
disease with a prevalence akin “to the role in the infection dynamics of seasonal respiratory
infections schools may become reservoirs of SARS-CoV-2 due to their dense social setting if
sufficient protective measures are not taken to limit the propagation of natural infections
among susceptible individuals.”8 However, and despite the current paucity of conclusive
evidence of the impact of Long COVID and repeated infections on the long term health of
children, it is highly likely that repeated exposure to COVID at school will lead to increased
long term harm through cumulative effects of repeated infections and through an increase in
the prevalence of long COVID among students.

Current COVID mitigation measures in many public schools are not adequate and a lack of
capital investment in public schools since 2017 means that conditions are often cramped with
inadequate air flow. Despite State and Territory investment in air filtration systems and
despite the $32 million for ventilation improvements this financial year announced in the
recent October Commonwealth Budget as part of the larger School Upgrade Fund, the close
continuous proximity of school students and staff is very likely to lead to an increase in the
COVID infection rate in schools as the Omicron XBB variant wave continues.


7 OZSAGE Working Group, Op. cit, p.5.
8 Lordan, R., et.al, Considerations for the Safe Operation of Schools During the Coronavirus Pandemic,
2021, Frontiers in Public Health 9:751451. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.751451




AEU Submission-House Standing Comm Health Aged Care & Sport Inquiry-Long COVID & Repeated Infections     3
Previous studies have shown that asymptomatic testing in schools in conjunction with
“school gate” measures restricting the attendance of those infected with COVID at school is
effective in limiting schools based transmission of CO VID.9 The preventative impact of
isolation measures, regular asymptomatic testing, mask wearing, good ventilation, small class
sizes and well-spaced classrooms is essential to mitigating the spread of COVID in schools.10

For many families in public schools the cost of Rapid Antigen Tests is prohibitive, and a lot
of potentially causal moments of transmission are no doubt currently not detected or
recorded. The increased likelihood that children and young people are asymptomatic or
display mild symptoms exacerbates the AEU’s concern that many COVID infections in
schools are going unrecorded.

It is for these reasons that the AEU posits that the Committee should recommend that a
regular asymptomatic testing program be reinstated in all educational settings, and that
mandated isolation from the school or other educational setting is reintroduced for students or
school staff who are infected with COVID.

Supporting students with long COVID now and in the future

Current Government approaches to limiting COVID infection, repeat infection and long
COVID demonstrates a lack of concern for the health and wellbeing of students, teachers and
broader school communities. There are no established measures in place in public schools in
any state or territory to deal specifically with the impact of long COVID. Students who
acquire disability through COVID are currently required to be assessed through the
Nationally Consistent Collection of Data (NCCD) framework. The NCCD allocates funding
based on the level of the four NCCD adjustments being determined and delivered by schools
for at least ten weeks over the previous twelve month period. The lowest level of adjustment -
quality differentiated teaching practice - receives no additional funding. Essentially, this
category recognises when a student has disability but offers no additional resource to allow
schools to support them. The three loading amounts for students with disability that do
receive funding for their adjustments were based on per-student spending identified for
selected students in a national sample of schools. The loading amounts are shown at table 1
below in relation to the full Schooling Resource Standard (SRS) amount of recurrent funding
that each student receives for their education each school year.




9 Hargreaves, J.R, et.al, Epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 infection among staff and students in a cohort of
English primary and secondary schools during 2020-2021, The Lancet Regional Health - Europe
2022;21: 100471 Published online 24 August 2022 https://doi.Org/10.1016/i.lanepe.2022.100471

10 Altmann, D M, Children and the return to school: how much should we worry about covid-19 and
long covid? Cite this as: BMJ 2021;372:n701 http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmi.n701 Published: 15
March 2021




AEU Submission-House Standing Comm Health Aged Care & Sport Inquiry-Long COVID & Repeated Infections     4
Table 1:        2019 students with disability loading by NCCD level of adjustment




                         Base per student amount in        Supplementary     Substantial    Extensive
                                    2019


    Primary student                 $11,343                     42%             146%          312%

                                                              ($4,764)        ($16,561)     ($35,390)

    Secondary                       $14,254                     33%             116%          248%
    student
                                                              ($4,704)        ($16,535)     ($35,350)




The most common symptoms of long COVID in children are headache, fatigue, and sleep
difficulties, but a broad range of other ailments have been linked to the virus. They include
“brain fog”, heart palpitations, shortness of breath, joint or muscle pain, gastrointestinal
issues, anxiety, and orthostatic intolerance—a drop in blood pressure when someone moves
from a prone to an upright position.11 Based on the current criteria for accessing one of the
three funded NCCD categories, it is likely that, if indeed assessed as having disability, many
students experiencing long COVID would be categorized as requiring unfunded Quality
Differentiated Teaching Practice. Relying on the existing mechanism for meeting the needs
of disabled students’ risks many thousands missing on out the support they need to thrive at
school. Recent studies have predicted that the academic, personal and economic impact “of
the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic on a
generation of children can be anticipated to be extensive and long-lasting.”12

As the existing loading mechanisms in place to support students with disability are likely to
be insufficient to meet the needs of students with long COVID, the AEU draws the
Committee’s attention to measures that are currently proposed as best practice to assist
students with long COVID. These measures must be accompanied by a commensurate
increase in new funding allocated to students experiencing long COVID. The recommended
support for schools, as detailed by Davies et.al, are:

     1. A collaborative care model in which parents, teachers and doctors work together to
        support the child’s recovery.
     2. There should be a school “CO VID leader” who serves as the central communicator
        for everyone involved in the student’s care. This person can oversee the
        environmental and academic accommodations, disseminating them to teachers and
        communicating with the family and community-based healthcare providers. School
        will require additional resources to fulfil this duty.




11 Gewertz, C, Thousands of Students Will Face Long COVID. Schools Need to Plan Now, Education Week;
Bethesda Vol. 41, Iss. 37, (2022). P 1
12 Ibid.




AEU Submission-House Standing Comm Health Aged Care & Sport Inquiry-Long COVID & Repeated Infections    5
     3. Temporary and/or longer-term accommodations and adjustments for students,
        including but not limited to:

            a. a flexible attendance schedule with adequate breaks to minimise fatigue.

           b. Reduce physical activity and minimize exposure to overstimulating
              environments to prevent fatigue and headaches.

            c. Modify students’ workload. This might include, for example, removing high-
               stakes projects and nonessential work, providing alternate assignments and
               allowing the secondary students to withdraw from classes without penalty.
               Adjust assessments and grading as necessary to offset cognitive and memory
               problems.

            d. Provide extra time to complete assignments and tests so a child with brain fog
               can process information.

            e. Develop an emotional support plan for the student to prevent anxiety and
               depression.

            f.   Encourage the student to explore alternative extracurricular activities that are
                 nonphysical and not cognitively taxing.13

Davis and Messenger recommend adjustments for students with long COVID are front loaded
and gradually withdrawn as the student recovers, and they emphasise that “the symptoms,
recovery rate and trajectory will vary for each student. Therefore, a gradual and monitored
return to activity is important to help ensure that symptoms don’t worsen when students
engage in more activity. If symptoms do get worse, then accommodations should resume.”14

The AEU commends this approach to supporting students with long COVID to the
Committee and urges the Committee to consider recommending a national framework to
support students with long COVID in their education.

The AEU is clear that the resources required to support students with long COVID in schools
must be additional to those already provided through the SRS and its associated loadings for
disadvantage. A significant injection of funding will be required to ensure that the estimated
140,000 Australian students who currently experience long COVID, and the hundreds of
thousands more who will experience it in the coming years, are adequately supported in their
education.

Supporting educational staff with long COVID and steps to prevent repeat infections

In recent months the AEU has received reports of members in schools experiencing long
COVID who have exhausted their sick leave entitlements and have submitted workplace
compensation claims. The AEU expects that this number of workplace compensation claims

13 Davies, S.C, Walsh-Messinger, J & Greenspan, N. Supporting Students With Post-Acute Sequelae of
SARSCoV-2 Infection: Applying Lessons Learned From Postconcussion Symptoms, National
Association of School Psychologists Communique, Vol. 50, No. 1, 2021, p.l.

14 Ibid.




AEUSubmission-House Standing Comm Health Aged Care & Sport Inquiry-Long COVID & Repeated Infections   6
for long COVID from teachers and school staff will increase throughout the current and
subsequent waves of the pandemic, as repeated infections increase the likelihood and
potential severity of experiencing long COVID.

A significant issue for teachers and school staff is that although COVID is a distinct
workplace risk for teachers who spend hours each day in a single room with up to thirty
students who are a) more likely to be asymptomatic b) less likely to be tested than the general
population and c) particularly in primary schools and special education settings, less likely to
effectively socially distance or to make effective use of mitigating measures such as masks.
For these reasons additional workplace protections are needed for teachers who are diagnosed
with long COVID.

Under current guidelines it is often difficult to prove decisively that a teacher was infected
with COVID whilst at work. It is the view of the AEU that for teachers, other school staff
and all educators working in close contact with students, repeated COVID infections and long
COVID should be regarded as a disease where it is presumed to have arisen from workplace
contact, for the purposes of workers compensation, in the same way that similar clauses exist
for some cancers suffered by fire fighters and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is considered to
be a presumed workplace injury for police.

Recommendations


In terms of protecting educators from COVID infection, the AEU endorses many of the
recommendations for school staff made by OzSAGE, including that:

    •       All school staff are vaccinated
    •       Recommend all staff have priority access to vaccination and boosters.
    •   Use centralised IT systems to be aware of EGA’s that staff pool is drawn from and
        anticipate incursions
    •   Staff to be supported financially for testing and isolation periods if unwell. This
        should be at a level that removes any motivation to attend work while unwell and
        include casual staff and visiting staff.15

The risk of repeated COVID infections, and thus the risk of developing long COVID as a
result of asymptomatic spread among students in a school setting is high. To counter this risk
the AEU further makes several recommendations to the Committee:

    1. That regular asymptomatic testing of all students and school staff is reinstated through
       the provision of Rapid Antigen Tests to schools and to families of school students.
    2.     That the reporting of positive COVID tests for school staff and students is mandated
    3. That a secure and up to date database of COVID infections in school settings is
       established and maintained so that outbreaks can be monitored and contained, and so
       that the prevalence of repeat infections can be monitored.
    4. That public schools are provided with additional funds to engage a collaborative care
       model to support the education of students with long COVID.
    5. That the prevalence of long COVID diagnoses among teachers and school staff is
       monitored and analysed on an ongoing basis.
    6. That ongoing illness or disability of teachers and school workers arising from long
       COVID should be regarded as a workplace injury with the presumption that the
       disease was contracted in the workplace for the purpose of compensation claims.


15 OZSAGE Working Group, Op. cit, pp.17-18.



AEUSubmission-House Standing Comm Health Aged Care & Sport Inquiry-Long COVID & Repeated Infections   7
