Covid response submission              12th December 12, 2023.




I think it is absolutely vital that a Royal Commission into the Australian Government's response to the
pandemic be held. It seems obvious that the people of Australia have lost trust in their government and
this may be a way to gain a little of it back.

It is obvious now that we were lied to. Initially we were told that people were falling down dead in the
streets. This was clearly false as it never happened again.

Then we were forced to wear masks (who will ever forget images of police in Victoria forcibly placing
masks on people's faces - police who were emboldened by                       premier) They also knocked
over old ladies, arrested a pregnant lady in her pyjamas, fired at protesters and checked on healthy
people to make sure they were not leaving their homes. When have HEALTHY people ever been
imprisoned in their own homes before? Sick people should maybe quarantine, but healthy people?

Then we were lied to again, this time told repeatedly that the vaccines were safe and effective and that
they stopped transmission. Surely everyone can now see that this was just not true. Everyone knows
someone who either died or was damaged by the vaccines and vaccinated people continued to get covid
time and time again.

Then we were told we HAD to get this unsafe ineffective vaccine or we would lose our jobs. We created
a two tier society, where some people were denied access to work, shops, restaurants and services. I
know many people who were, as a result of this insanity, driven from their homes. People moved away
from Victoria, to escape the aforementioned ^^^^^^^■premier, or even fled overseas.

For me, as a Primary school teacher, it was heartbreaking to see the trauma inflicted on children who
were not allowed to go to school. The insanity of this blows my mind, seeing as covid posed virtually no
threat to children. The pain continues even now, as the "school refusal" problem is HUGE. The damage
done to our young people will probably never be completely rectified in many cases.

Looking back on it all, it seems quite surreal. It is hard to believe we were actually submitted to such
atrocities.

A Royal Commission would be a small recompense and hopefully followed by a huge apology.
