To the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

I am providing this submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response
Inquiry in the hope that Australia, a once free and fair country, will never be subjected to such
serious government overreach, medical tyranny and blatant disregard for human rights, again.
My submission is not a dispassionate one as I am writing on behalf of my friends and loved
ones who died, were permanently disabled or were severely injured as a result of the Federal
government's response to COVID-19.

My concerns in making this submission are that the voices of the Australian people will, once
again, be ignored and that the Inquiry is simply the means by which the government can
attempt to justify the adoption of the even more tyrannical World Health Organisation's
proposed Global Pandemic Treaty and new Health Regulation Amendments. I hope the
Inquiry's response will prove my concerns to be unfounded. I will address a number of the
Terms of Reference below and overleaf.

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal
Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

The introduction of vaccine mandates was perhaps the greatest and most egregious breach
of human and individual rights, as well as of the Nurenberg Code, ever experienced in
Australia. While it will no doubt be argued that the vaccine mandates were the responsibility
of the respective State and Territory governments, the fact that the then Prime Minister Scott
Morrison announced that the vaccines would be as mandatory as possible without actually
being mandatory demonstrated the true intent of the federal government. The failure of the
federal government to introduce anti-discrimination legislation like these two Bills here (that
failed to pass) further demonstrates its intent in supporting the mandates. Most appallingly,
the institutions which were established to defend and protect human and individual rights
against government overreach, such as the Australian Human Rights Commission and the
judicial system, totally abdicated their responsibility to be independent from the executive
arm of government and stated that they simply followed the 'advice' from government in their
support of the mandates. The people of Australia were failed by all levels of government and
also by the very institutions that were established to protect them.

The Nurenberg Code was introduced to protect individuals from being forced or coerced into
experimental medical procedures. It was apparently torn up and thrown in the bin of history
as many thousands of people lost their jobs because they did not want to participate in the
'experiment' (as NSW Brad Hazzard infamously called it). Tragically, even more people
reluctantly took the vaccines in order to keep their jobs (ie feed their families, protect their
marriages, not become homeless, etc) only to suffer severe and disastrous health
consequences as a result. Some even died but sadly, we may never know the true extent of
the deaths and injuries as a result of the experimental vaccines because the governmental
agencies that are supposedly in place to provide transparency, safety and accountability
actually covered them up. One only needs to remember the Therapeutic Goods
Administration's (TGA) hiding reported child deaths from its publicly available database to
highlight this atrocity. The TGA disingenuously stated that they did this to prevent 'vaccine
hesitancy.' How this marries with 'free and informed consent' is beyond me and the many
hundreds of thousands of Australians who were incredulous at the audacity of it all.

Hopefully, the Inquiry will act to ensure that these things will never, ever happen again.

Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and
public health messaging).

In addition to failing to protect the public from extremely rushed, experimental vaccines and
the associated mandates, both the federal government and the institutions established to
protect the public (most pertinently the TGA), prevented potentially life-saving treatments
from being made available. The TGA was responsible for a litany of serious regulatory failures.
For example, it is now openly admitted and supported by a plethora of international research,
that Ivermectin significantly reduces the likelihood of death amongst Covid-19 patients.
Despite thousands of people contacting the TGA to beg them to make the drug available for
Covid-19 patients, the TGA ignored the voices of the Australian public and instead did the
bidding of the pharmaceutical companies and refused approval for the use of Ivermectin,
paving the way for the experimental vaccines. How many Australian citizens lost their lives as
a result of depriving the public from life-saving medication? How many Australian families are
now having to live with the loss of their loved ones who could have been saved? It was, and
remains, unconscionable.

In relation to personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities and public health
messaging, the disregard for basic human rights in all these aspects of the federal
government's response to Covid-19 was unjustifiable. The federal government's failure to
introduce anti-discrimination legislation paved the way for a brutality never before witnessed
in Australian society. Members of the Australian public who dared to question, let alone
challenge, these tyrannical responses were censored, fined, chased down, arrested, physically
assaulted, shot at with rubber bullets, amongst a litany of other human rights abuses ... all of
which were unheard of in Australia until 2020. The federal government failed dismally in its
duty to protect the public and our individual and human rights. Censorship and propaganda
should NEVER replace 'public health messaging.'

Hopefully, the Inquiry will act to ensure that these things will never, ever happen again.

Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other
preventive health measures).

In relation to broader health supports for people impacted by Covid-19 and/or lockdowns, it
cannot be ignored that to date, the Federal Government has spent at least $18 billion on
hundreds of millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines, over half of which were binned. However,
the amount of funding made available to deal with the aftermath of the lockdowns and
vaccine injury and death pales in comparison. Suicide is one example and perhaps my niece's
daughter's close friend would still be alive if consideration had been given to the potentially
devastating impact of lockdowns on mental and public health. Furthermore, the treatment of
the vaccine injured is nothing short of shameful. The vast majority of people injured by the
Covid vaccines can't even get basic compensation because the Federal scheme is prohibitively
narrow.

Equally shameful is the censorship of vaccine-injured persons from social and other media
platforms, which has served to obscure the true extent of injury and death arising from the
vaccines, and to further isolate the already marginalised vaccine-injured. In addition, the
funding of major media platforms by pharmaceutical companies has served to prevent the
Australian public from having access to critically important information. In the future it is
imperative that all media be required to publicly declare when it is funded by the
pharmaceutical industry so that the public can at least be aware of the potential conflict of
interest in media coverage.

Hopefully, the Inquiry will act to ensure that these things will never, ever happen again.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of populations (including across
genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability,
First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
communities).

All mechanisms for future responses must ensure that individual and human rights, including
across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with
disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically
diverse communities, are protected and never again infringed upon as they were in the
Federal government's response to Covid-19.

Hopefully, the Inquiry will act to ensure that this WILL happen.

I also call on the inquiry panel to strongly recommend to the Federal Government that a far-
reaching Royal Commission MUST be held into all aspects of the pandemic response. This
must include the ability to prosecute any persons who through their mandates etc have
breached the human rights of Australian citizens. To not have a Royal Commission would only
 ead a thinking person to the conclusion that governments and regulatory agencies have
things to hide. Truth matters - we need the truth for the sake of the individual, and for the
long-term health of our nation.

Yours sincerely,
