I make this submission as a private individual who prefers to remain anonymous. I hold no
positions, or have any interests, that are relevant to the covid issue. I do however hold a degree
in the physical sciences, meaning that I would be more scientifically and numerically literate
than 95% of the population (including just about all of our politicians).

To me, Covid was a mass insanity, where the government and bureaucracy allowed itself to be
swept up in a media generated hysteria, and completely lost touch with reality. Covid showed
how deeply scientifically and numerically illiterate this country is, not just the general public, but
the institutions as well.

Personally, I was subject to the madness that was Melbourne in 2020 and 2021. I was never
scared of the virus, but the behaviour of the government during this time was frightening and did
more damage to people than any virus ever could have. Then there were the completely
ridiculous measures (outdoor masks being a notable example) that had no practical value in
stopping a virus spreading and were more akin to superstitious rituals than anything.

The lockdowns themselves had absolutely no scientific foundation as a way to stop a virus
spreading. How could they, when there have never been lockdowns before? In fact, lockdowns
were a crazy, extremist, and totalitarian idea that only regimes like the CCP could take seriously.
How did the Commonwealth government of the time not understand this?

Who was the Commonwealth government getting their scientific advice from in 2020? Were they
not aware that there were many prominent scientists who were skeptical of the covid hysteria
and advised against locking down? For example,                        of Stanford and the three
scientists who drafted the Great Barrington Declaration. Was it the case that our politicians and
bureaucrats are so scientifically illiterate that they didn't even know how to weigh up opposing
pieces of scientific evidence, and instead allowed the response to covid to become political?

Who advised the Commonwealth government that it was a good idea to impose rushed,
experimental injections onto the population?

I would just point out that the mRNA technology has existed for over 25 years now, and yet
there was never a commercial mRNA product released before 2020 by any company. In fact,
before 2020, mRNA never moved beyond the animal testing stage. So, there can be no doubt
that mRNA is an experimental technology with unknown long-term side effects. How is it that the
Commonwealth government did not understand this?

I would also point out that prior to 2020, there were decades of failure when it came to trying to
make a vaccine against any corona-virus. But then all of a sudden a covid vaccine with an
efficacy of 95% was developed in only a few months. How could anyone with even the most
basic knowledge of science believe this?

How did the politicians and bureaucrats within both the Commonwealth and state governments
come to believe that the covid vaccine would stop transmission of the virus? A belief that was
used to impose totalitarian measures such as the vaccine passports and no jab/no job. It is a
fact that vaccines piggyback on the immune system, and cannot do anything that the immune
system can't do. The measles vaccine gives lifelong sterilising immunity because the measles
infection does. But infection by a respiratory virus does not give sterilising immunity, and it is
possible to catch a respiratory virus within only a few weeks of recovering from one. Meaning
that these vaccines never had a chance of stopping covid.

So now we are in a position that was 100% predictable by anyone with even the most basic of
knowledge about vaccination against respiratory viruses. The virus is still in circulation and the
majority of the population no longer have any "protection" because they stopped taking the
shots a long time ago. Proving that the covid virus was never dangerous, and that there was
never any need for lockdowns or vaccine mandates.
