     My name is Pagan West, I am a Christian and have worked in schools for 35 years as a teacher and
     School Guidance Counsellor with both state and catholic schools. My family background is Ukrainian



                                              We are all very appreciative to be in this beautiful and
     wonderful country of Australia. My family really wanted to "repay" the kindnesses done in enabling
      us to be here, so ■                           •'    ’’ •    .          .       ' '




     So what prompted me to write a brief submission?

      Democracy is fragile.
       We have seen the manner in which during the Covid=19 era (January 2020 to May 2023) became
      like the Russian communism from^^^^^         caped.

          -   Infringement notices and fines for minor 'offences' like having a coffee in a park, or
              sunbaking or watching the sunset,
          -   Churches closed and shut down, persecution of Christians,
              https://www.eternitynews.com.au/australia/pastor-on-remand-after-church-defies-
              victorias-lockdown/
          -              Huge growth in Al technology to observe and watch others,
          -   The populace being encouraged to spy on each other for minor transgressions i.e. having a
              friend or relative visit them,
          -              Locking up playgrounds and barring families from using them,
          -   At home arrests for weeks on end, where you were rarely allowed to leave the house: the
              crime: just for being alive!
          -              Constant media attention to one topic presenting only 1 dominant viewpoint,
          -              'passports' to cross state borders or go outside 5 kilometre exclusion zones,
          -              'passports' to shop , to watch a movie or have a coffee on the street,
          -              Arrests of people generally considered non-deviant, such as|
              (https://www.fli.org.au/democracys-window-is-closing/
              https://www.spectator.com.au/2022/09/australia-died-when-zoe-buhler-was-handcuffed/)

      Massive police and army presence on the streets leading to significant violence (seeB8||S||^^
     documentary "Battleground Melbourne" https://battlegroundmelbourne.com/

•   Forced "mandatory" vaccinations in order to travel or work, and worse still: these shots were very
    experimental using RNA technology and have led to significant ill effects
    (https://www.tga.gov.au/news/covid-19-vaccine-safety-reports/covid-19-vaccine-safetv-report-18-05-
    2023) At this date 138,577 adverse event reports had been received and 985 deaths reported).

     I have spoken to many people who believe that human rights were exceedingly trampled, freedom
     to live and associate with others were curtailed and that going about one's normal daily business
     brought undeniable, sanctions and consequences.
It would be totally correct to state that under the Covid regime, we as a democracy were brought to
our knees and we were living in a '1984'* nightmare.
https://www.yourdictionary.com/articles/1984-themes

George Orwell wrote his novel "1984" in 1949 about a totalitarian government in 'Oceania',
which was loosely based on the USSR, whereby government control and sanction the
individual and religion, romance and relationships are banned. Sounds familiar!

Like many others, I cannot in any way rationalise these government actions above with
health. To me health is about eating a healthy diet, supplementing when necessary and
getting out into the sunshine and fresh air and exercising. Nowhere did I see anyone in the
media or in government circles talking about building up our own immune system so that
we could better repel a common coronavirus, which is related to the common 'cold'.

All this for our health!!: in house arrests; arrests; violence on the streets; official
misinformation allowing only 1 point of view; mandates -aka forced injections of unknown
toxins leading to thousands of injury and deaths; media censorship; silencing of doctors etc.



So my suggestion is "please do not repeat these totalitarian and draconian actions or force
the population to take an unknown, untested injectable drug!"

Also, here in Queensland where I reside I want to positively acclaim our premier (outgoing
today 15th December, 2023) Annastacia Palaszczuk.

When attending several peaceful protests here in the heart of Brisbane, we praised and
thanked the police. We acclaimed and clapped for them, supported them and really
appreciated their assistance in parting the traffic, being helpful and responsive. On returning
home and looking at the television, I was utterly horrified to see the level of extreme
violence in both NSW and Victoria, where the police were used as a weapon to cruelly
intimidate and beat, shoot and arrest hundreds of people. In fact, at the end of the
documentary Battleground Melbourne, the police asked the government to use less
violence and provoke less fear. So sanity prevailed (in the end) by public and police actions.




Please! It does not have to be the "1984" way! Protect our
democracy!
If I have learnt anything out of this, it is that democracy is fragile and we must strive to
protect it, by treating each other kindly, decently and respectfully. Enable choices and a
range of opinions to be heard. Throughout the Covid-19 debacle we only heard 1 voice and
any dissenting opinions or actions were promptly shut down, no matter how sensible and
rational they were. We truly do not want to see a repeat of the draconian range of
measures taken to harm, hurt, divide and destroy our churches, families and communities.
