Main Personal Impacts

My employment in Victoria was terminated in November 2021 because I refused to supply sensitive
private medical information. It was my lawful right under the Privacy Act and the Australian Privacy
Principles to decline to provide sensitive medical information, because owing to the threat of
disciplinary action for failure to provide the information, it was impossible to provide the
information freely as the law required.

This was by no means the only personal impact. I was exempted from wearing a facemask on
medical grounds. Stress over this from bullying medical professionals, clinics and a hospital, from
retailers and businesses, was significant and the stress impacts of that are still felt two years on.


During lockdown I had an emergency hospital procedure. The second phase of that procedure was
deemed to be elective surgery and I was required to have a COVID-19 test. I refused this on the
grounds that I had no cold or flu like symptoms, and the sampling for the PCR test was unnecessarily
invasive, painful and potentially harmful. The hospital then cancelled my booking and put me back
on the waiting list. Ultimately I had to take the test in order to be admitted to hospital and get
hospital apparatus removed from my body. This was coercion to take an unnecessary and invasive
medical test.


During lockdown I was prevented from attending the funerals of two family members.

Because I am rural, employment opportunities in my field of training are scarce. The
mismanagement of the COVID19 pandemic reduced our household from two incomes to one, and
forced me into premature retirement. This has had significant impact on our financial wellbeing.




Incompetent response to COVID-19 Pandemic

Since the time of my dismissal and in some instances before then, it is now common
public knowledge that

    •   the PCR test is unfit for diagnostic purposes and should never have been used at all, let
        alone at 40 cycles of amplification.

    •       Medical Practitioners have been coerced into silence under threat of deregistration

    •       the COVID vaccines were not fully tested; the testing was not due for completion until 2023

    •   the vaccines were never tested for prevention of transmission or infection as was claimed at
        the time the vaccine mandates were imposed

    •       some vaccine test findings were withheld from public scrutiny

    •   the vaccine approvals were improperly conducted because of the above points and because
        the approving authority is compromised by being funded by the pharmaceutical industry
    •         the Pharmaceutical Industry has been indemnified against actions for causing harm

    •     the vaccines adversely impact natural immunity and make recipients increasingly susceptible
          to respiratory illness

    •     deaths from all causes have spiked significantly and globally since the time of the vaccine
          rollout

In short it has become clear that the Australian Government at all levels, its Health Bureaucracy, and
the World Health Organisation to which they have deferred, are completely incompetent and
untrustworthy to make any decisions at all about pandemic management.


It is my general impression that none of these entities enjoys the confidence of the public any more,
and that is certainly my own position on the matter.


The Australian Government and the World Health Organisation and the Joint Standing Committee on
Treaties are not invited, not competent, and not welcome to dictate or direct in matters of public
health.



Necessary Remedy

For this reason I insist that a full Royal Commission must be held into the handling of the COVID-19
pandemic. This Royal Commission must have wide Terms of Reference that will allow all
stakeholders to be heard. The public must be given adequate notice to allow time to prepare
comprehensive submissions. This Royal Commission must make full and proper investigation into the
following list of topics:

    •         The use of the PCR test: was it misfeasance or a straight out fraud?
    •         Vaccine procurement, vaccine approvals and vaccine contracts
    •         Vaccine mandates
    •     Vaccine injuries and deaths, handling of death and injury reports, denial of vaccine injuries
          and deaths, gas-lighting of the injured, lack of autopsies of deceased vaccinated persons
    •          The sharp and significant increase in deaths from all causes since the vaccine rollout
    •     All anti-social measures taken: Mask mandates, social distancing mandates, lockdowns,
          curfews, and the restrictions imposed on all types of social interaction such as visits to Aged
          Care Homes, hospitals, funeral and wedding attendances
    •     Government and media misinformation regarding the ability of vaccines to prevent infection
          and transmission, on vaccine safety and effectiveness
    •     AHPRA's lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on the undeniable harm of the vaccine
          and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession
    •     Why the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza was disregarded
          after it had described why all of the actions the Government did take would not work and
          would cause hardship
    •     Why, two years later, it is still impossible for me to find work in my industry in my region,
          because employers continue to demand evidence of vaccination. How and by whom are
          Victorian employers and/or industries being incentivised to take a step like this when it has
          no basis in science?
