                              Submission to covid-19 response inquiry

I wish to submit the following information to this inquiry and ask that the following be made
public.

1. A number of my friends had severe adverse reactions to the covid vaccines that were forced upon
them in order that they a) continu^mployment or b) be allowed to attend their children’s school
functions. These issues included^^H and

2.1, myself, was bullied by my employer and told that I would need to have covid vaccinations in
order to continue in the employment I had worked very capably in, over a matter of 12 years up
until that time. I was always, and remained, one of the healthiest staff members in my workplace,
despite refusing vaccinations.

3. In December 2022,1 and another family member, caught covid-19 from two fully vaccinated
family members who were sharing the same home at the time. This is despite the fact that the public
were assured that the vaccinated could not pass on covid-19. The two unvaccinated family members
were moderately ill, I myself had two Panadol twice over the three days. Despite the fact I had been
assured that all the unvaccinated would be likely to die of covid-19 if they were unlucky enough to
catch it. Both myself and the other unvaccinated individual agreed we have had much worse flu
symptoms in the past.

3. As time went on, a number of my other connections and their families found the^uffered
adverse reactions to covid vaccinations, of varying degrees of severity, including
                                    also what appeared to be

4. One major pharmaceutical company providing these vaccines has a long history of falsifying and
removing cases prejudicial to their product, from their vaccine “trials”. This history can be verified
through a number of high profile court cases involving a huge number of damaged victims.

5. It is my opinion that Australians have been severely failed by successive Australian governments
in what appears to be a reckless disregard of Australian citizens. For instance, to allow any company
access to forced vaccination, via workplace harassment, bullying and coercion, and then to
indemnify that company from prosecution, is not in the best interest of the citizens of that country.

6. The fact that the Australian government have now been issuing payments for vaccine injuries
shows they are aware of the rates of injuries, including death. These adverse reactions are, in no
way, rare. People have communicated their issues to others and there are a long list of shocking
injuries and fatalities from the vaccinations. A further disgrace is that the compensation offered by
the government is being paid for by Australian taxpayers, instead of being paid for by the people
responsible; ie by the vaccine manufacturers and out of the pockets of politicians, bureaucrats and
employers, who insisted that the public must be vaccinated, in many cases against the better
judgement of those individuals.

7. Finally, it is well past time for the Australian government to issue a heartfelt apology to the
Australian public, and to assure them that this will never happen again. The government are also
responsible to ensure that any company, pharmaceutical or other industry, never are allowed such
unfettered access to the Australian population again. All industries need to be made aware that the
very highest of standards needs to be maintained and that, in fact, any lapse in due diligence,
whether accidental or purposeful, will be punished to the full extent of the law, and that the
Australian public suffering or deceased, from any such lapse, will receive the full protection of the
Australian government and support in gaining full and complete remuneration from the company
involved, to ensure that no company is tempted to take advantage of the Australian public again in
this manner. This remuneration should not be limited to any amount that the company sees fit, but
in fact, should be ascertained by the individual/s so damaged or, in the worst case scenario, the
families of the deceased.

Patricia Wheeldon
email
