I am an Australian citizen living in^^^^M QLD.

My submission is regarding the unacceptable overreach by government (particularly) during the so-
called covid pandemic. The absolute low-point - an absolute black page in Australian history - was
the (coordinated?) decision by all Australian states and territories to break a raft of Australian laws,
most importantly anti-discrimination laws, by prohibiting people who decided not to be injected with
experimental chemicals (also known as "covidl9 vaccines") from entering restaurants, cinemas,
museums and other public places. The last time we saw measures like these taken was in a European
country about 85 years ago and that did not end well.

Another law that was broken was the law ensuring free travel between the states of Australia
(section 92 of the Australian Constitution), by illegally closing borders and stopping Australian
citizens from returning to their own home and inhumanely stopping people from attending their
loved ones dying moments or their funeral. No evidence has ever been presented that these cruel
and tyrannical measures did anything to slow "the spread" of this so-called virus, which had the
exact same characteristics, mortality and symptoms as influenza, for which such measures have
never been contemplated in the past.

The dangerous injections that were (and are still being) pushed on society have not done anything to
stop the spread, nor to stop people from getting covid. In fact, the number of covid cases
skyrocketed after the mass roll-out of the so-called "covid vaccines", together with the number of
excess deaths. These excess deaths continue until today and always peak a short while after each
vaccination or booster campaign starts.



Life in Australia was dreadful during the covid period. Not because the virus badly affected people
(the symptoms, mortality and disease characteristics were no different than those of the flu), but
because of the immoral, illegal and ineffective measures taken by all state and territory governments,
with the federal government, having the power to reign in any power-hungry state premier, sitting
idly by.

The behaviour of Australian governments at all levels during the covid period needs to be thoroughly
and independently investigated and a situation like we had between 2020 and 2022 can never, ever
be repeated again.
