To: The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel

December 2023


Dear Panel,

Please find following my submission to the Inquiry into the Federal government’s handling of
the COVID-19 pandemic.

I make this submission as a private citizen with an interest in public affairs.   My submission
is brief and of a general nature.

Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission to this Inquiry.

Yours faithfully,

David A W Miller.
                                        SUBMISSION

      Inquiry into the Federal Government’s Handling of the COVID-19 Pandemic


I think that the main thing that we can learn from this review is the dangers of overreacting to
an event such as the recent pandemic.

While it is much easier to be wise in hindsight, when the relative severity and consequences
of such an event can be seen more clearly, at the height of the pandemic the governmental
responses to the pandemic were what might be expected in a military emergency where
Australia was under military attack or invasion.

From the Prime Minister of the day taking on multiple portfolios (apparently in case he had to
declare martial law and dictate multiple policies), to the various lockdowns and mask and
vaccination mandates, the response was too heavy handed.

(Of course, had hindsight concluded that the governmental response was inadequate, then
the government would have been criticised for that too!)

The lockdowns, and vaccination and mask mandates, did not seem to be particularly
effective in preventing the spread of the virus, and countries that did not use these measures
did not fare much worse (some say they fared better).

Furthermore, these measures did a lot of economic damage, and tilted business activity
away from small business towards big business (many small businesses had to temporarily
or permanently close due to the lockdowns).

So, all these measures combined might possibly have done more nett harm than nett good.

Concerning the vaccinations specifically, these probably did prevent some deaths and some
people from becoming more seriously ill. But they were not as safe as we were first led to
believe - some people have been permanently injured by the Covid vaccines, and some
have even died from them.

I think it would have been better not to have mandated that people had to be vaccinated to
perform certain work or activities. Mandating that people wear masks had fewer potential
dangers, but the effectiveness of masks is still debated.

So, I would suggest that the government have in reserve a plan of exactly how to respond to
any future pandemic. God willing, I hope there will be no such future event.

Thank you.
