COVID - 19 Response Inquiry.

My name is               an Australian citizen and I am respectfully writing to you
about my concerns with Covid-19 response.

The Australian government committed its self to the crown to honour and obey the
laws of this nation and the rules. Over the last 4 years we know from bitter
experience that the cabal of health experts and premiers who sought to control the
Covid-19 narrative were all capable of making grave mistakes.

Until the reality of those mistakes is acknowledged, understood and decisions are
made to revert to the evidence based pandemic plans that were ignored in the
response to Covid-19, any future response will be fatally flawed.

Australia's Prime Minister Anthony Albanese promised a 'Royal Commission' into
Australia's pandemic repose to Covid-19 in his pre-election speech. Since he assumed
office on 23rd May 2022, finally he announced a decision in September 2023 to call an
enquiry into Australia's pandemic management but not critically examine the role of
state governments. The "fallout continues" just more broken promises.
Every level of government should always be fully transparent, able to be audited
unannounced and without objection and be fully accountable to the people.

We need a Royal Commission because that's the only body really that has the power
to dig deep here, we don't want some superficial faculty inquiry that does everything
other than try to get to the real truth.

To ensure that this enquiry is truly fair and independent, it must be conducted by
individuals who have no ties to government and the pharmaceutical industry. It must
also be preceded by a period of public consultation that enables interested parties to
have their say on the terms of reference.

Accountability is an indispensable feature of our system of government. In the
interest of ensuring that the actions of our elected officials receive the appropriate
level of scrutiny.

Making the recommendation of the agency behind the Covid-19 response has just
proven their lack of ability to provide accurate and health promoting advice over
multiple recent health emergencies.

International cooperation's is not the answer to better health outcomes. Every nation
is unique, just as you or I are unique in our own way. One size fits all, approach to
health is not in the best interests of Australia or any other country for that matter
with very different climates. All nations should over see their own individual health
challenges.




                                            i
Correspondence I received from Minister of Health and aged care stated that the
Australian Government engages in global health forums, like the World Health
Organization (WHO), to better protect the health and well-being of all Australian
community. But under international law, Member States such as Australia retain
sovereignty regarding their public health policies. The WHO has no legal authority to
force countries to except any of its recommendations and can only provide aid and
assistance at Member States' request.

And yet, Australia had the worst health outcomes, because they followed the
international advice. Medical Industry acceptance and enforcement, via binding WHO
protocols, of experimental drugs, mandates of vaccines and treatments to the
exclusion of all else must never be allowed to happen on a mass scale again.

We will not accept a Government planning to hand our sovereignty, and many of our
basic freedoms, to an unelected international authority. Especially one whose second
biggest contributor also profited billions from the GMO/mRNA therapies many were
forced to take, with coercion and without informed consent. The truth, being exposed
daily, will need some direct, honest answers.

Worldwide excess mortality since the deployment of the experimental mRNA Covid-
19 "vaccines" must be examined to ensure any future response does not cause
extensive health issues and deaths. With climbing rates of excess deaths around 15%
deaths than normally would be expected in this country. Millions of unnecessary
deaths world wide from the experimental Covid-19 vaccine not including
undocumented suicides.

There is absolutely no recognition of the errors of the Covid-19 response.

Australians need our freedoms restored and we need society to be reunited. There is
so much heartache, anger, despair and division which is the direct result of the way
governments both in Australia and worldwide have handled this pandemic under the
W.H.O. recommendations. This pandemic has totally destroyed Australia, our rights
we're taken away to say good bye to our dying loved ones, was just so unbelievably
inhuman and beyound cruel. Marriages and families have been destroyed, lost
everything they have worked for their future of their families. An estimated 35% of
small businesses have closed down. These small businesses and our agriculture are
the back bone of Australia. Doctors, nurses, health care workers, firefighters and
school teachers with years of exceptional experience we have lost to spiteful
corporate dictatorship of Covid-19 vaccine mandates.

Best health practise, encouraging, not demonising, all long well recognised safe
treatments for any viral complaint.

Like all people, informed consent and the right to bodily autonomy are not negotiable.
Total disregard for our rights "respect for dignity, human rights is not a health-based
response or our fundamental freedoms.




                                           2
As an Australian citizen who is very concerned, heading into a dangerously and
divisive time for our beautiful country that our Anzac's gave their lives to protect our
freedoms, democracy and our Australia way of life. I am requesting that Prime
Minister Anthony Albanese listens to our concerns for the Australia people and do the
right and honourable thing by conducting a Royal Commission, not some superficial
faculty inquiry.

Three pages doesn't have credibility from the scientific standpoint, science is about
finding the real truth and freedom.

Thank you for the invite to make a submission on such short notice which is really
unfair on the Australian people, specially the elderly.




                                           3
