I would like to submit that the Inquiry should examine, in detail, the evidence basis and decision-making process
by which the international and state/territory border closures were implemented in 2020 and 2021, with
questions such as the following being addressed:


    1.   Why did the Commonwealth Pandemic Plan not recommend border closures, and why was the decision
         then made to implement them despite mainstream public health opinion indicating they would both
         cause harm and ultimately not be effective?
    2.   Was the decision to close borders purely a result of global panic and media/political pressure rather
         than actual sound health advice?
    3.   Why were no criteria ever formally announced for reopening borders, and why did the statements
         about when they might re-open constantly change?
    4.   How can the Australian Government reconcile the policy of border closures with Australia's status as a
         highly multicultural, globally connected society with vast international networks in all facets of our
         national life?
    5.   Why were the harms of the closures never really communicated to the public to help them understand
         that closing borders was not a purely positive policy?
    6.   What can be done in future to ensure, if border closures are implemented again, Australians can leave
         the country if they wish, and that those trapped overseas can either be supported appropriately or find
         a way home.
    7.   Should the Commonwealth have increased powers over interstate movement, with decisions on
         interstate border restrictions being made centrally in the national interest rather than left to individual
         state and territory health bureaucrats?

The Commonwealth's Pandemic Plan, as at early 2020, provided little to no support for border closures as
implemented by the Australian Government, nor for the constant cycle of on-again/off-again interstate border
closures. The decision to close borders, first to China, then Iran, Italy and finally all countries, appears to have
been made more as a panicked response rather than being based on any robust, longer-term plan to manage
Covid, and certainly not in accordance with the Pandemic Plan or mainstream epidemiological advice to that
point.

At no time was there any serious communication about how and when the international border would be re­
opened, and the statements from Government about this changed regularly depending on public mood and
politics, rather than science. Messaging about the border re-opening being tied to vaccination also changed
regularly and was inconsistent.

Even worse was the utter failure of the Australian Government to exercise any authority over the many
interstate border closures. While not the direct responsibility of the Commonwealth, these closures split the
nation into numerous quasi-national regions, each with its own border regime, for almost two years. During
that time, it appeared that states led the Commonwealth on all key policy measures, with "Australia" being
little more than a vague concept and a source of funding and resources to support whatever each state or
territory decided to do at any given moment.

The concept of 'Australian' as a unified nation, with people in all states and territories having responsibilities to
each of the others disappeared. For millions of Australians, the core Covid years, 2020 and 2021, were the worst
and most isolating of their lives, even as many millions of others seemed to enjoy being sealed off from other
Australians and from the world in a state of what was always going to be temporary security from a single
respiratory virus.

People were driven to, or had exacerbated, mental illness caused by loneliness and despair. Tens of thousands
were isolated from family and normal social contact, partners were separated, families were kept apart. People
were trapped in poverty overseas, people slept in cars for weeks waiting to cross state borders in their own
country. People lost businesses, friendships, meaning in life, hope. Many were driven to anxiety disorders that
continue to this day, medical treatment was postponed or cancelled. A horrible precedent for state control of
every detail of our lives was set.

We have heard a lot from state and federal health bureaucrats and health academics about how 'successful'
Australia's measures were. There has been absolutely no recognition whatsoever of the moral catastrophe
these measures inflicted on millions of Australians, and what's worse, many Australians think it was all a good
thing and would probably support doing it all again.

The stories of so many people who suffered absurd cruelty from a nation we thought was fair, reasonable and
humane need to be told. Almost four years since it all began, Australia may have done better than many parts
of the world in terms of Covid-related fatalities so far, although it is increasingly apparent that many societies
like Norway, Denmark and Finland did not do significantly worse, and those societies didn't totally destroy
normal social functioning, nor did they torment tens of thousands of their own citizens who had the misfortune
to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.

In light of that, I submit the following should be a key part of the Inquiry's focus:


The effects of the international border closure

Australia is a multi-cultural, multi-ethnic society with ties to every country on earth. It was never feasible to
close the world off indefinitely yet it seems the international border was closed in early 2020 with no clear plan
for how it would ever be reopened. There must be a full assessment of the full spectrum of harms and benefits
this extended border closure caused to all of us, in all aspects of our lives, including health, economic, social,
cultural and personal. We need to know clearly what worked, what didn't and why, to ensure that this does not
become a "safe", politically convenient reaction to all future diseases.


Even since the international border was re-opened there have been calls for border closures for Foot and Mouth
Disease, for Covid (again and again) and for Legionella in Argentina. If we are ever going to take this immense
step again, we need to know why, how it will be carried out, what we can and will achieve from it, and when it
will end. We as a nation cannot afford the "plunge in and see what happens" approach we were subject to in
2020 and 2021.


In particular, I ask that the following matters be considered in detail:


    •   The requirement to apply to the Government for permission to leave Australia must never again be
        implemented. Everyone should have the right to exit a country, for any reason and at any time,
        regardless of their nationality, unless they are involved in a criminal proceeding. This was a
        fundamental breach of a basic right of every human being to leave a place they no longer wish to
        remain. I understand the reason was to a) reduce the demand on consular services abroad at a time of
        increased demand and reduced ability to provide those services, and b) reduce the pipeline of those
        who would then seek to return back into an already stretched quarantine program. However, once a
        state takes upon itself the power to grant the ability to exit as a privilege and not a right, it has ceased
        to be a genuine liberal democracy. If this is ever contemplated again, there must be an allowance for
        citizens to leave perhaps with a waiver on accessing consular services abroad related to the pandemic,
        or an acknowledgement of lower priority if they then seek to re-enter through a quarantine program.
    •   The racist ban on Australian citizens, mostly of Indian ancestry, returning home during 2021. Australian
        citizens must always, under all circumstances, have the right to return to their own country regardless
        of where they were when borders were closed, even if quarantine or other entry requirements are
        then applied. This ban was applied with little warning, well into a vaccine rollout when presumably the
        most vulnerable had a degree of protection anyway, and in a way that was not applied when new
        strains of Covid arose in countries with more European populations such as the UK with the Alpha
        strain. The Delta strain which was the reason for this egregious cruelty got in and spread in Australia
        regardless. Will we ever reconcile with our fellow Australians of Indian ancestry for the harm we caused
        them for little or no reason? Will we reassure them we did this not because we hate them but simply
        because we panicked?
    •   The callous way in which Australians, many of whom have family, friends and businesses around the
        world, were essentially left to fend for themselves overseas after March 2020. Many commentators
        say there was 'plenty of time to come home', but listening to the stories of tens of thousands of those
        who did not have plenty of time, and the heartbreak and misery the closure caused, as well as the
        on/off promises of the government at the time on border re-opening, would be a sobering reality check
        for the millions of our fellow citizens who feel Australia "did well" during the time of border closure.
        We only did so off the misery of many of our fellow Australians and mostly we don't seem to care. This
        has diminished us as a nation.
    •   The moral hazard the closures have caused. No one, whether a tourist, migrant, family member or
        business person can ever be really comfortable any more that leaving Australia or coming here for
        any reason or any length of time is not going to end in being stranded without help and funds with little
        warning.
    •   The false sense of security peddled to Australians by politicians and health experts about the
        effectiveness and sustainability of the international border closure. We need trade, people are always
        going to come and go, and the border closures were always going to fail eventually. Even a reef pilot in
        QLD caught Covid from a freighter navigating through the Torres Strait and spread it in Cairns. People
        needed to be told that the "bliss" many described feeling at the time was transient and that reality
        would always break in eventually.
    •   The selfishness of Australia (and New Zealand) following a beggar-thy-neighbour closure policy,
        meaning other countries, many much less resourced than we are, had to conduct vaccine rollouts and
        assess their effectiveness under pressure, while we sat back in a bubble waiting to see what happened.
        In fact, no Covid-19 vaccine could actually have been trialed in Australia for this reason, meaning that
        our border closure/Covid Zero policy implied the misery involved in seeing whether the vaccines even
        worked or not was always going to be borne by others, with us then opening our borders once we felt
        safe. If the tables are ever turned one day, and we are suffering a disease that is not widely spread
        elsewhere, will we be left out in the cold the way we left other countries?

Interstate border closures


•   Our country spiraled into madness in 2020 and 2021, with it being illegal for months to walk down the road
    from Tweed Heads to Coolangatta or Wodonga to Albury. Families and friends were ripped apart, denied
    being at the bedside of dying parents, children were denied medical treatment, careers were lost, and
    people lost hope. States and territories should be units of administrative convenience, not hard borders to
    split up families and loved ones in the same country. Apart from perhaps China, almost no other country
    on earth did that to its own citizens.
•   The High Court failed to uphold freedom of interstate movement during this time, meaning none of us can
    ever again have any confidence when leaving our state (or even our region) that we will have the right to
    go home. I know many stories of heartbreak and misery, and downright absurdity and stupidity caused by
    these random, snap closures. We need to hear these stories, get them on the record, and require all
    Australians to understand what misery and suffering underpinned the "great results" we allegedly had
    during this time.
•   We were all subject to border passes and other restrictions which were effectively equivalent to
    international travel for the best part of two years. This is reminiscent of North Korea, not a
    modern, progressive, compassionate society.
Thank you for considering these matters for the long-term benefit of everyone in our community.
