Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response                           Volunteering
Inquiry


Overview
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a profound and ongoing impact on volunteering in
Australia, accelerating the long-term decline in formal volunteering and changing the way many
people in Australia volunteer.1 Throughout the Australian Government's response at the height of
the COVID-19 pandemic, volunteering both supported the delivery of key services and helped to
mitigate the pandemic's impact on mental health and social isolation. However, the volunteering
ecosystem also required additional support from government, which was often insufficient to ensure
that volunteering could continue safely and efficiently. It is important to note that the COVID-19
pandemic and associated impacts continue. Recent spikes in infections in Australia caused by new
variants and renewed calls for mandatory restrictions and the use of personal protective equipment
(PRE) in some sectors demonstrates the enduring and detrimental impact of the pandemic.

Appropriate policy, based on a robust base of evidence and which supports new patterns of
volunteer engagement, will be crucial to the recovery of volunteering and to support better planning
for the role of volunteering in future crises, including the ongoing challenges posed by the COVID-19
pandemic in Australia. To support this, Volunteering Australia and the State and Territory
volunteering peak bodies make the following recommendations:

    1.       Include volunteering clearly and consistently in official guidance and messaging.
             •   In particular, the Australian Government should play a more active role to ensure
                 consistent and comprehensive language.
             •    The volunteering ecosystem should be consulted on how best to include volunteers
                  in relevant policy decisions.
    2.   Engage actively with the volunteering ecosystem to plan for volunteer involvement in crisis
         response as an ongoing activity, including resourcing for preparedness, not just at the point
         of required activation.
    3.   Provide appropriate and ongoing support to volunteer involving organisations to meet
         heightened demand for services and to engage volunteers safely.

Pol cy lessons from the panderr c
Volunteering, both as a meaningful activity for many Australians and as an integral part of the social
welfare and public health response to COVID-19, was not considered strategically in government
policy. Further, volunteer involving organisations, particularly charities and not-for-profits, have not
received adequate support to engage volunteers safely and effectively while satisfying surging
demand for services. The lack of strategic consideration caused many complications for the
volunteering ecosystem, the most significant of which are outlined in the sections below.

Volunteers in official guidance and communications
The inclusion of volunteers in official guidance was often left unclarified. Lack of clarity regarding the
inclusion of volunteers in official guidance caused frequent delays for volunteer involving




1 Research on the impact of COVID-19 on volunteering is available at
https://www.volunteeringaustralia.Org/research/covid-19-research/#/
                                                                                                 Page 1 of 4
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response                            Volunteering
Inquiry

organisations adapting their operations to comply with government regulations and to ensure
COVID-safe practices. These included:

    -   The mandate for COVID-19 vaccinations in key sectors, such as aged care and disability
        support, initially lacked clarity regarding whether volunteers were included. For instance,
        when vaccinations were made mandatory for residential aged care workers in June 2021, it
        remained unclear if volunteers were covered until clarification on 3 August.2 Inconsistencies
        persisted, as the AHPPC recommended vaccinations for residential disability support
        workers without specifying volunteers.3
    -   The definition of "essential work" during the COVID-19 pandemic varied across states and
        territories, creating uncertainty about the inclusion of volunteers. In New South Wales,
        both paid and unpaid workers in designated essential roles were considered essential
        workers, while Queensland explicitly excluded volunteers as "critically essential workers."4
        This lack of uniformity caused confusion and frustration among volunteers in critical areas
        such as hospitals, food relief, mental health services, and caregiving activities, impacting
        their involvement in the pandemic response. Full examples are provided in the supporting
        evidence attached.

Involving volunteers in the response to COVID-19
Early in the pandemic, there was little engagement of volunteers in the Government's response.
Despite this, volunteers contributed extensively to the COVID-19 response across Australia. Demand
for services delivered by volunteers, which include emergency and food relief, crisis support,
domestic/family/gender-based violence hotlines, aged care, disability care, and mental health
support, was high throughout the pandemic. In some states, volunteers also contributed directly to
the provision of COVID-19 relief efforts.

Better facilitation at the Commonwealth level could have increased access to these services
throughout Australia during the height of the pandemic, particularly during times of additional need.
This could have been achieved even through relatively modest policy improvements, such as the
consistent inclusion of volunteering in Commonwealth government advice. Examples of this are
provided in the supporting evidence attached.

Ongoing support for Australia's charities and not-for-profits
Volunteer involving organisations, particularly charities and not-for-profit organisations, are
essential to facilitating volunteering in Australia. These organisations were severely impacted by
COVID-19, and many have still not fully recovered.

During the early months of the pandemic, volunteer involving organisations were extended
emergency support, including the introduction of JobKeeper payments for paid staff in charities and



2 https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2021/08/covid-19-vaccination-mandatory-
vaccination-of-residential-aged-care-workers-covid-19-vaccination —mandatory-vaccination-of-residential-
aged-care-workers.docx
3 https://www.health.gov.au/news/australian-health-protection-principal-committee-ahppc-statement-on-
mandating-vaccination-for-disability-support-workers
4 https://www.qld.gov.au/health/conditions/health-alerts/coronavirus-covid-19/industry-and-
businesses/critically-essential-worker-requirements
                                                                                                  Page 2 of 4
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response                          Volunteering
Inquiry

not-for-profits, contractual flexibility for grant-funded organisations that were required to close or
change their business operations due to COVID-19, and Supplementary Volunteer Grants in late
2020.5 All of these measures assisted many volunteer involving organisations to remain viable and
maintain their operations in a safe capacity, and were welcomed by the volunteering ecosystem.

However, the JobKeeper payment was withdrawn before there was time for the sector to recover.
Resourcing is required to engage volunteers, and support to the charity and not-for-profit sector
could have alleviated this strain and significantly improved their capacity to engage volunteers and
to deliver services. There are many parts of the volunteering ecosystem across the country that are
still struggling to re-engage volunteers and reach the same numbers they had pre-pandemic.

Ensuring COVID-safe volunteering
In addition to heightened demand for services, volunteer involving organisations were obligated to
ensure that volunteer involvement was safe and compliant with public health restrictions.

Volunteer involving organisations were not provided with the resourcing needed to ensure
volunteering was COVID-safe. Already facing significant financial challenges, many organisations had
to create COVID-safe plans, and provide hand sanitiser, personal protective equipment (PRE), rapid
antigen tests (RATs), and other materials to their volunteers to facilitate safe volunteering and
comply with government requirements. The lack of support for these measures meant that
resources had to be directed away from service provision during a time of increased demand.

Leadership and engagement
Throughout the pandemic, policymaking was often inadequately responsive to changing
circumstances. Measures that could have preserved volunteer involvement, including those outlined
above, were often not considered. When asked about their engagement with government early in
the pandemic, many volunteer-based organisations reported feeling overlooked in the COVID-19
response.6 As a consequence, many organisations disengaged from the government response during
the later Delta and Omicron variant outbreaks. Improved leadership, particularly from the
Commonwealth government, was needed to retain the engagement and confidence of the
volunteering ecosystem.

Supporting volunteering during the recovery from COVID-19
Investing in the volunteering ecosystem is essential for Australia's COVID-19 recovery. Volunteering
has demonstrated benefits to health and wellbeing, promoting improved mental health, access to
social support, and community connection.7 Supporting opportunities to volunteer safely, and on
terms that maximise the benefits of volunteering, will be crucial to Australia's ongoing recovery and
response to future crises. Volunteers play a vital role in various sectors, such as mental health,
disability support, food relief, arts, heritage, and sports. Supporting their recovery requires greater
resourcing for both volunteers and the broader volunteering ecosystem.


5 https://www.communitygrants.gov.au/news/2020-supplementary-volunteer
6 https://www.acoss.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/Australias-community-sector-and-Covid-
19_FINAL.pdf, 62
7 https://www.volunteeringaustralia.org/wp-content/uploads/Evidence-lnsights-Volunteering-and-mental-
health-Final.pdf
                                                                                               Page 3 of 4
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response                       Volunteering
Inquiry


Authorisation
This submission has been authorised by the Chief Executive Officer of Volunteering Australia.




Mr Mark Pearce
Chief Executive Officer




Endorsements
This submission has been endorsed by the seven State and Territory volunteering peak bodies.




   VolunteeringACT
     an inclusive Canberra $       V ©
                                   volunteering           r-
                                                               volunteering
                                                               Queensland        volunteering sa&nt




                volunteering                      volunteering
                TASMANIA
                                         V        VICTORIA                    volunteermgwA




                                                                                             Page 4 of 4
