I am             mother ofchildren. My husband and I depend on his income to provide for our
family. Due to government covid mandates, my husband lost his job. He was refused Centrelink.

1) Governance

TYRANTS UNDER THE GUISE OF A HEALTH EMERGENCY




LACK OF EVIDENCE, LACK OF TRANSPARENCY, AND LIE

You state that the best submissions "are supported by directly relevant evidence, such as data and
documentation". How about you put together all the evidence the state and federal governments
provided the people of Australia to justify the brutal removal of our freedoms?

There was no evidence given to the people except for propaganda about daily case numbers. Where
were all the studies that had shown that masks d
showed the vaccines did NOT stop transmission?




The National Cabinet was also shrouded in secrecy.
                           There was no transparency.

SUPPRESSION OF FREE SPEECH AND VILIFICATION OF THOSE WHO OPPOSED

We kept hearing the chant of "trust the science" but were given virtually no science. Moreover, any science
that challenged the politicians' narratives was slammed as misinformation. Doctors were given gag orders
with threats from AHPRA. The Australian Department of Home Affairs made over 4,000 requests to digital
platforms to take down content related to Covid.

Those who questioned or challenged the narrative were
               The Victorian police force targeted independent journalists such as        and ordinary
Australians who disagreed with Andrew's               When people refused to be vaccinated, politicians
such as         labelled them as anti-vaxxers.

2) Key health response measures

The health response measures were pathetic. It was almost as if they were implemented for a purpose: to
force a vaccine onto people. The measures that were taken were all about removing freedoms. And, the
only way to get freedoms back was when everyone took a new gene therapy that was palmed off as a
vaccine.

LOCKDOWNS, MASKS, CONTACT TRACING

Zero covid. It doesn't take a genius to know this is an utter fantasy; a nonsensical and illogical approach to
a virus. Did they plan to keep everyone locked away forever? Did they think that the virus would just go
away? it's obvious that they buckled down on this policy as a way to justify their tyranny of lockdowns,
forced mask wearing, and contact tracing. And, these were all put in place to lead to a mandated
vaccination.
Locking people down would only be justified to initially gather information. No more than a week was
necessary. There was information already in the very early stages that covid worse for people with co­
morbidities and the elderly. There was no need to continually lock healthy people down. It was evident
from the very beginning that those at risk should have been staying home and keeping themselves safe
while health experts looked at ways of treating it. No politician should ever be allowed to lock people
down or restrict healthy people's movements ever again.

Locking everyone down negatively impacted people's immune system from lack of contact with others. It
affected people's mental health, it closed down businesses. How absolutely disgusting that these politicians
kept taking a pay cheque from the very people they locked away and robbed of livelihoods.

My son and I could not wear a                                            yet we were refused an exemption.
The GP told us they were only allowed to give exemptions for other reasons.
                                 I was still refused an exemption. This was not about health.

The health mandates were illogical. You had to stand 1.5 metres apart except when you're packed like
sardines to watch a footy game with the^^premier. You could dance sitting down but not standing up.
Unvaxed couldn't go to a restaurant but could go to a food court. These didn't make sense because they
were only designed to take away freedoms, not to protect our health.

SUPPRESSION OF GOOD HEALTH ADVICE AND OPTIONS

In order for the government to push the vaccine it had to remove all other competition, in fact, has the
government made the vaccine contracts publicly available to view? Just what did the vaccine
manufacturers require the Australian government to do? Suppress alternative treatment?

It would seem so, with the^^government's criminalisation of doctors prescribing hydroxychloroquine to
patients for covid. How dare a government take the option away for a patient to try a drug that has been
on the WHO list of essential medicines for over 50 years! It was obviously an ^Jstrategy to take away any
form of treatment that could help save lives. The only study the government referred to in order to try and
justify their vilification of this drug was a pathetic study whereby they used excessively high doses of the drug
and left treatment too late.

And, where were the recommendations for people to get plenty of vitamin D? It was known early on that
lack of vitamin D was associated with more severe symptoms. Our government did the opposite of
recommending a very easy and affordable way of preventing severe illness. Instead, they stopped people
from going to the beach or to parks. They locked people in their homes!

MANDATED VACCINE

This is a crime against humanity. Taking people's jobs away if they don't get an experimental vaccine is
coercion which is against the government's very own requirements for vaccination. People were unable to
see sick love ones, or even cross the border to see their mother on her death bed. The unvaxed were not
allowed in restaurants or movie theatres. The government did everything they could to take away our
freedoms in order to stab us in the arm with an untested drug.




                                                                                 And no politician should ever be enabled
to do this again.

REFERENCES

:https://www.theholocaustexplained.org/the-nazi-rise-to-power/how-did-the-nazi-gain-power/emergency-powers/

https://medika.life/pfizer-confirms-mrna-vaccine-never-tested-for-preventing-covid-transmission/
https://dailysceptic.org/2023/05/23/australian-government-colluded-with-big-tech-to-suppress-speech-on-covid-foi-documents-show
