Submission to Australian Covid Inquiry

Dear Inquiry Panel,

After an earlier career in agriculture in South Australia and cattle production in Solomon Islands, I
studied, inter alia, public health, including epidemiology and nutrition, and completed a PhD in
selenium in plants and humans. I have extensive experience of R&D in micronutrients in food
systems in numerous countries. My work on agronomic biofortification of food crops with selenium,
iodine and zinc, along with studies of orange sweet potato (for pro-vitamin A provision) contributed
to the                       Washington DC, Professorwinning the 2016 World Food
Prize, the de facto Nobel Prize for Food & Agriculture. In recent years I have examined closely Germ
Theory and in particular the discipline of Virology (an erudite reference for this is


I will be brief. There is a wealth of evidence now (including some summaries provided in the attached
file "GMO DNA data") to support my assertion that there was no pandemic at all. The whole thing
was a global psy-op/hoax, designed to advance world government by those who currently control
global finance, etc. It was obvious from the start of its roll-out (ca February 2020) that this had been
planned for years. Thei^wa^oomlinatioMoetween supranational bodies such as the
            funded by                al; most of the world's governments, the mainstream
media and large corporations.

The supposed SARS CoV-2 virus has never been isolated, let alone shown to be causal for even one
death. The so-called Covid PCR test does not test for viruses, as repeatedly stated by its inventor, Dr
            who won a Nobel Prize for this. It is a laboratory method to amplify fragments of DNA
and RNA. See attachment, a press release on the occasion of my second court appearance in late
2021 for refusing to undertake this fraudulent test. The charge against me was dropped. Had the
case proceeded, I would have easily exposed the "test" as a fraud in court. It is used to this day as
the foundation of the Covid scam.

There is NO novel, dangerous coronavirus, but there IS a dangerous bioweapon, in the form of the
"Covid vaccines", which some researchers estimate have killed over 45 million people globally to
date, along with many more serious injuries (see attached document). Astonishingly, many
corporations and government Health Departments (including SA Health) still mandate it for
employees! There are now countless lawsuits in progress globally against the "vaccine"
manufacturers and purveyors.

The bulk of the populace went along with this massive deception, trusting the government and the
medical profession, which clearly had been captured by Big Pharmaceutical (which I refer to as
"Harma"). The only way to prevent another episode of medical tyranny like this is to break free from
the baleful influence of Harma. The brilliant^^^^^l in                                stated that if
Big Pharma continued on its then-trajectory, it would succeed in destroying humanity. He would not
be at all surprised by what has unfolded over the previous four years.

"The Covid Coup" must never happen again. Clearly, Australia needs to sever its membership of the
WHO. If that outfit gets its way, there goes any semblance of health sovereignty for Australia...the
WHO would be able to announce a "pandemic" whenever it wishes, with consequent imposition of
medical fascist tyranny...no thanks!!!

Thank you for your consideration,
Yours sincerely,




Graham Lyons       B Agric Sci M Public Health PhD
