Submission to the COVID-19 Enquiry

The Federal Government legislated the mandatory need to be jabbed during the COVID-19 event
was most un-democratic. Instead of waiting for details, it reacted and rushed the law through. The
people's democratic rights were disregarded and knowledge of the failed polio vaccine of the 50s
were ignored. The legislation created the following problems that I know and had seen as well as
learned from others.

Some of these problems being:

1. Our Freedom of Choice was removed

2. The Freedom of Speech was removed and medical experts who challenged the dangers of
COVID-19 and its hazards were shouted down including renown epidemiologists.

3. Many lost their jobs simply for speaking up against their mistrust of the jab as it wasn't a vaccine.

4. The Victorian Premier termed the jabbed and the un-jabbed and the economic punishments to
be exacted upon the latter group.

5. We became a nation with different laws and rules regarding travel and visit that confused many
and created lots of anger. We became a Divided Nation.

6. The lack of Federal Ruling, many States took on a very heavy-handed approach against
"dissenters" who opposed the un-necessary violence exacted upon its citizens.

7. The level of fear and tension were escalating at each passing week as we watched the terror by
our authorities' violent and provocative enforcement in the community.

8. Many businesses were shut and the negative impacts are still felt today, and some never
recovered. Those without jabs couldn't work and left their industries and upon finding new jobs
refused to return to their previous employments. The Governments created this supply chain
shortage and disruption.

9. The undue stress and tensions within families were unbearable with parents needing to work
from home and at the same time now cooking more meals than ever, helping and watching children
with their school-work, and their issues arising from social isolations. Many marriages suffered,
and amongst members of the family also.

Personally, I couldn't visit my ailing mother in her nursing home with the long lockdowns, and
sudden lockdowns at every report of rising infection numbers. I watched my mother suffering
depression and this same predicament was common amongst others in the nursing home including
staff. Many resigned due to their refusal to be jabbed and others due to the need to be working
only in one location. The "open and then shut" operations was too much for others.

Then my wife and I couldn't visit our children and grandchildren. The isolation they experienced
was too much for the parents and young children who couldn't comprehend why they couldn't go
out to play like before. Some children now may be suffering with learning and behaviour problems
due to the long isolations. Now we are still repairing our relationships after the break-ups.
We couldn't go to church, a place that offered us all the care and love as well as do us good
with our mental health. Being older people, our rhythm and having the leaders and routine
were displaced with fear and more fear. Being a spiritual leader too, the numbers who can
attend to conduct for a video-broadcast changed from time to time, adding to the frustrations.
Then at funerals of those who passed away due to illnesses was most horrible-no hugging, no
close proximity, and only 10 people can attend. This was no comfort to those who lost loved
ones with such send-offs.

I find it strange to witness the effect of the increased jabs and its correlation to the increased
number of people getting ill repeatedly. This created another problem with many questioning
the efficacies of the jabs. Over time, the above problems were not resolved. I see the "cure"
as causing more problems than the disease itself. Now we realised this event of COVID-19
needs to be reviewed, it is a great opportunity.

It is hoped the Federal Government should not allow for this Health Issue to be adopted at
State and Territory level, and also not to allow for the repeat of the above. This includes
curbing the media not to telecast or broadcast yet "another strain" of COVID is on the rise.
The increasing frequencies of crying wolf is dangerous in the event the true threat coming to
our citizens.

Submitted by a concerned citizen badly affected by the events but not as much as the
infection.

Thank you.




12 Dec 2023
