Regarding: Call for submissions and
evidence to the COVID-19 Response
Inquiry.

Thank you for reading my submission. I will be brief.

My submission is about simple law abiding people and the impact of
Government policy on our life, health, work, finance, and wellbeing as
human beings.

I represent myself, my wife, my son, my daughter and her partner, and
my two grandchildren in what I’m about to say.

  1. We have all always been healthy willing participants in society. We
     work hard, pay our taxes, help in the community, and always do
     our best and do the right thing.
  2. The state and federal government response to covid destroyed us
     as a family and as individuals. We may never recover from the
     barbaric and discriminating policy of our public servants during this
     time.
  3. Because of government policy, none of us were allowed to work or
     participate in society because we did not consent to take an
     unapproved, experimental mRNA drug with no long term safety
     data whatsoever.
  4. Yet we were always all healthy individuals during the pandemic
     and we posed absolutely no health risk to anyone.
  5. We were all isolated, discriminated, excluded, violated, demeaned,
     castigated, and vilified for not succumbing to government pressure
     and coercion to have a medical procedure which had no safety
     data whatsoever and no explanation of possible side effects either
     short or long term.
  6. The experimental medical procedure was for a disease that had a
     99.95% survival rate and for a virus which for healthy people was
     nothing more than a seasonal flu.
  7. The experimental medical procedure did not stop the transmission
     of the virus nor did it stop an individual from getting the virus yet it
     was forced upon me and my family without any consideration to
     these facts and our legal right to choose what is injected into our
     bodies.
8. Mask mandates, stay at home mandates, travel restrictions, lock
   downs - none of these draconian measures have been proven to
    help stop the spread of an airborne virus yet me and my family
   were terrorized every day for applying common sense to health
   and wellbeing as opposed to crazed panic from state and federal
    members of governments acting like it was the end of the world.
9. Fear reigned supreme instead of information and sound health
   advise like take vitamin D, exercise, fresh air, good food, positive
   thinking. On the contrary, we as a citizenry were bombarded every
   day with fear and anxiety promoting more fear and more stress.
   We all became fat, miserable and unhealthy.
10.       My children and grandchildren have all suffered from metal
   anguish for being incarcerated in our homes for nearly 2 years. We
    have all suffered financially without compensation and we have all
    been made to feel like second class citizens yet we did nothing
   wrong and broke no law.

I believe good and informed government would have adopted the
recommendations of the Great Barrington Declaration which
basically stated protect the elderly and the vulnerable and to largely
continue living in society in the normal way.

This was not even considered. It was tunnel vision. Inject everyone
young and old. Natural immunity was not even mentioned. Vaccinate,
vaccinate, vaccinate - that was the one and only solution. How
absurd to think an unproven experimental chemical was going to save
us from a virus. It is so ridiculous it is hard to fathom yet because of
the insane governance me and my family had to endure years of pain
and suffering for no good reason whatsoever.

We are still suffering; it has not stopped.

And if it happened to me and my family, I reckon it happened to
millions of Australians.

Please do not allow this to ever happen again.
