Covid-19 response Inquiry



From the beginning of the alert via media (inappropriate), there was an unscientific approach about
pandemic originating from Wuhan. There seemed to ne a heightened fear based on a lack of
comprehensive information about the microbe and the threat it posed. Hence the authorities responded
with measures that were extreme and, in a sense, indicated they did not know what they were doing.
These directives of course came from the WHO which changed its advice continually. Now, a microbe
doesn't thrive in outdoor sun and fresh air, but the authorities issued directives to stay indoors, which is
counterproductive to mental health and normal human needs for connection and relationship. It also
denies the importance of vitamin D production on the skin from the sun.



The inconsistencies of wearing a mask while walking in a public place but then removing when sitting or
eating doesn't stand up to scientific scrutiny. The testing of the presence of the virus by a PCR test was
never based on the original set limits of the invention by Cary Mullins. The RNA does convert to DNA but
the test when performed at too many cycles, greater than 28 (according to the WHO, it should be run
for 40 cycles) was registering dead DNA fragments as positive. Even Fauci, advisor to the US
government said as much.



The directives to wear masks, social distance and vaccinate was based on fear and not rational common
sense. The human body has an innate immune system which is perfectly capable of dealing with threats,
Certainly people with immune disorders or a weak immune system do need to be extra careful, but this
was a blanket directive. There is evidential data emerging from NZ health and the Maldives and US (via
VAERS) that the mRNA vaccines developed were not fit for purpose and did not do what the public were
told they could do. It is doubtful and there is no clear evidence that any lives were saved through the
enforced obedience of the measures delivered by the state and federal governments. However, they
did have a negative impact on people's livelihoods, education, relationships and mental health and put
normal healthy people in danger when taking a novel mRNA medical product.
