SUBMISSION

COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Background

I am                     resident of Victoria. In the six-and-a-half years prior to the vaccine
mandates, I worked as a^^Jteacher in specialised subjects and was well regarded in this role by

students, colleagues, and management. It was a job that I really enjoyed doing and had no plans of

leaving. I did all I could to maintain a working relationship with my employer. I stated up front to my

employer that I could not take the vaccines for religious reasons, and they never considered this in

any process. Even after demonstrating (to my managers approval) that I could continue to do my job

just as effectively, if not more so, whilst complying with the requirements to work from home if not

vaccinated. Despite this they were determined see that nobody who was un-vaccinated could

continue to work for the organisation. Since then, I have had a lengthy period of unemployment (due

to mandates being in effect) and have only been able to work in jobs outside my professional
qualification                                 roles - which has nearly halved my income. I had to^|

                     move in with relatives to keep going. At present, I still cannot foresee going back
to work as a^^Jteacher or manager, as these roles would undoubtedly require me to act against

my conscience and religious convictions with no support from government to ensure my rights to

such work as I am qualified and capable to do.

Summary

The Australian Government's response to Covid-19 was a failure. It was disproportionate to the

actual threat of the disease and did far more harm than good. It utilised tactics of fear and

propaganda previously reserved to communist and totalitarian governments and has eroded

freedoms and trust in government. The government should have followed its pre covid pandemic

plans and worked to accurately inform, educate, and recommend (not force) measures for staying
healthy.

Government Narratives

There were many catchy slogans being tossed around as if there was logic, ethics, and science to

back them - while in fact real logic, ethics and science stood in stark contrast. For example, "safe

and effective". How could a completely experimental therapy with no long-term safety data, known

side-effects, and confirmed deaths be called safe? How could a therapy that does not stop you from

catching the illness, keep you from spreading it any more effectively than simple preventative

measures, nor keep people from dying with the illness, be called effective. How could a government
that clearly did not know or understand what was in these therapies refuse to consider their risks.
Any expert that attempted to share these concerns was quickly silenced, even if the issues they

raised were adopted to the narrative a few weeks later. Pseudo-science was enthroned and pushed

by Chief Health Officers, fact checkers who could not admit what was published by vaccine

manufacturers on their websites, and statisticians that were happy to manipulate data. It should be

thoroughly investigated what links Big Pharma Industry, the Vaccine Manufacturers, foreign

governments and their officials, International Organisations such as the World Economic Forum, and
Influencers such as^^^^Mhad in shaping these narratives and the approach to pushing them to

strict compliance.

Fear

The authorities were singularly focused on preventing the number of "cases" of the virus through

lock-down and isolation; no matter whether these "case" numbers would ever actually translate into

anything more than mild cold symptoms. There was no attention paid to the simple prevention of

severe illness through common sense remedies of good diet and vitamin intake, sunlight exposure,

fresh air, and good mental and spiritual health. Instead, citizens were locked in their homes, denied

the ability to worship God, denied the ability to run their businesses, or work their jobs or go to

school, see the great outdoors recreationally, separated from their loved ones (including those who

were dying, whom they would never see again), and suffered to a constant barrage of fear-driven

messages 24/7 with red-faced politicians telling off their constituencies for not getting on board with

the messaging.

Recommendation

The Government should have followed Australia's planned pandemic response (shaped pre-covid). It

was known early in the pandemic that the elderly, obese, diabetic, etc were at greater risk of severe

illness from Covid-19 infection. Those in these categories could have had home isolation, travel

caution etc. recommended to them, and been given genuine healthcare support if they were

infected. Everyone else, especially the young and healthy, should have been advised to practise good

hygiene (such as washing hands and staying home when sick) and, otherwise, should have been

unaffected and uninhibited by this outbreak. Masks could have been recommended to those who

were sick, when they needed to be out in public, but should never have been recommended (and
never ever mandated) to those who were not sick. Masks restrict oxygen intake, encourage the build­

up of bacteria and lead to the inhalation of microparticles. The government, as in past times, should

have recommended against healthy people wearing masks during the pandemic.
