              Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
              The need for an Australian standing pandemic communication capability

 A/Prof Claire Hooker and Prof Julie Leask, Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney.

Overview
This submission focuses primarily on TOR 2 (key health response measures), TOR 3 (broader health
supports), TOR 7 (community supports) and TOR 8 (mechanisms for future responses).

Who we are: A/Prof Claire Hooker is co-Director Academic Education in the Sydney School of Public
Health. Prof Julie Leask is recognised as the global leader in health risk communication and has
advised WHO, UNICEF, and National and State governments. We collaborate in risk communication.

Key proposition: Pandemics change the communication ask of governments1 and require best
practice risk communication to respond effectively. Crucially, this requires listening and responding
to communities. Yet most COVID-19 communication was focused on public health messaging,
informed by assumptions (more than evidence) about public views.

Our Recommendations:
   1. Establish channels for multi-directional communication. Most importantly, ensure dedicated
      channels for communities, particularly priority populations, to represent their concerns to
      Government. Examples include Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities; cultural
      and linguistically diverse communities; people with Disability; children/ youth and those 65
      or older; people with significant illness; and those who face extensive social disadvantage.
      These channels should be in place prior to a pandemic and rehearsed in simulations.
   2. Expand risk communication capacity in public health and pandemic response workforce
      through education and training.
   3. Embed research-based risk communication expertise in key decision-making bodies in the
      Australian Centre for Disease Control.

Definitions
The WHO defines risk communication as "the real-time exchange of information, advice and
opinions between experts or officials and people who face a hazard or threat to their survival,
health, or economic or social wellbeing."2 Risk communication requires community engagement,
which WHO defines as "engaging communities as equal partners in the creation of emergency
response solutions that are acceptable and workable for those they impact." The goal of community
engagement is communities that "confidently share the leadership, planning and implementation of
initiatives throughout the health emergency response cycle."

Risk communication involves governments listening to communities as well as relaying information
and advice to them.3 Multidirectional communication and community engagement need to be
operationalised through new formal structures, to achieve the principles for public communication
set out in the Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza.

The Australian Covid-19 response lacked expertise in, and prioritisation of, risk communication.
The Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza sets out principles for
communicating with the public in a pandemic. In certain aspects of the pandemic, these were rarely
achieved. This was the result of lack of risk communication capacity at the highest levels, insufficient
planning and rehearsal of plans; and the absence of structures and processes to operationalise these
principles in practice. There were limited mechanisms for governments to hear from communities
particularly during more urgent phases of decision making4 and risk communication and social
science expertise were not embedded in pandemic management decision making bodies such as the
Australian Health Protection Principle Committee. Risk communication is not 'downsteam' from
policymaking and is not message development and deployment. It is a distinct field of expertise that
studies effectiveness of emergency communication strategies and messages; studies successes and
failures to learn from the past; undertakes messaging experiments; and uses specialised methods to
engage with communities and involve them in decision making. The low priority accorded to
communication in practice was revealed by disparities such as between the MRFF allocation of over
$95 200 000 allocated for trials and treatments in 2020 while only $600 000 was allocated for
research in communication.5

Communication failures during COVID-19 were immensely costly. Misinformation and social
polarisation (particularly expressed as 'COVID denial' and lockdown protest) are closely linked
phenomena that pose the most significant threat to successful pandemic management globally.6 Best
practice risk communication prevents and minimises these expressions of 'public outrage'. Risk
communication expertise is urgently needed to respond to pandemics in the future. For example, the
Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza does not contain principles and
guidelines for communication within organisations, yet many workplaces struggled to communicate
effectively with their frightened, disempowered and increasingly outraged staff. This has contributed
to the crisis now facing the education and healthcare workforces. Risk communication capacity
needs to be greatly expanded to address these issues in the future.

Recommendations #1: Create structures for multi-directional communication.
Rationale: There was often a lack of data and consultation with communities about COVID-19
control measures. Particularly during times of rapid policy change, government actors would make
assumptions about the public capacity and response to certain measures. When engagement did
occur, it was successful, such as the early establishment of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
COVID-19 Taskforce. Hearing from communities during the making of public policy may have
enhanced decision-making about e.g., the vaccine rollout, contract tracing App, implementation of
public health orders, and how vaccines and masks mandates were implemented.

What multidirectional communication involves:
  • Involving communities in planning and communicating about COVID-19 control measures.
      Where this occurred, uptake of measures was more effective, and minimised need for costly
      and inefficient law enforcement. Listening to communities can be achieved by structures such
      as standing community panels or a public Taskforce. Structures should be established prior to
      an emergency so they can be mobilised in times of rapid decision making.
  • Supporting community leaders to play critical communication roles within their communities.
      This includes providing access to expert information. Where leaders were supported during
      the vaccine rollout, communities were successfully promoted and supported vaccination.7
  • Working with journalists. Our interviews with leading health reporters found they were
      important allies in conveying information and played key quality improvement role in their
      own organisations, yet had compromised access to information. Governments should provide
      specialist health reporters with priority access to data.
  • Provide forums for sharing information and asking questions. We commend the regular
      updates from government chaired by NHMRC aimed at informing expert commentators.

Recommendation # 2: Expand capacity in risk communication
Rationale: Although the principles of risk communication have been established for decades, they
are rarely put into practice by companies, Governments or organisations. Often staff in these
organisations comment on the lack of enactment of these principles at all levels. For example,
'communicate early and often' and 'increase perceptions of control by recommending actions the
public can take' are two cardinal principles of best practice risk communication. Yet in January and
February 2020 Governments prepared for the pandemic behind closed doors, leaving Australians
exposed to, and frightened by, media reports of pandemic crisis overseas. Anti-Asian racism,
widespread supermarket stockouts and unnecessary and harmful school closures8 could all have
been minimised or averted.

What increasing capacity in risk communication involves:
  •         Expanding opportunities for education and training in risk communication at multiple levels;
  •         Ensuring training in risk communication is prioritised for leaders and managers;
  • Ensuring training that distinguishes risk communication from regular communications;
       activities such as campaigns, public health messaging and media management.

Recommendation #3: Embed communication science expertise in pandemic decision making.
Rationale: Communication is not separate from decision making. Actions speak louder than words.
Even high-quality community engagement can reduce trust where there are no means for community
perspectives to be taken into account in pandemic management decisions. Positively, more accurate
forecasts of public behaviour, made possible by community engagement and research insights, can
and should affect pandemic modelling and decision making. Best practice pandemic management
means including risk communication and social science expertise in the central decision-making
structure (e.g., AHPPC). Examples include the Netherlands where social science support provided
advice and recommendations to government and linked via a chair to a group of behavioural experts,
sociologists, health psychologists and health promotion experts.9 Where risk expertise was missing
and 'business as usual' public health messaging was utilised, mistakes were made. This was the case
with early vaccination campaigns. For example, 'Arm Yourself' was an inappropriate message for
young Muslim men after years of peace-related communication. Risk communication expertise is also
needed given the uncertainties of pandemic management and the importance of balancing health,
resourcing and economic considerations, which the public interpreted as confusing and inconsistent
messaging.

What embedding risk communication expertise in decision making involves:
  • Ensuring that an external-to-government, research-based risk communication expert is a
      member of any key pandemic decision making Committee;
  • Providing resources for risk communication expertise to interface with social and behavioural
      science and ethics expertise, to inform pandemic management;
  • Providing priority resourcing for rapid risk communication research, particularly in
      community-based forms, to be sustained throughout a pandemic to inform decision making,
      given the high rate of success of outcomes of pandemic social and behavioural research10;
  • Providing a structure for risk communication expertise to interface with Government
      marketing, communications and campaign teams

References. 1. Independent Pandemic Management Advisory Committee. 2022. Review of COVID-19
Communications in Victoria Government of Victoria. 2. WHO. 2023. 3. Hyland-Wood, B. et al. (2021).
Toward effective government communication strategies in the era of COVID-19. Huma and SS
Communications, 8(1), Article 1. 4. Seale H, et al. 2023. Communication and engagement of
community members from ethnic minorities during COVID-19: BMJ Open 2023;13:e069552. 5. Leaks,
J. 2021. Experts raise concerns about vaccine messaging. The Saturday Paper. 6. Hooker, C., & Leask,
J. (2020). Risk Communication Should be Explicit About Values. Journal of Bioethical Inquiry, 17(4),
581-589. 7. Kaufman, J. et al. Vaccine Champions Training Program: Empowering Community Leaders
to Advocate for COVID-19 Vaccines. Vaccines 2022,10(11), 1893. 8. Leask, J., & Hooker, C. (2020). How
risk communication could have reduced controversy about school closures in Australia during the
COVID-19 pandemic. Public Health Research & Practice, 30 (2), 3022007. 9. See eg https://www.bessi-
collab.net/videos. 10. Ruggeri et al 2023. A synthesis of evidence for policy from behavioural science
during COVID-19. Nature, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06840-9.
