Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission and share my views and experiences
about the Government’s COVID-19 response.

My name is Kerri Thomson. I am a clinical nurse for WA health, and have worked in the
health system for over 30 years. I recognise the importance of an effective and resilient PPE
supply chain specifically within the Australian manufacturing industry. I would like to see the
Australian Government pioneering the development of next generation PPE that gives
frontline workers like myself the confidence to come to work during pandemics worse than
covid. I would also like to see the development of new standards and regulations
surrounding indoor air quality, and preventing close proximity transmission and spread of
airborne pathogens that jeopardise vulnerable communities.

My key message is the overriding importance of efforts to prevent future pandemics.
Perhaps more than any other kind of catastrophic risk, it’s within our power to prevent novel
pathogens from emerging and to quickly identify, contain and eliminate them if they do.
Given the enormity of human and economic costs of pandemics - and that pandemics much
worse than COVID-19 are possible - prevention should be our primary goal.

I think preventing pathogens from emerging and controlling them if they do should be top
priorities for the new Australian Centre for Disease Control. Bernstein et al make the
economic case for this in their paper “The costs and benefits of primary prevention of
zoonotic pandemics”. They show that, even on pessimistic assumptions and without
considering the potential impact of promising emerging technologies, significant investment
in pandemic prevention is overwhelmingly justified.

My comments go primarily to ‘preventive health measures’ in terms of reference 3.

The costs and benefits of primary prevention of zoonotic pandemics - PMC (nih.gov)


Indoor Air Quality Standards

I believe that the Australian government should create clear codes of practice and standards
for Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and introduce regulations for high-risk spaces. Every year,
Australians fall ill as a result of exposure to airborne pathogens in indoor environments.
Some of the most vulnerable members of our community, the elderly and
immunocompromised, are particularly exposed to this risk. Better controls on IAQ would not
only help protect us against current and future pandemics, but they can also reduce the
negative health outcomes caused by other hazards like indoor smog, toxic materials, non­
pandemic respiratory diseases, and other known airborne health hazards.

Despite Australians spending at least 90% >f their time ind ors, the Australian Department
of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water highlights that Australia has no
specific controls on IAQ aside from the limited control specified by Work Safe Australia.
Without nationalised standards and codes specifying minimum performance requirements
for infection control, I worry that the nation will default to ineffective interventions that provide
little protection against pathogens.

Clear and effective codes of practice and standards for IAQ Australia would provide clear
metrics and targets for air quality with the goal to reduce pathogen transmission. Without
clear metrics and targets, I worry that manufacturers and innovators will create products that
are ineffective at cleaning indoor air to suitable levels to reduce pathogen transmission.
Evidence-based standards for IAQ which are informed by the latest scientific research into
respiratory disease, air filtration and sanitation, public health, and behavioural science would
provide the correct regulatory environment to ensure effective IAQ interventions are
available to the Australian public. Additionally, clear requirements should be specified for
high-risk environments in which airborne infections are potentially life threatening such as in
aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities, and other facilities caring for the
immunocompromised.

The Lancet COVID-19 Commission Task Force has prop sed Non-infectious Air Delivery
Rates (NADR) so we now have measurable goals for ventilation and filtration targets that
protect against infectious disease transmission. The Task Force highlights that, while there
is ongoing scientific debate over what metrics and targets are optimal, there is agreement
that current practices are insufficient. I recommend that the Inquiry read the report to gain a
better understanding of the considerations in setting effective codes and standards for IAQ

IAQ codes and standards could be defined by the Australian Building Codes Board (ABCB)
in the National Construction Code. The ABCB could draw on the expertise of the Australian
Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care and the Australasian Health Infrastructure
Alliance (AHIA), as well as the existing IAQ work done by the ABCB. AS HR. E Standat
241, Control of Infectious Aerosols may also be helpful in informing codes and standards.

I believe that clearer codes of practice and standards for IAQ can help safeguard all
Australians against airborne pathogens in indoor environments. With the right regulatory
environment we can reduce the spread of pathogens, reduce the burden on our public
health system, and safeguard the most vulnerable members of our community.


Supply chains and next generation PPE
The terms of reference refer to support for industry and business, including in responding to
supply chain, transport and labour shortage issues. No doubt, when hearing evidence on this
topic, the Inquiry will receive submissions from the industry which boil down to seeking
additional government support.

While I think it is right that the Inquiry turns its mind to supporting industry and business - I
would encourage the inquiry to do that through the lens of the public interest. Specifically, in
a future pandemic worse than COVID-19, what is it that the public needs from industry and
how can the Inquiry’s recommendations ensure we are in a position to receive it?

We know that, during critical stages of the pandemic, Australia had difficulty acquiring
adequate vaccines, PPE and rapid antigen tests. A lack of reagents also inhibited testing in
the early stages of the pandemic.

In a future worse pandemic, it might be that supply chain breakdowns and labour force
shortages lead to far worse consequences. Although COVID was challenging, there was
never a suggestion that the power might go out or that food would not be available. But
COVID did show us just how brittle modern “just in time” supply chains can be. If what
happened to toilet paper instead happened to food, medication or liquid fuel, the
consequences could be catastrophic. Similarly, if the workforce shortages that hit the meat
industry instead hit the power grid operators, the consequences could be societal collapse.
Overall, there’s a sense in which modern society is far more brittle than historical societies
that endured pandemics. In a modern society, our lives depend on interactions with people
hundreds or thousands of kilometres away who we have never met. This has never been the
case historically.

This observation leads to two conclusions:
First, the importance of pandemic prevention is paramount. If a pandemic could plausibly
cause complete social collapse, it’s essential that we identify all the vectors by which
pandemics could begin and work hard domestically and globally to address them.

Second, in the event that such a pandemic does occur, we can’t be in the position of having
to solve problems like defining essential workers or mapping supply chains on the fly through
ad hoc approaches like the National Coordination Mechanism. Instead, we need to have a
robust national plan for a pandemic worse than COVID that is regularly exercised with
industry and civil society organisations as well as international partners. Exactly where the
pressure points are will change rapidly, and the lessons we learned from COVID are unlikely
to remain true in 10 or 30 years from now. Only robust planning and regular exercising will
ensure we maintain and build the knowledge necessary for the future.

Conclusion

The notable public health challenges of history have been solved by innovative people
bringing new ideas and perspectives to the challenge of health. As the scope of public health
has grown, so has its ability to improve longevity and quality of life.

The terms of reference of this inquiry are fundamentally about doing better in the future.
Given how terrible future pandemics could be - the best thing the Inquiry could do for the
future is to prioritise pandemic prevention, including the novel ways pandemics could occur
in the future. While that will require uncomfortable thinking about unexpected topics and
emerging technologies, these are the issues that could have the biggest impact towards
securing a healthier future.
