As a concerned citizen having myself and my family members injected multiple times with the
COVID “vaccine” with government & health officials, and medical practitioners leading us to
believe they were safe and effective, and since seeing a lot of evidence to the contrary, I would
like to see the inquiry address these issues.

As for mask mandates and lockdowns, there is evidence available that indicates these are not
effective means of dealing with a viral outbreak. Those “in charge” had access to the evidence that
these are not effective, yet the mask mandates and lockdowns went ahead. Please use the inquiry
to understand why this occurred.

Why was the vaccine procurement and vaccine contract details not made publicly available?
Please look into this as these were taxpayer funded. In the interests of transparency, and if these
were done professionally and fully in the interests of our citizen’s best health outcomes, why was
this not made publicly available?

During the COVIC “vaccine” rollout, there were many health professionals concerned about an
abnormally high number of injuries linked to the jabs. Why wasn’t there action taken check if there
was an unacceptable risk to the jabs?

During the COVID era there were multiple instances of highly qualified health professionals voicing
concern about vaccine mandates, vaccine injuries, mask mandates and lockdowns, and some
advocating alternative treatments for COVID, that were censored on social media. Many of these
health professionals have been since proven correct with there concerns. Please use the inquiry to
find out why this occurred so this can be avoided in the future.

Please use the inquiry to find out why there was Government misinformation in the media
regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection and transmission along with denial of vaccine
injuries and gaslighting of the injured.

For some backup to my above comments, please see the following 10 foundational principles
which is the consensus of the Global COVID Summit (GCS) after two years of scientific research
and millions of patients treated. The GCS consists of over 17,000 physicians and medical
scientists, their website can be found here: https://globalcovidsummit.org/

   1. We declare and the data confirm that the COVID-19 experimental genetic therapy
      injections must end.
   2. We declare doctors should not be blocked from providing life-saving medical
      treatment.
   3. We declare the state of national emergency, which facilitates corruption and
      extends the pandemic, should be immediately terminated.
   4. We declare medical privacy should never again be violated, and all travel and
      social restrictions must cease.
   5. We declare masks are not and have never been effective protection against an
      airborne respiratory virus in the community setting.
   6. We declare funding and research must be established for vaccination damage,
      death and suffering.
   7. We declare no opportunity should be denied, including education, career, military
      service or medical treatment, over unwillingness to take an injection.
   8. We declare that first amendment violations and medical censorship by
      government, technology and media companies should cease, and the Bill of
      Rights be upheld.
9. We declare that Pfizer, Moderns, BioNTech, Janssen, Astra Zeneca, and their
    enablers, withheld and willfully omitted safety and effectiveness information from
    patients and physicians, and should be immediately indicted for fraud.
10.      We declare government and medical agencies must be held accountable.
