Having worked as a physiotherapist for the past 20years, my professional practice was guided by the
health principles I was taught while training. Principles withstand scrutiny, survive the test of time
and can be applied in novel situations when no precedent exists.
    1)       First, do no harm.
    2)       Follow a therapeutic order to treat/manage disease.
    3)       Interventions must be proportionate to the severity of disease being treated.
    4)      Empowered individuals are the authority in their own health.
    5)       Informed consent is only valid in the absence of coercion.

These principles were breached by health directives that:
    1) Disrupted the immunological protection provided by a diverse microbiome (masks and social
       distancing);
    2) Went against early epidemiological data that clearly linked individual physical fitness with
       reduced transmission and disease severity (lockdowns);
   3) Coerced health professionals while ignoring and dismissing genuine concerns about
       pharmaceutical efficacy (employment mandates);
   4) Prevented shared patient-professional decision making and gagged health professionals
       from exploring any alternatives to an mRNA-based pharmaceutical that had no long term
       safety data (AHPRA position statement on COVID-19 vaccines);
   5) Continue to ripple through society in the form of distrust, misinformation and, at times
       hatred of the health system and any professional associated with it.
   6) Humiliated anyone who questioned the seemingly pre-crafted narrative that has since
       proven to be incorrect, in that the tax payer-funded mRNA pharmaceuticals likely did more
       harm than good and the public health directives created a disease burden that will far
       outweigh anything that could result from a virus with a low case fatality ratio such as COVID-
        19.

Fear and division were politically useful and were readily adopted by power-hungry health
bureaucrats. In my role                                  the time, I helped to staff vaccination hubs
and flagged early trends regarding a worrying side effect profile. I was advised in an Executive -level
meeting within                       that what I reported was incorrect, I was likely spreading
misinformation and if I said anything else that "could be perceived as negative about these vaccines"
I could be reported and deregistered as a physiotherapist.

There should always be choice where there is risk. Health professionals have codes of practice
published by AHPRA to ensure we work autonomously, think critically and act in the best interests of
our patients by fostering a healthy therapeutic partnership. This sentiment appears to now simply
be hollow words. The pandemic saw the rapid spread of control and coercion by those wishing to
police others and take power by force if required.

The only way to reestablish credibility for the health system and health professionals is to have a
royal commission into the 'health' response to the COVID pandemic. Many Australians now
associate all health professionals with occult and nefarious forces and I would like to be disentangled
from that association.
