This is my pandemic experience.

In my family, I work in tech, my wife works as a nurse one of the state government owned hospitals
in Queensland. We have primary school aged kids.

Back when this publicly appeared in early 2020, everyone was fed a sudden flood of fear inducing
news/propaganda from all news stations. As news stations are known to do, they played this on loop,
ostensibly for ratings and ad revenue. However, the (intended?) effect is that everyone was scared
out of their wits.

It is human nature to feel fear when staring into the abyss of the unknown, for that is what society
was collectively doing at that point.

So, many people (certainly not all) felt, or were manipulated into thinking, that it was an acceptable
sacrifice 'for the greater good' to lock down society. The thing is, globally, this happened at the same
time in 'lockstep'; almost every national (and most state) governments decided to shut their
respective economies down.

My wife loves her job as a nurse and dutifully took her part in the pandemic response working during
the shutdown. Personally, that school term was the most difficult in my life. I worked from home full
time, and at the same time running school for our kids. The stress, was enormous.

At some point I began to wonder why no one was treating covid; everyone was just waiting for the
promised vaccine. I also firstly marvelled at, then became increasingly concerned, then mortified by
how fast the 'independent' national governments around the world worked together to 'keep people
safe' in lock down. Government is the slowest moving leviathan in society, and yet, here we had all
governments acting in unison at lightning speed, with the result being humanity being punished for
needing to live.

Every intervention implemented by governments broke society in some way, each adding more and
more fear: Locked down in homes; couldn't see your family or friends. Wearing masks; everyone
turned into faceless minions, every person we might see only had eyes filled with fear. Scan a QR
code and identify yourself everywhere you go; the digital equivalent of "papers please!". Social
distancing; no conversation with random people. Venues restricting numbers; no parties,
celebrations, communal religious worship; People needed people, and governments removed the
ability for people to have people.

It was enough to cause what Dr^^^^^^^^|calls 'Mass Formation' - This is a neat YouTube video
describing it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=09maaUaRT4M

And all of that is without even getting to the 'safe' vaccine.

So, I started reading.

And do you know what I found? 'World War Information' online!

Anyone with a dissenting view on: COVID, its origins, the vaccine, any vaccine, masks, the efficacy of
any intervention, politicians, terrain theory, the prime minister, free speech, the US president, BLM,
germ theory, The Science™, real science, lockdowns, freedom of movement, and more, was being
censored on the internet. You could have been a cleaner at an office, a CEO, or a medical doctor with
specialist training, it didn't matter. Big Tech and their algorithms were all over that, with the help of
vigilant government snitches, reporting tweets, posts, and sites. For daring to speak out, you would
be deplatformed. Even the 'scientific' peer review process, by which scientific papers are purportedly
published and debated, was taking part by withholding publishing approval, or unpublishing findings
contrary to the 'party line' required for the government to bring the vaccine to market.

But do you know what I also found?

Small pockets of real resistance - engaging debate, and real science. There were some individual
shining lights of people around the world becoming beacons of hope for us normal folk. I discovered
that COVID could be treated and even prevented. I found that real science was being performed,
even if those in power did not want it or its results known. It reminded me of the French
underground fighting the Nazi's in World War II.

These guys were treating people successfully and were punished for it: http://flccc.net/

All the talk and governmental 'debate' about malinformation, misinformation, and disinformation
was/is about the government stifling freedom of speech. Australia's misinformation laws currently
under debate are a travesty of epic proportions and exist only because politicians do not like people
being free to say what is on their minds.

When I learned that COVID wasn't really a problem for our immune systems to fight off (except in
rare circumstances), I then began to wonder why we were being treated like criminals under house
arrest. By that time there was talk of mandating medical procedures, so I was appalled by the
suggestion that we would potentially be forced to take something that no reasonable person,
without the added stressors of propaganda and potential societal martyrdom, could expect to agree
with.

So, we get to the 'vaccine'. It's been described as a miracle. It might be, but there is no way we can
know - either yet or at all. Rushed testing. Dodgy studies. Erasing the placebo line to make sure that
no one could check results to see if it was dangerous. So many unconscionable practices undertaken
to rush products to market, to make a bucketload of money off taxpayers. And now there is a
continuing trend of raised mortality rates post vaccine role out in Australia... it wasn't there before.

And what about secrecy? Here in Australia, the covid cabinet hid behind a veil of secrecy! How on
earth were decisions made? Nobody knows. It's difficult enough to trust elected leaders in 'good'
times, how on earth could we trust them during this time? Why on earth can we not go and read
transcripts of meetings, and see votes on motions? It smacks more of dictatorship than democracy.

What is my point in all this? I expected more. Not more 'action', because there was too much of
misguided action and not enough thought. No, I expected more from all our leaders - to set the
example of leadership and take a stand for good over evil, for bravery and strength over fear. To not
hide behind 'experts' that were just following all the other experts. To not give in to the latest idea
from multi-billion-dollar corporations and waste taxpayer money on secret contracts. To not give in
to the hubris of man. I expected my elected leaders to give more of a damn about their voters and
constituents than their own wallets and power.

Maybe, in this day and age, I expect too much. I sincerely pray I don't, and that this rushed Inquiry
can be converted into a full royal commission that includes state government actions in scope. I pray
it can shine a light on governmental corruption, and lobbying practices and voting incentives. I pray
that governmental censorship practices will be revealed.

Yes, Earlier I said the Nazi's. WWII started because a single leader decided to start 'protecting' their
society by 'sanitising' it of the 'unwanted'. It started with the sick. Camps were built to house them,
then kill them. Well, we started building camps too... I know of a few about the place. Huge pieces of
infrastructure 'just sitting there'. I pray that this inquiry will try to make actual sense of the madness
and try to prevent it happening again. Back in the forties and fifties they had the Nuremberg trials to
try to do the same thing. They even came up with the 'Nuremberg code', which during covid also
went out the door... I pray this inquiry might ignite a fire under someone to truly do the right thing
and not just pay lip service to the ideal.

The Governments of Australia spent four years oppressing their voters and constituents and it was
not right. Not a little bit.

https://vitamindforall.org/letter.html
