Dear [Recipient's Name],

I am writing to submit a series of critical questions and
concerns regarding the COVID-19 response in Australia
to the [Appropriate Body's Name] inquiry.

By way of background, I spent many years on the board
of an American NFP, Sanevax were I became familiar
with vaccine research, safety and efficacy, pharma
marketing approaches and the conflicts apparent in so
many regulatory agencies including our own TGA.

As an informed citizen, it is crucial to address various
aspects of decision-making and policies related to
lockdowns, mask mandates, vaccine distribution,
transparency, dissent suppression, and international
influences.

This submission seeks clarity, accountability, and the
possibility of a Royal Commission to ensure a
comprehensive understanding of the decisions made
and their implications.

Section 1: Lockdowns and Mask Mandates:
1.1 Who were the decision-makers and what ]evidence
was used to enforce lockdowns and mask mandates?
1.2 . There are real concerns about mask effectiveness
and inconsistencies in use, quality and efficacy. There
are myriads of peer reviewed studies that evidence
this, why were they ignored?
1.3 . There are also myriads of peer reviewed studies on
adverse health consequences of masks. Why have
these been ignored?
1.4 Who made these decisions and are they to be held
accountable for the consequences of same?

Section 2: Vaccine Approval and Distribution:
2.1 Exactly who were the decision-makers behind
vaccine purchase, distribution, and promotion. What if
any ties do they have to Pharma, WHO, WEF or other
conflicts, disclosed or undisclosed?
2.2. History now clearly proves there was a total lack of
safety data, limited testing, and demographic strata
testing, age, gender, ethnicity, medical conditions.
Given this, how could such far reaching decisions be
made, by whom and on what basis and oversight?
 2.3. Have/will all potential conflicts of interest among
decision-makers be investigated and acted upon?

Section 3: Pfizer Agreement and Transparency:
3.1. The leaked Pfizer agreement with South Africa
demonstrates a number of highly concerning matters.
3.2 The agreement includes a comprehensive
disclosure of possible adverse reactions, how was this
considered, why ignored and not provided to those
receiving the vaccine? As a consequence, what legal
and other rights of those that received the vaccine
been breached and how will they be compensated for
any health issues that arise from such breach?
3.3. Why is there a continuing lack of information
regarding safety, efficacy, and long-term health issues
give the many hundreds of peer reviewed studies that
evidence this?
3.3. Exactly who were the decision-makers (individuals
and agencies who agreed to the above and what
consequences do they have as a result?

Section 4: Silencing Dissent and Criticism:
4.1 Who made the Policies and what were the agencies
responsible for suppressing dissent?
4.2. Exactly what financial incentives were provided to
media and other organisations to enforce mandates
and stifle dissenting views?
4.3. There is considerable evidence that the
Government and its agencies allowed alignment with
the proposals or instructions from other non-
government/unelected entities, who made the
decision to do so, on what basis and what conflicts and
consequence of such conflicts will be investigated?

Section 5: Booster Shots and Alternative Treatments:
5.1 Why did Government advocate for boosters despite
evidence of lower severity of Covid 19 and an
acknowledged lack of vaccine efficacy.
5.2 . Who drove the suppression of dissenting voices
and why was there a lack of support for other cost­
effective treatments?

Section 6: TGA Structure and Independence:
6.1. Given the above will there now be an ind.,
evaluation of the TGA's structure and funding model?
6.2. How does Government propose to ensure that in
the future advisors to TGA have no conflicts of interest?
6.3. How does Government propose to ensure that in
the future TGA makes informed decisions Independent
from international agencies' influence?

Section 7: Influence of Un-elected Entities,
Accountability and Consequences:
7.1. Will the Government commit to a detailed and
ind., examination of WEF, WHO, and GAVI/Gates
influence in the matters discussed above?
7.2. What will Government do to identify, remove, and
prosecute individuals and agencies who are found to
have undertaken recommendations / actions without
proper and detailed examination, were they have lied
and misled or simply failed in their duty of care?

Section 8: Call for a Royal Commission:
8.1. Given the above will the Government commit to
undertaking a Royal Commission to ensure a
comprehensive investigation of the entire Covid 19
response so that a thorough examination will ensure
the mistakes are never repeated?

Conclusion:
In conclusion, this submission seeks clarity and
accountability for the decisions made during the
COVID-19 response in Australia. I believe that a
thorough investigation, potentially through a Royal
Commission, is necessary to address the concerns
raised. I appreciate your attention to these matters and
look forward to a transparent and comprehensive
inquiry.




Sincerely,



Stephen Paul Tunley
