COVID RESPONSE INQUIRY

From the outset the Covid-19 response was fear mongering.

It was clear there was an agenda from mainstream media & government organisations to instil fear
into the public.

The hardline response of lockdowns, mask mandates & mandatory vaccinations from governments
will have a long-lasting affect on the public for decades to come and a complete loss of faith in
governments & governing systems.

As myself & my family members chose to not align ourselves with the government worldwide
narrative as none of it made sense, nor evidence stacked up, we were ostracized by our decisions.

Family members were forced to leave there working positions, we were unable to attend certain
places of business, entertainment venues, hospitals & even forbidden to purchase alcohol for a
certain period, explain that one please! Must be in the science, I guess.

We believe in natural health & not relying on the public health system. Exercise, healthy nutrition &
vitamin intake, natural fresh air & sunlight and proven ways to maintain your better health. None of
this was ever proposed by governments, nor any open discussion had, only a hardline direction
chosen by a few elite who stood to benefit the most from the narrative.

We have all had Covid, still all unvaccinated & it has been nothing more than a mild flu. We were
deemed to walking on death row due to our decision to remain unvaccinated. It is one of the best
choices made for me & family.

We know of no one dying from Covid, but many who have suffered from Vaccine injuries, which have
been rigorously denied by the corrupt health system. Many vaccinated people we know continue to
get Covid, and some say their health has never been in such a bad state. There is clear evidence &
admissions that the so-called saviour vaccines were never tested to stop transmission & the test
results were manipulated to indicated a vaccine type which had never ever been used before were
95% successful. Its amazing how pharmaceutical companies who had never made vaccines before
were suddenly claiming vaccine success after 4 weeks. Wake up!

Peoples lives have been ruined, cost of living is out of control, Tax dollars completely wasted &
soaring inflation, which the government has never been held accountable for or apologized for. We
will never vote or trust our major government system again. You have failed us.
