Covid Inquiry - Submission by Patrick Tobin

I welcome the opportunity to provide a submission to this Inquiry in my capacity as a private
individual.

Personal Relevant Experience

I was the Executive General Manager, Policy and Advocacy at the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians (RACP) from January 2017 until February 2021. In this capacity I had frequent contact on a
wide range of health related issues, including the response to Covid-19, with the Office of the Health
Minister, Hon Greg Hunt; as well as officials within various parts of the Department of Health.

I was previously the Director of Health Policy at Catholic Health Australia from 2003-2016 and in that
capacity was a member of, and Chair for several years (201-2016), of the Health Sector Group of the
Commonwealth Attorney General's Department Trusted Information Sharing Network (TISN), which
brought together Federal Health Department and key private sector health providers, including
hospitals, pathology laboratories, pharmaceutical suppliers and medical device companies to ensure
the continued operation of critical infrastructure during periods ofcrisis.

I currently work part-time as a Policy Advisor with the Australian Medical Association.

My comments below are based on my experiences above but are made in my own personal capacity
and do not necessarily reflect the views of any the above organisations.

General comment

Firstly I would like to pay tribute to the incredible hard work, under enormous pressure and during a
period of rapidly changing scientific advice, of all the clinicians and other frontline workers who put
the health of themselves and their families on the line to serve and save others.

I would also like to acknowledge the incredible efforts of all those working across Government, from
the Minister, his staff and Departmental staff to develop and rollout a response to this pandemic.
Notwithstanding the tragic loss of life and continuing morbidity of those suffering ongoing long
Covid, it is clear that the effectiveness of the response saved many tens of thousands of lives that
would otherwise have been lost.

Particular successes I had close knowledge of included the extremely rapid rollout of MBS telehealth
items, working with Indigenous health organisations in the early stages of the pandemic to minimise
Covid-19 exposure and deaths in Indigenous communities, the decision to close the international
border as well as the regular, structured update meetings with the Department of Health for medical
practitioners, allied health providers and their peak bodies, which enabled rapid two-way flow of
information from the government to health providers as well as information on the impact of the
response measures back to government.

Nevertheless, in order to save lives in future pandemics, it is important that lessons are learnt and
measures put in place to anticipate and respond to the next pandemic.

Clearly defined Responsibilities - Private and Public Sectors - Need for regular rehearsals

It is clear that one of the areas of particular frustration was the blurred understanding of roles,
responsibilities and expectations across different parts of the health sector. Confusion of
understanding particular roles and responsibilities clearly led to delayed decision-making in areas
such as vaccine rollout in aged and disability care and more broadly. This Inquiry will undoubtedly
hear many, well-informed submissions about the impact of having different public health measures
and restrictions implemented by different jurisdictions and what role the Commonwealth should
and can play in their support or co-ordination.
From my personal perspective, as a Chair of the TISN Health Sector Group, I was fortunate to witness
the very positive lessons learned from bringing in key players from across all critical industries as
well as the different tiers and jurisdictions of government to role play potentially catastrophic
scenarios. Such role plays rapidly brought into sharp focus the linkages and dependencies of all
industries and tiers of government on each other in the face of a significant challenge to one sector
and how rapidly the effective operation of society could be brought to a standstill.

Exercise Cumston in 2006 rehearsed the impact of a global outbreak of an influenza pandemic in
Australia. Many valuable lessons were learned which were put to use during the Covid response
(unfortunately many recommendations will still likely be applicable today). It is also clear that
Operation Cumston vastly underestimated the scale of societal disruption that was ultimately going
to be caused by a pandemic such as Covid turned out to be - future exercises need to be more
robust in developing scenarios to be tested. In my view, given rapidly changing technologies, travel
patterns, media and social media use, pandemic training exercises of at least the scale of Operation
Cusmston should be conducted every 5 years with the results used to update Commonwealth and
Jurisdiction pandemic plans.

    •   Conduct large scale pandemic rehearsals involving all jurisdictions and key industry sectors
        every five years
    •   Future pandemic rehearsals need to be robust and challenging - noting the deep impact of
        the Covid pandemic on societal functioning

Access to the National Medical Stockpile (NMS) - which health services were eligible?

One area of particular frustration was access to the National Medical Stockpile - in particular for
medical specialists working in the community.

Access to personal protective equipment (PRE) was an issue early in the pandemic resulting from
global supply chain shortages. PRE was made available from the NMS to health workers in public
hospitals - although there was variability across both jurisdictions and particular hospitals and
hospital departments as to access and the particular PRE made available (ie surgical v's P2/N95
masks). Nevertheless this was a clear responsibility of hospitals.

Similarly the Commonwealth took responsibility for ensuring and enabling GPs to access PRE from
the NMS.

For medical specialists, including respiratory physicians, working in non-hospital settings, it was not
clear whether they could or could not access PRE from the NMS. Inquiries to the Commonwealth at
the height of the initial wave of the pandemic took over 3 months to resolve - with the ultimate
answer being that they could not access PRE from the NMS.

Given respiratory physicians and other specialists were seeing complex cases of respiratory disease
in non-hospital settings, it seemed strange that they were not able to access PRE from the NMS
when GPs could. This situation was made worse by the delay in receiving definitive advice from the
Commonwealth at a time when there were global shortages of PPE - leading specialists to try to sort
PPE from their own devices and in the meantime risking their own and their patients' health. Early
timely advice to medical specialists working in the community would have helped them source their
own PPE or at least have provided the clarity to make decisions about how they would be able to
provide their services going forward.

    •   Policies such as who has access to the NMS and in what circumstances should be clear for
        all health service providers at the outset of a pandemic

Inconsistent publicly available technical clinical advice
Another area of frustration at times was the inconsistent provision of technical clinical advice. A
particular example related to the use of masks in different clinical circumstances. Prior to the
declaration by the WHO that significant spread of Covid 19 was could occur by aerosols, there was
significant debate about whether surgical or P2/N95 masks were appropriate in different clinical
settings and patient circumstances. The publicly available technical advice provided on the Health
Department website, including the advice from committees such as ATAGI and CDNA as well as
different jurisdictions was at times inconsistent on this point. Often this resulted from delays in the
committee meeting cycle - with those committees with more recent meetings benefitting from the
most recent new and emerging evidence and updating their advice accordingly.

Whilst it was clear that scientific understanding of the mechanisms of transmission of Covid-19 was
rapidly evolving, again it was concerning that the inconsistency of advice could lead to health
workers being unnecessarily exposed to risk - especially if health services adopted the least
stringent of the ranges of advice on offer for reasons such as budget or access to stocks.

Whilst acknowledging the challenges of ensuring consistency of technical advice during a period of
rapid change in scientific understanding, more future effort needs to be put into ensuring consistent
and up to date advice is provided in all government public communications (including across
jurisdictions).

    •   More future effort needs to be put into ensuring consistent and up to date advice is
        provided in all government public communications (including across jurisdictions) - with
        responsibly preferably being given to a medical adviser for ensuring technical consistency
        across platforms.

Provision of adequate notice to clinicians of changes to Covid-19 policy settings

A further frustration for clinicians as the pandemic continued were announcements of changes to,
for example, vaccine eligibility being publicly announced (sometimes even by the Prime Minister)
prior to advice being provided to clinicians. Clinicians were then confronted by patients who were
more up to date in the latest policy settings than the clinicians.

Recognising the challenges of the political system and the need to confidentiality leading to
announcements, nevertheless every effort should be made to providing clinicians with advanced
notice (even if only 24 hours) of pandemic policy changes so they are in a position to provide
accurate advice and up to date treatment options to their patients.

    •   Clinicians to be provided of advance notice of pandemic related policy changes relevant to
        clinical practice

Pathology POC testing - jurisdictional inconsistency

Whilst the management of the Covid response in Indigenous communities by governments working
in partnership with Indigenous health organisations was generally very successful in the early stages
of the pandemic, a particular example of frustration with inconsistencies across jurisdictions
emerged with the ability to deploy point of care pathology testing for Covid-19 in remote Indigenous
communities. This was important as point of care testing (albeit not as accurate as laboratory
testing) would allow a rapid real-time local response to an outbreak in a local community compared
to the delay of several days potentially incurred where a test had to be transported to a facility
thousands of kilometres away - with a likely rapid local spread of Covid-19 in the meantime. For a
period of time POC testing was allowable in remote communities in the NT but not Queensland
(despite the Commonwealth's best endeavours). Whilst out of scope for this Inquiry, future
responses should seek to minimise such inter-jurisdictional variations.
