Western Australia
December 15 2023

I am aexperience prior to the pandemic. I was mandated out of
my job for declining the ‘vaccine’.

I submit some of my concerns for consideration:

Why did the Australian government change its pandemic management plan that was in place prior
to the COVID-19 pandemic? The response has been devastating to thousands of Australians’ health
and financial security. Where was the scientific and ethical rigour for making decisions about the
severity of the risk and the benefit of a novel treatment?

The Federal Government failed to protect people’s right to work and engage in chosen social and
family activities such as funerals and weddings.

What is the reason the Australian Government purchased such a huge number of vaccine doses?
There were sufficient doses for every every person to receive more than eight injections, but the
doses had a limited life time, and millions expired before they could be used.

The TGA has admitted to not knowing the number of people who are vaccine-injured, including
deaths. This is the responsibility of the TGA, yet they appear to be hiding the numbers, including
the deaths of children.

Why were existing drugs which had been shown to be effective in other countries and could have
been repurposed in Australia banned by the Federal Government? Ivermectin and
hydroxychloroquine could potentially have saved the lives of people affected by CO VID-19.

The cost of the response the pandemic, which will be home by the Australian people for decades to
come, has not been properly disclosed by the Federal Government. Where is the transparency?

Where are the details of how government arrived at decisions regarding the pandemic response?

Why was there no Federal Government health advice for people to receive adequate amounts of
Vitamin D, exercise, and to keep weight at a healthy level? These simple actions have scientific
backing to be the most significant factors in staying well and recovering from an illness such as
COVID-19.

Has there been financial benefit to the Federal Government or its individual members or employees
from pharmaceutical companies?


Finally, the terms of reference for this inquiry are too narrow to uncover the full story of the
pandemic response.
