Re: Covid-19 Response Inquiry

To the Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

I am writing to make you aware that many Australians see Labor's Covid Response Inquiry as
a Federal Government cover-up. There is no validity to this inquiry. All members of the
inquiry should resign, and a full Royal Commission should be enacted into the entire period
of the pandemic up to and including the current time. Immense damage was done to public
health, people's economic lives and wellbeing, the nature of our democracy and the
constraint on our human rights. The Australian Government and its bureaucracy need to be
held accountable to this criminal malfeasance.

A full Royal Commission needs to be installed to investigate the gross distortion of the
medical practices that occurred during the Covid period and which continues to this day.
Examination into the vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts are needed. Why
were they a secret? Why were universally accepted medical ethics and practices ie. DO NO
HARM, been usurped and perverted to advance the interests of non-elected officials in the
WHO and various Australian bodies through their links to 'Big Pharma'? Corruption into
practices such as lockdowns, masking, social distancing and vaccination, including mandates
which have little medical evidence and were pushed onto the populace need to be
thoroughly looked into.

Bureaucracies such as the likes of AHPRA, TGA, ATAGI ad others, who are heavily funded by
'Big Pharma' and who continue to push lies and propaganda to the public need to be
investigated. So much data and evidence coming from all over the world about these toxic
vaccines are coming. Whistle blowers are coming out of the woodworks. It's time for
Government accountability of maleficence!

What will Labor's Inquiry do? NOTHING! The enquirers will just cover-up the biggest attack
on the Australian population in history. Only a Royal Commission can uncover the cover-up
of our elected politicians and its bureaucracy.

Let it be known, the truth always comes out! If, as a politician you have a conscience just
like so many whistle-blowers, it's time to speak out and not remain silent.

Thank you for your consideration,
