',     ' Vlembt   ,      Independent Panel,

      i writing this submission as I am very concerned over a number of aspects of
Australia's response to t   ' ^IL      • mdemio Despite the Prime Minister going back
on his word when he said he would have a Royal Commission into the ' ■
pandemic, Australia has been dealt with an Inquiry to look into improving pandemic
preparedness and as a result, there are critical areas that really need scrutinizing.

        teems regarding Specific Pandemic Measures


Communicati             igies: It is very clear that there was an unwarranted excessive
use of fear in public health messaging and media reporting. It's important to analyse
whether such communication strategies m             ective or whether they contributed to
unnecessary panic and distress among the public.

Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had
major detrimental impacts on individual freedoms, social dynamics and the individual's
basic human rights. The        asures, were very often, extremely invasive, and requires
an in depth review to assess their necessity and effectiveness.


Lockdowns, Curfews and Lockouti           economic, social, and psychological impacts
of lockdowns curfews and lockouts have been hugely profound. An evaluation of these
measures is essential to understand their long-tf.    -ects on Australian society and
whether they were the most appropriate response.

Con           larding the Composition and Scope of the Inquiry


Panel Composition: I am very concerned ove                 appointment of Inquiry panel
members who have previously expressed support for certain pandemic measures as this
seriously raises questions about the objectivity and impartiality of the Inquiry. Any Panel
members who have expressed support for such measures should remove themselves
from the Panel.

Exclusion of Unilateral State an         itory Government Decisions: One of the most
significant omissions in the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion of actions taken unilaterally
by state and territory governments. These decisions, including staterimposed lockdowns
and border controls:, were pivotal to the nation's pandemic response and had significant
detrimental effects on all Australians and should be included in the Inquiry.

                                   irehensive Review

While tt      ms of Reference for the Inquiry      tensive, it is crucial that the areas
mentioned above are not glossed over. A truly comprehensive review should include all
aspects of the government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's
scope.

Conclusion

This submission represents my call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation into
Australi,     ' ■     response. It also strongly urges for freedom, liberty and peoples’
basic human rights to never ever, ever be cast aside with the fearmongering as it was
done by the Australian governments during the plandemic with the detrimental effects it
had. We strongly urge the Inquiry to consider these points to ensure transparency,
accountability, and f      her safeguarding of Australian values and liberties that our
diggers so arduously fought for.

Sincerely,

Joanne Kreher
