To whom it may concern

I am a concerned citizen who believes the Government has failed me, my family and countless others in my
community and across this country over the past three years.

The Federal Government must review its actions during the COVID response and make significant changes to
never repeat its mistakes and to protect Australians in the future.

The negative impacts of the government response range from discrimination and societal division to
unreasonable censorship, economic management and a broader lack of fiscal responsibility.

The Federal government failed to protect Australians from being unjustly discriminated against. The Federal
Government could have legislated to protect individual's personal and medical freedoms, by bringing into law
provisions to make it illegal to mandate vaccinations and/or request an individual's vaccination status to
participate in society. Health is a private matter and should be protected like any other category protected
under discrimination legislation. The Government's approach encouraged and condoned discrimination,
creating unnecessary rifts and fractures across society. From my own network, some of the unintended
implications of this includes; marital breakdowns and individuals removing themselves from important societal
initiatives such as organ donation registration.

It is also evident the Federal Government wasted an enormous amount of taxpayer funds on vaccines that
have not been used and are likely to be discarded. There needs to be a review on why so many doses were
ordered when it is understood viruses evolve.

The extent of misinformation by the Government and agencies, as well as censorship, related to COVID and
the vaccines should be a key aspect of the review. The origin of COVID was censored unnecessarily, eroding
public confidence. The single vaccine solution was mercilessly pushed. Science evolves and science requires
interrogation and debate. None of this was allowed during COVID. The effectiveness of the vaccines was
misrepresented, as were the risks of COVID itself. Dialogue regarding lockdowns and potential treatment was
ridiculed and censored in spite of world-renowned experts providing compelling evidence and solutions. The
vaccines did not stop transmission, yet again more misinformation was aggressively pushed by government
and media. There was similar misinformation related to masks and the arbitrary 1.5-meter rule.

There is also growing evidence of significant harms from the vaccines. A colleague of mine passed away having
suffered from myocarditis, after his second Pfizer vaccine. There is a risk/benefit analysis required before
taking any medication, and this decision was taken away from people. This harm, and the coercion
experienced by many, could have been prevented if discrimination was made illegal by the Federal
Government. The fact that, against a backdrop of all the vaccines and medications available, only the COVID
vaccine and Thalidomide, feature as available Medicare claims provides a clue as to the adverse impact this
product has had.

In conclusion, I strongly support the need for the Federal Government to review its response, authentically,
humbly and with transparency, and come up with some guidelines on how to respond more effectively in the
future.

Thank you
