Ph

December 14, 2023



A Royal Commission into Australia's Covid-19 response needs to be urgently undertaken. An unbiased,
open and transparent inquiry needs to be urgently convened to reveal the many mistakes, mistruths and
bias that were clearly exhibited by Australian Regulators and Governments (State and Federal). Such an
Inquiry would make Australia better prepared for the next pandemic. As a concerned Australian citizen, I
want the truth to be revealed no matter what the cost. This issue is by far the most important one since
WW2. Far-reaching questions need to be made to address:

     •   Why was an untested and unproven vaccine (mRNA) was implemented? The original testing was
         not thorough and didn't show efficacy in halting the spread of Covid and showed vaccine injury.
         Ordinarily vaccines take around 10 years to be tested and proven safe for users and subsequent
         generations. Sadly, no testing was carried out that was relevant to future generations, yet now
         studies have shown that future generations are adversely affected. Why did governments and
         regulators maintain that the vaccine was "safe and effective" when it has been shown to be
         neither? On what basis did our "leaders" make these claims?
     •   The first batch of vaccine released to the public was different to the "tested" vaccine. Inquiries
         into the different batches of vaccines and where they were utilised should also be explored.
     •   Basic medical advice was not offered by the Health Regulator. Instead, the advice given was "to
         stay home and only go to hospital when you were really sick".
     •   Basic medical advice such as taking vitamin supplements (e.g. Vit C and D), getting fresh air and
         sunshine, and seeing your doctor was not given by the Health Regulator.
     •   Why were Covid-19 patients released from Emergency departments (that were over-loaded)
         into Aged Care facilities, where many older residents were already immuno-compromised? This
         caused many extra Covid deaths.
     •   Reporting of Covid deaths seems to have been manipulated, and the lack of thorough autopsies
         seems sinister.
     •   Why was Mask wearing enforced when clearly masks are ineffective against such minute viral
         antigens?
     •   The first death due to a Covid vaccine that I heard about was a 49-year-old Adelaide diabetic
         woman (leaving behind 3 teenagers). As a diabetic, why wasn't I (and many others) warned
         against the vaccine until an inquiry was held?
     •   In relation to vaccine-related deaths and injury, why did the Federal government sign away
         responsibility of vaccine manufacturers for their (unproven) products, and why didn't the
         Government themselves take responsibility for vaccine death and injuries? It is unconscionable
         that grieving people were treated in this way, and the little person taking on government
         through the legal system was of course unrealistic and basically an abuse of basic human rights
    •   Pressure on people to receive vaccination was ramped up by governments with society adding
        to the chorus of fear. Mass psychosis seemed to be at play. People were shamed (e.g. you are
        "killing people" by your stance - "spreaders").
    •   Covid-19 was represented internationally as "the disease of the unvaccinated", and no regulator
        in this country corrected that disinformation.
    •   Was there an agenda at work? Why did regulators pile onto some kind of "medical club"? Why
        were many credible (and esteemed) medical experts gagged (and worse, many lost their
        positions). Only a Royal Commission can get to the truth, with the power to call all people
        involved (including current and former state premiers) and the power to follow any money trail.
    •       Why were people blocked from freely expressing their opinions and real concerns?
    •   People were effectively black mailed into getting vaccinated. I lost a job before i had even
        started when the employer informed me that i had to be vaccinated for the position, causing
        financial hardship. Many people couldn't afford to lose their jobs and were effectively forced
        into vaccination against their wills.
    •   Why did the mass media blindly follow the government position, was there coercive forces at
        play behind the scenes?
    •   Interstate travel was banned even for people who needed to attend sick and dying people or to
        attend funerals of loved ones and close relatives - why was no compassion shown.
    •   Why has the government - state and federal - failed to investigate the very high unexpected
        mortality rates in Australia (and abroad) since widespread public vaccination occurred? In the
        first 30 weeks of 2023 10,00 Australians have unexpectedly died, with the number around
        30,000 in the last 3 years. This number is climbing yet it is being ignored by governments and
        the mass media is also ignoring this issue - quite possibly due to the mRNA vaccines.
    •   Australia is on the wrong side of history and people should be held accountable for their actions
        by a far-reaching Royal Commission. At the very least, the "unexpected dead" and their grieving
        families deserve better treatment and a proper explanation informed by the facts.



The Australian federal and state governments and the medical regulators appear to have completely
mishandled the pandemic. There will certainly be more pandemics and so it is vitally important that a
transparent and unbiased Royal Commission with far-reaching powers needs to be conducted urgently.
