Submission to the Covid Inquiry

I am writing this submission to demand a Royal Commission and full investigation into the Australian
Commonwealth Government's COVID-19 response and handling of the pandemic. I was employed
22 years working for one company in mining. That employment was terminated through
government and corporate mandates for a gene therapeutic labelled as a vaccine that I declined to
take.

Australians deserve a Royal Commission into the handling of the covid 19 pandemic. The terms of
reference of this inquiry are too limited as they do not include the independent activities of States
and Territory Governments which imposed draconian requirements upon the public including
mandating experimental vaccines in order for people to be able to keep their jobs. The collusion
between the Federal Government, State and Territory Governments and large corporations also
needs to be reviewed. Large corporations took it upon themselves to implement the draconian
Government measures without reference to fairness, reasonableness or even legislative
requirements. The stress and anxiety caused to people who knew these shots were deadly but were
forced to choose between their own health and well-being and the health and well-being of their
families is scandalous and deserves a full unbiased and transparent Royal Commission.

Waste of Taxpayer Money pursuant to secret vaccine contracts

Why were 255 million vaccine doses purchased by the Federal Government when only a quarter of
this number roughly 60 million were used?

Why were the terms of purchase of the vaccines not made public? There seems to be prima facie
evidence of wrongdoing due to the scandalous over purchasing of vaccines thereby wasting taxpayer
money and lining the pockets of big pharmaceutical companies. Millions of vaccine doses have been
thrown away which means millions of dollars of tax-payer money has been literally poured down the
drain.

Government misinformation

During covid, the Australian Governments put out continual misinformation about:

    •    The efficacy of the PCR Tests for detecting infection- the PCR tests were not fit for purpose
         and this fact was known by the Government health bureaucrats and was well documented
         amongst experts in the alternative media at the relevant time. The now deceased inventor
         (Kary Mullis) of the PCR Test was seen on video confirming that if the PCR test was done with
         enough cycles, anything could be found and this did not prove infection.
    •    That asymptomatic people were infectious - this was a complete fabrication and contrary to
         the science.
    •    That the vaccines prevented transmission - this again was a complete lie that was exposed as
         soon as the vaccinated continued to catch covid.
    •    That the wearing of masks reduced the risks of transmission - it was known prior to the
         pandemic, and it has been proved since the pandemic, that masks do nothing to prevent the
         transmission of a virus. In fact, masks are harmful to the wearer and can lead to a number of
         other serious health complaints. Despite the medical evidence why were mask mandates
         introduced? Why were children in schools forced to wear masks when they were in no real
         danger from the virus?
    •   What changed in the science of masks from the SARS outbreak in 2003 to the Covid-19
        outbreak in 2020? The government warned, retailers who cash in on community fears about
        SARS by exaggerating the health benefits of surgical masks could face fines of up to $110,000
    •   Were these mask mandates for Covid-19 about health or were they about Government
        control, power and overreach? The public deserve truthful answers.
    •   Lockdowns - the devastating effects of lockdowns on the health and well-being of
        Australians was obvious. The scientific evidence for their utility was clear, they did nothing
        to prevent the spread of covid rather they destroyed the mental and economic health of the
        nation. A recent University of Wollongong study found that at least 1 in 4 parents reported
        feeling stressed and overwhelmed and up to 12% of children experienced "very high levels of
        mental health difficulties". There was a marked increase in depression and suicide as a result
        of lockdowns. There was increased substance abuse and domestic violence. The Australian
        Government along with most other western nations happily signed up its population to the
        largest ever psychological experiment with ripple effects on every aspect of human life.
    •   Public health officials unashamedly pushed continual fear mongering messages to the public
        for the purpose of encouraging compliance with unreasonable and draconian Government
        edicts that were contrary to the science, contrary to natural justice and common sense. The
        relevant public health officials need to be held accountable for these actions.

The Australian public deserves a full investigation into the above, not a whitewash inquiry by any of
those involved in pushing the propaganda and false narratives during covid.

The Government is still pushing the misinformation bill and has exempted itself from this legislation.
The reality is that the Government pushes more misinformation into society than any other body and
yet has the audacity to suggest such legislation. This is also scandalous and should be investigated by
a Royal Commission.

Worldwide misinformation pushed by the mainstream media with the same headlines, tag lines
and content shared around the globe in real time.

The Australian Government needs to come clean to the Australian people about the influence of the
World Economic Forum, the World Health Organisation and the United Nations on the Governments
response to the covid 19 pandemic. The Australian public deserve answers from their leaders as to
why there was 'one narrative' that was the same worldwide and there was no real debate or
questioning of the 'science' allowed. Any expert that held a different view to the Government was
censored and ridiculed by the mainstream media and the regulators. This censorship is anti the very
nature of science which involves debate, research, further learning and the ability to adapt the
response to the development of the science. 'Science' was determined by a few approved voices
and was not open to debate. This is not science it is propaganda disguised as science.

Were the vaccines safe and effective or at least fit for purpose?

Why did the Government give $8 billion to big pharma for poorly tested gene-therapies? Clearly part
of the assessment of whether the vaccines are safe and effective and fit for purpose relies upon the
reporting of adverse events. Why did the Government censor and bully everyone and anyone from
criticising the vaccines, thereby aiding and abetting the massive harm done to the population of
Australia through the lack of adverse event reporting? So many doctors and health professionals
were censored and bullied into recommending the vaccine and not providing exemptions. Health
professionals who questioned the efficacy or safety of the vaccines or the actions of the Government
were threatened with the loss of their licence to practice medicine by AHPRA and ATAGI.
The pharmaceutical industry seems to have control of Governments and is unaccountable to any
regulator for the safety or otherwise of its products. This fact needs to be investigated and fully
understood.

Why did the Government mandate vaccines which were not safe and effective and were not fit for
purpose?

Despite the untested nature of the vaccines, Governments took it upon themselves to mandate the
vaccine. This is scandalous and the politicians responsible for these mandates should be held
accountable.

The evidence of vaccine harm is becoming mainstream through the actions of whistleblowers despite
the attempts by Governments around the world to hide the harm done. The forest of the fallen
around the nation provides a visual representation of the harm done to the people by the
Government. People are waking up and are looking to the Government for answers. A whitewash
covid inquiry is not going to satisfy the public, not now, not ever.

It is also relevant that the                                           is under investigation by the Rome
Prosecutor's office for murder for concealing covid-19 vaccine deaths. There are health bureaucrats
around the world who may be investigated in the future as the public continue to demand answers.
This inquiry has the opportunity to conduct a full review of the pandemic and if it does not do so it
risks aiding and abetting the ongoing murder of Australians who continue to be maimed and killed by
these experimental gene therapies.

Conflicts of interest




Please treat the Australian public with respect by setting up a Royal Commission with broad terms of
reference to include the above matters.
