I am submitting this in as a concerned citizen who is disillusioned with that state of
government decision making, industry regulation, and the pharmaceutical industry. Covid
has certainly focused a bright light on this area.

The pharmacy vaccine immunity preventing people who have been harmed by the covid
vaccine to take legal action against the pharmaceutical company is wrong. It allows the
pharmaceutical industry to not thoroughly test to ensure that their vaccines are both safe
and effective. See the Daily Clout Investigative reports detailing the Pfizer and Moderna
Clinical trial data highlighting how the trial report information was suppressed, modified, and
hidden from the public. Please see Daily Clout Reports 1 to 93. Pfizer and Moderna Reports
Archives - DailyClout

Australians should be able to take legal action against pharmaceutical companies that DO
NOT take the utmost care in the development and production of their products and withhold
key information from the public. The Australian public were mandated to take this vaccine
(my husband lost his job). Our entire family was severely affected by poor government policy.
It did not need to be this way. The pharmaceutical clinical trial reports shows evidence that
the product was unsafe and ineffective, and had the Australian authorities demanded access
to this data - the approval of these vaccines would not have been given. Pfizer^                s:
Public Health and Medical Professionals for Transparency Documents 11/2023 - ICAN -
Informed Consent Action Network (icandecide.org)

The last Pfizer clinical trial data information report was released in November 2023 by the
USA FDA to the public under FOI more than 800 days after the FDA agency approved the
Covid Vaccine. (For vaccines ages 16 and up). This information should have been viewed by
the Australian Vaccine approvers (ATAGI / TGA) prior to providing the covid 19 vaccine
approval. Final Batch of Pfizer Documents for Ages 16+ (According to FDA) Finally Released
to the Public - ICAN - Informed Consent Action Network (icandecide.org)

Natural Immunity was ignored. Natural immunity has minimal side effects. Healthy young
people do not die of covid. They do suffer long term side effects and death from pericarditis
and myocarditis caused by the vaccines. " Thai research indicates as many as one in
three teenagers suffer from heart-related problems following mRNA vaccination.”

German insurer highlights 'staggering' rise in adverse effects from COVID-19 vaccines -­
Puppet Masters -- Sott.net

Cardiovascular Effects of the BNT162b2 mRNA COVID-19 Vaccine in Adolescentsfvl] |
Preprints.org

John Campbell Analysis Excess deaths in the young

https://rumble.com/v3vwsms-young-excess-deaths-in-2023.html

Western Australia health authority data shows we are killing 5 people for every person we
might save if the vaccine worked (which it doesn't)

"How could anyone not notice this? In 2021, there were 0 deaths reported for all other
vaccines combined but 87 reported for the COVID vaccine. That's not "bad luck." That's a
disaster."
Western Australia health authority data shows we are killing 5 people for every person we
might save if the vaccine worked (which it doesn't) (kirschsubstack.com)



Miscarriages and stillbirth Evidence

https://childrenshealthdefense.org/defender/switzerland-miscarriages-stillbirths-covid-
shots/

The statistics taken directly from the USA government of working employed Americans who
were mandated to take the vaccines show increase in death and disability. See the analysis
and reports in the links below.

https://phinancetechnologies.com/HumanityProjects/Projects.htm

V-Damage Project

Excess Mortality Project

Cause Unknown by Ed Dowd
Jessica Rose analysis of the USA VAERS Reporting. Number of VAERS Reports by ID for the
past 10 years compared with 2021.

https://rumble.com/v3o4uia-vaers-data-with-dr.-kessica-rose.html



https://www.sott.net/article/471003-German-insurer-highlights-staggering-rise-in-adverse-
effects-from-COVID-19-vaccines



It is hard to take this COVID-19 Response Inquiry seriously when such short timeframes have
been given to respond and only 3 page submissions are allowed. This does not allow for the
huge volume of issues that need to be presented and documented
