To Whom it may concern,



Relating to the Queensland Government's response to covid control which was directly related to
federal and other states responses.

As of the 17th Dec 2021 where the Qld Gov mandated that all unvaccinated people were denied
access to licenced premises and related public meeting places.

To discriminate against any member of the public for deciding to not take a vaccination and
surreptitiously circumventing the Australian constitution is totally unacceptable. As concerning is the
various governments apparent rejection and ignorance of evidence supporting the ineffectiveness of
this vaccine, regardless of manufacturer. To say we now have hindsight is not an excuse as highly
qualified medical professionals were voicing these opinions very early on in the outbreak ( Ref: Dr
                Dr                     others).

These opinions were ignored in preference to those that profited the pharmaceutical companies and
various groups supplying "the world" with products.

Yes, we now see that Face masks, social distancing, vaccines etc didn't stop or prevent the spread of
the virus but the above mentioned experts and many others were voicing this opinion early enough
so that the enormous expenditure and social stress could have been spared.

I was a member of the^^^^^^^^Hor over 30 years until the last tournament I played which was
on the 16th - 17th Dec 2021. On the 16th we played the round in a pro-am style event where we
(professionals) are required by      bylaws to remain after the round and attend presentations and
socialize with attending amateurs. On the 17th however the unvaccinated professionals were not to
play with an amateur and after the round were not allowed to enter the clubhouse and attend
presentations due to the Qld gov covid mandate. We were however expected to walk through the
clubhouse from one end to the other to hand in our scorecard after the round and then immediately
leave without getting a drink or stopping to talk etc. How ridiculous.

As^^rules require us to stay and we (the three unvaccinated) were all happy to do so but not
allowed due to the Qld Gov mandate we were to be fined by the$500 for failing to attend
presentations. Again, how ridiculous.

In a world where discrimination and unfair treatment is totally unacceptable the federal and state
governments behaved in a way that would see others prosecuted and publicly shamed.

Regardless of my love and enjoyment of golf I shortly after this event cancelled my membership of
the^^H To stay a member of an association that cowers to such hypocritical government behaviour
and discriminate against its members would represent a disrespect of self.

How the Government should have responded

    1.       Provide a vaccination for those who felt threatened.
    2.       Isolate the sick and vulnerable/aged
    3.       Let the rest of the country get on with their lives, eg Sweden


Sincerely

Darren Rix
