                                    Submission to the Covid 19 Inquiry

The most important thing that this Inquiry can do is look to Sweden. Sweden took a different approach
to the handling of the Covid 19 pandemic. Their approach relied on people's commonsense, on people
taking advice from government and following the rules e.g. stay home if you sick. In the end Sweden was
no worse off than those countries like Australia who adopted Draconian measures. And even if they
were slightly worse off - and I'm not saying they were - isn't that better than what happened in
Australia we people's rights were taken away, we were governed by people we had not elected,
enormous ongoing collateral damage in terms of social cohesion, health, mental health, and economic
fallout to name few.

Governance

I strongly believe that Chief Medical Officers should not be given the power and responsibility that they
were given during the Covid 19 pandemic. As Chief Medical Offices their responsibility was only to
consider the medical issues that they believed needed to be addressed. They did not have a need or
responsibility to consider the collateral effects of the decisions or the effects on other aspects of
people's health such as mental health, effects on the economy,, family relationships, the welfare of
children. Like any other appointed officer their main responsibility would have been to keep Covid
numbers to a minimum despite any consequences of their decisions. Of course they would want to keep
numbers to a minimum as their reputation depended on that and that alone. The reputations did not
depend on how these decisions affected the other areas of people's lives and society that I have
illustrated above. The consequence of this has been that the collateral effects were disastrous for many
people and the means did not justify the ends.

I strongly believe that the Chief of Police should not be given the same powers and responsibilities they
were given in the Covid 19 pandemic. The same reasons apply that apply to the Chief Medical Officer's
role in the Covid 19 pandemic. They were not required to take allowed collateral damage, and in order
to protect their reputations acted only to limit Covid numbers.

I strongly believe that a representative committee including the government of the day should be
involved in those decisions and Chief Medical Officers and the Chief of Police should be used in a
consultancy capacity. We did not elect these offices to need the country. We elected Premiers and the
Prime Minister. In my opinion they abrogated their responsibilities during the Covid 19 pandemic.

I was, and still am, very much against mandating vaccines, except perhaps for those people who work
directly with the very vulnerable. And is no good claiming that no vaccines were mandated - they were
mandated unless people were prepared to give up their career, and who can afford to do that? And do
not forget that there were very very very few people who are actually at risk from this infection. This
was lost amongst all the exaggeration and propaganda. Even when Chief Medical Officers knew that the
vaccine did not prevent transmission and they knew that no- one was at serious risk of death or serious
illness from Covid 19 unless they had several serious medical conditions or were old or frail, they kept
up the lies and propaganda going so that people were convinced that the risk to them of getting Covid
19 was so great that healthy young people willingly lined up for the vaccine. And parents made sure that
their children got the vaccine - children who were not at all at risk. Some people, because of the
propaganda, got the children vaccinated 'to protect their parents or their grandparents'. This was even
the case when it was known that the vaccine did not stop t transmission. Was this made clear? No it was
not.

The campaign generated across Australia and the world quickly led to many people believing that if they
caught Covid they would die or at the very least get a very serious disabling illness. This I believe was
deliberate misinformation to convince people to get this untested, experimental vaccine into people.
With any new pandemic any vaccine will be untested and experimental. By untested I mean in the sense
that it would not have been on the market for more than a few months and the testing before it was
approved was, by its very nature, limited. As I'm sure most you are aware that the effects of
pharmaceutical interventions are often not discovered for years after their appearance on the market.
(And this is in part due to corrupt pharmaceutical companies, all of whom are constantly being sued for
lies. Most of these I get to court - they are settled out of court.) I think it was a criminal for Chief
Medical Officers and others to call this vaccine safe and effective. No vaccine or medication has been on
the market for only a few months can be declared safe for the reasons expressed above. Is a professor
of medicine told me that no recently discovered medical intervention can be called safe unless that has
been around for at least a generation. I think this one of the most disgrace it disgraceful aspects of the
propaganda campaign get people to have that vaccine. Even pregnant women were required to have
the vaccine! For^^^^^| if you can't see it that is a crime against those women and their children just
because of the risk then I don't understand your thinking.

Everyone knows people who are badly affected by this vaccine but everyone knows that it's impossible
to get any action about this because doctors were silenced - another thing which was disgraceful and
should not happen again - and the difficulty of proving things in a non supportive environment is too
much for people.

And                    ^^^|University who develop a non-M NRA vaccine which had been trialed
successfully in Iran faced active opposition by the Chief Medical Officer in South Australia even refusing
to allow the exemption for the mRNA vaccine for those people who were lucky enough to get into the
trial here. What a ^^^^^disgrace! Our own brilliant world-renowned scientist gets no supporting his
own country. This needs to be investigated.

And as for lockdowns, the management of those was another disgrace. Since it appears that the federal
government has no control over what states do in this regard , there has to be some kind of Federal
legislation to enable the federal government to step in where States implement unnecessarily Draconian
measures in regards to lockdowns and other actions .

The only advice about how to avoid or minimise the effect of getting Covid 19 was vaccinate! Vaccinate!
Vaccinate!. Not once did I hear any government advice about how to strengthen your immune system!
This was the perfect opportunity to have some health campaigning to get people off processed and junk
foods but no, what happened instead? People were locked in consuming more and more of those
things, putting on weight, becoming more and more unhealthy. And consequently of course more
vulnerable to Covid 19.

Lockdowns should occur only under the most extreme- and I mean extreme - circumstances. Covid 19
was not the plague. It was at most a severe version of our flu like illness. Therefore lockdowns were
completely unnecessary and should not have happened at all in this country. We are not Italy where
families live on top of each other with three generations in crowded situations. The spread to old people
and vulnerable people was always going to be less in this country.

If we didn't have lockdowns we wouldn't need to plan for support for increased suicide, domestic
violence, mental health problems, educational problems etc. the collateral damage caused by lockdowns
is so huge that governments should never resort to them unless there is no other option.

And under no circumstances should schools ever be closed.

And since we know there are going to be other pandemics the federal government should get a process
or a policy worked out for how and if they are going to pay people who are forced not to work. A policy
like job keeper should never ever happen again. It was deliberately (as admitted by the government)
developed to be not transparent (unlike New Zealand which where everything related to their
equivalent screen was transparent), and it paid the most ridiculous groups of people a lot of money. For
example I know uni students who did a bit of part-time work for a few hours who got the full job keeper!
They were laughing all the way to the bank - or to the fashion stores online. And companies that do not
lose money but who claimed and received funding to support workers should be required to return the
money if they in fact do not make a loss. That that didn't happen this time is outrageous.

It is obvious that the government should support the development and maintenance of all industries
that provide essentials for life in terms of medications and food and other essential supplies. In the end
the government must protect its people and any free trade agreements should have caveats that allow
for this kind of protective enterprise.

People should not be denied access to experts who disagree with government policy. This only creates
distrust and so-called conspiracy theories. This is a democracy and we should have access to all the
information that is out there.
