      Submission to the COVID-19 Inquiry - Health Response Measures


1. Introduction
As a few brief words of introduction, I retired in 2017 after a 50 year career with Australia’s Defence
Science and Technology Group (DSTG). While my major career activities at DSTG were associated
with supporting the Australian Government’s chemical and biological disarmament objectives, I also
spent a substantial part of my career working with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and a
substantial part of my career supporting efforts aimed at the prevention of bioterrorism events, and the
medical community’s response to these events. This included working closely with scientific and
medical staff employed by relevant Australian government agencies and the Australian Defence
Force, as well as international and overseas agencies including the World Health Organisation
(WHO), INTERPOL, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta (US). I
was also closely involved in the operation of the ANU National Centre for Biosecurity (NCB) which
was established in 2007 (including in my role as Chair of the NCB Advisory Board).1
In this submission, I briefly describe my observations and reflections on some of the difficulties
associated with the way that the Commonwealth Department of Health (DoH) handled the various
Health Response Measures, in particular non-pharmaceutical measures, during the early phase of the
COVID-19 pandemic (Sections 2 and 3). Based on these difficulties, I recommend that the Inquiry
Panel considers several proposals which I consider will improve Australia’s preparedness for future
pandemics (Section 4).


2. Insufficient attention by Commonwealth Department of Health to Future Health Challenges
I had been working with officers in the Commonwealth Department of Health (DoH) on a range of
‘biosecurity’ issues since the early 2000s, in particular, following the ‘reconstruction’ of the Spanish
Flu virus in a laboratory in 2004 and the more recent gain-of-function research on potential pandemic
pathogens. This included assisting the DoH in the development of the oversight procedures for
Australian laboratories working with Security Sensitive Biological Agents (SSBAs). Based on my
experience and expertise in these areas, in 2010 I was invited by the US Government to participate in
a US National Intelligence Council Workshop in Washington on future global challenges. The
unclassified report from that workshop referred to the likelihood of a pandemic by 2030.2 The report
expressed concern about rapid advances in genetic engineering of pathogens and noted that ‘An easily
transmissible novel respiratory pathogen that kills or incapacitates more than one per cent of its
victims is among the most disruptive events possible’.
There was clearly interest in these future health challenges when I subsequently discussed them with
DoH desk-level officers. However, I am unsure of the level of interest or support from senior DoH
management, based on their apparent limited appreciation of PPE and quarantine requirements and
other necessary protection measures, which was reflected in the limited preparedness within DoH to
respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020 (as discussed in Section 3).




1      Unfortunately the NCB ceased to function in 2012 at least in part through lack of support from relevant
government agencies.
2      “Global Trends 2030: Alternative Worlds, a publication of the National Intelligence Council”,
December 2012, p. 13. [www.dni.gov/files/documents/GlobalTrends_2030.pdf ].
3. Lack of appreciation by DoH of implications of the Aerosol Transmission of SARS-CoV-2
By way of background, it has been known for decades within the Biological Defence and
Disarmament communities that airborne (aerosol) transmission is a major route for infection by
respiratory viruses. And this information became very clear to the medical and other health experts
working on the SARS-1 outbreak in 2003 and with more recent infectious disease outbreaks,
including MERS. Because of the close molecular homology and other similarities between SARS-
CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2,1 had no doubt that there would be substantial levels of aerosol
transmission of SARS-CoV-2, which would result in large numbers of infections unless appropriate
Health Response Measures were adopted taking the aerosol infection route fully into account.
So I was very surprised when I first heard medical experts from DoH, including the DoH Infection
Control Expert Group (ICEG), advising the public that there was no aerosol transmission of COVID-
19 (except during certain medical procedures, such as intubation). And I was dismayed in early April
2020 when I first heard the DCMO of the DoH say that Australians should not be wearing facemasks
and that ‘people who wore facemasks could be putting themselves in more danger of contracting the
coronavirus by doing so.’3
This led to what turned into a letter writing campaign by me to Mr Hunt and the DoH (nine letters
between April 2020 and September 2021), inter alia, on: the various aspects of the aerosol
transmission of SARS-CoV-2; the important role of facemasks as part of the overall Infection
Minimisation Strategy; the impact of aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-2 on the effectiveness of
various types of facemasks in different risk settings; the limited value of the 1.5 metre ‘safe­
distancing’ rule, especially in indoor settings; and the impact of aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-2
on the city hotel based quarantine facilities established early in the pandemic.4
For example, in a letter that I wrote to Mr Hunt in September 2020,1 suggested that it would be useful
for the DoH to recruit additional members for the ICEG who had expertise in aerosol science and
PPE, and for the ICEG to then review its recommendations with respect to aerosol transmission of
SARS-CoV-2, the wearing of particular types of facemasks in different risk settings, and the aerosol
precautions that would be necessary for a safe and effective quarantine facility. My suggestion was
ignored by the DoH.
Fortunately, when I wrote to the Victorian Department of Health and Human Services about these
matters in late June 2020, the Victorian officials did listen to my views and also to the similar views
that had been provided by a number of internationally recognised Australian academic scientists, as
well as taking note of a petition signed by 239 eminent international scientists in early July 2020.
This led the Victorian Government to ‘go beyond’ the advice provided by the DoH and introduce the
compulsory wearing of facemasks on 22 July 2020. Other State Governments subsequently followed
the lead taken by Victoria by also ‘going beyond’ the advice provided by the ICEG.



3        I was subsequently advised by a former Canberra colleague that in March 2020 there was a shortage of
high quality P2/N95 facemasks in the National Medical Stockpile, as most of these masks had been used during
the bushfires in late 2019/early 2020, and that the advice provided by the DCMO/DoH may have been intended
to reduce the likelihood that members of the public would try to obtain these high-quality facemasks leaving
them in even shorter supply to health-care and other front-line workers.
4        The decision to use hotels in the central business districts as quarantine facilities was taken by the State
Governments during the early phase of the pandemic before they had become aware that aerosol transmission is
a major COVID-19 fransmission/infection route. I was subsequently advised that had the Premiers and their
advisors realised the importance of aerosol transmission as an infection route, that the State Governments may
have made additional or alternative arrangements to better meet their quarantine requirements.
However, the apparent lack of awareness or appreciation of the airborne (aerosol) transmission of
SARS-CoV-2 by the ICEG resulted in the ICEG continuing to provide inappropriate advice, guidance
and recommendations regarding the wearing of respirators and facemasks by the health-care workers,
aged-care workers, and the general community. Some health experts have argued that this incorrect
advice provided by the DoH and ICEG resulted in considerably greater numbers of infections and
casualties within the various sectors, including in the hotel quarantine facilities.


4. Lessons for the Future
Based on the handling of the Health Response Measures by DoH, particularly during the early phase
of the COVID-19 pandemic, as outlined in Sections 2 and 3 above, I recommend that the Inquiry
Panel considers the following proposals:

    •   The Australian Government to establish an inter-agency working group, with active
        participation by relevant senior officials from DoH, to keep abreast of advances in ‘cutting
        edge’ biological sciences including research on potential pandemic pathogens, and other
        developments which may indicate the possibility of a future major disease outbreak.
    •   The Australian government, under the management/oversight of the DoH, to establish and
        maintain the capability to produce sufficient numbers of the various types of PPE (including
        N95/P2 quality facemasks) that would be necessary during a future major disease outbreak.
    •   The DoH, in coordination with the States and Territories governments, to establish and
        maintain a purpose-built quarantine facility in the vicinity of a major airport in each State and
        Territory.5
    •   A comprehensive review be undertaken of those parts of DoH which would have
        responsibilities in the management of a future major disease outbreak. A key objective of this
        review would be to make recommendations that would result in the development and
        maintenance of in-house expertise within DoH of all aspects of the Health Response
        Measures necessary to provide the most appropriate responses in the event of a major disease
        outbreak.
    •   Review the operation of the DoH Infection Control Expert Group, with the objective of
        achieving an ICEG that includes a much broader range of expertise so that all relevant aspects
        of Infection Control can be considered by the Expert Group.
    •   Develop a formal process in which external experts (for example, academics or scientists
        working in other government agencies) would be able to have input into DoH in-house
        decisions and the guidance provided either by the DoH in-house experts or from the ICEG.


I would be happy to discuss these proposals in more detail with the Inquiry Panel. I would also be
willing to provide copies of the letters that I have written to the DoH and other related correspondence
to the Inquiry Panel on request.




Dr Robert J Mathews OAM, MSc, DSc, FRACI, FIUPAC
17 December 2023


5         As suggested in a letter that I wrote to Premier Andrews in December 2020, these quarantine facilities
could be located close to public transport and designed in such a way that they could be used as budget priced
tourist accommodation when not required for quarantine purposes. They could possibly be built and operated in
conjunction with private enterprise, and would not need to become ‘white elephants’.
