Covid Inquiry Submission

A severe, immoral over-reaction by governing authorities on all accounts, sums
up my submission to the Covid Inquiry.

Lockdowns and restrictions
Restricting movement of people wanting to travel between States should not
have occurred.

Lockdown's negative impact on schools, small business and the entertainment
industry was particularly unfair in the immediate and long term.

The most significant long-term negative impacts of locking down society, and
the ensuing financial stimulus measures are currently presenting themselves,
with the full extent of the effect yet to be realised.

Vaccines and Mandates
Encouraging businesses and governments to enforce mask and vaccine
mandates was an obscene overreach in government and regulatory policy.

The risk assessments that lead to mandatory vaccination in the workplace
policies caused significant harm to many people, both physically and
psychologically.

The mandate equated to social and economic coercion. This action is immoral
and should never occur. It was incredibly short sighted, given the novel nature
of the treatment being mandated, with limited safety data. This was an
infringement on basic human rights and should never be tolerated.

The prohibition of cheap, safe alternatives, such as Ivermectin by authorities is
a major concern for our freedom of choice. This was a significant over-reach by
authorities. Natural immunity should never be underestimated.

The censorship of medical professionals, and public generally, who express
alternate views to the health regulators, is appalling. I thought we lived in a
democracy. To avoid being ignorant, one should constantly look for alternate
opinions from credible sources, to form a balanced understanding.

It is becoming clear the recommended treatments for Covid are neither safe
nor effective.
My Evidence
The truth stands up on its own, and therefore does not require regulators and
governing authorities to silence alternative evidence.

The evidence to support my submission is Natural Law. The principles of
Natural Law are immutable.

Those whose actions exceed the boundary conditions of these laws, will face
the consequences of their actions.

Yours Sincerely




15/12/2023
