I was coerced by a prospective employer to take the vaccine against my better
judgment in March of 2022.

I applied for and was successful in an application to gain employment in the
mining industry. I passed all prerequisites, qualifications, prior work history,
police checks, physical and mental assessments.
The one remaining requirement to becoming a full time employee was for me to
submit to the covid vaccine.
Due to my hesitance that was inspired by the publicly announced deaths from
vaccine reactions , the unproven and untested nature of the experimental
R.N.A. vaccines and its rapid deployment into the general public, I was informed
by the H.R. department that I would only be employed if I submitted to the
vaccine.

Eventually (after doing my research) I came to the conclusion that the Novavax
was the option with the least risk to my health, due to the fact that it was
protein based and coming from a proven vaccine technology.
I incorrectly assumed it was the safer option.
I made a booking at the pharmacist informed him that I was acting under
duress.
He carried out the procedure and I went home with a mild headache and fever.
Later that night and every following night for a week at about 3:00 am I woke
with chronic chest pain.
| accessed the internet on the first occurrence and queried the symptoms I was
experiencing.
The question I was asked in the forum was; Do you feel a greater discomfort
when lieing down? I went back to bed laid down and the pain in my chest
immediately became unbearable.

Due to the fact that I had been unemployed for a period and really needed work
I did not call emergency services as I was concerned that if my employer had
have discovered this issue the offer would be rescinded.

The weeks that followed were terrifying to say the least I was short of breath,
weak and suffered greatly until the eventual reduction in intensity of the
symptoms that I was told were myocarditis.

I am angry and have lost ALL faith in the medical, political, media and scientific
establishments.

NOTHING SHORT OF LEGAL ACTION WILL RECTIFY THIS GROSS ABUSE OF
POWER!!!
