Submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
Dear Sir/Madam,

This is my personal submission regarding the Covid 19 response.

The overall impact that the Government’s response had on both myself and my wife and our
extended family was disgraceful. As a fulltime carer of my wife who suffers with^^^^J
^^^^■the impact it had on our mental health was horrific.

Due to my wife’s condition, we decided early on that she would NOT be receiving any of the
experimental Covid shots. This was due to the fact that her

                                                                           er Neurologist
said ‘Any vaccine can cause inflammation and he advised against anymore vaccines,
especially the influenza shots. Therefore the decision was made by both of us not to
participate in our government’s experiment.

Living in a large over 55’s retirement resort on                                     he impact
of the decisions that were made by the Government and it’s relevant Health departments
impacted us considerably. The lockdowns affected the 600+ residents in our village so much
so that their physical as well as mental health deteriorated greatly. Then when things started
to return to normal, the two of us were impacted again. Not having been jabbed we were not
allowed to even enter our Community Hall or participate in any activities within our village
or even enter any cafes or restaurants etc. Our mental health suffered so much so that I
personally suffered from anxiety and depression that lasted months.

Many of our friends and family suffered greatly due to the lockdowns. Our daughter was not
able to visit us for months and that had a considerable impact on my wife and her medical
condition.

Then to top it off                                     nded up with two ambulance trips to the
                          due to heart issues after the Pfyzer Covid shots.
                   she had intense pains in her chest and was rushed to hospital. On both
occasions she was fobbed off by the overstretched Doctors and sent back home on the same
day of the event. Only after a couple of months when she could finally get into see a heart
specialist (at her own expense) was she given a prognosis of Myocarditis. The specialist said
it would have been bought on by the Pfyzer shots.

The additional stress for both my wife and I


The way the rollout of the dreaded Covid ‘Vaccines’ was done was disgraceful. The amount
of pressure everyone was put under to get the jabs was terrible. The amount of lies that all of
Australia was told by both the government and the mainstream media was wrong. Nothing
the relevant Health authorities were saying could be believed. Then when most professions
and many industries were mandated to be injected with the experimental ‘vaccines’ we were
simply shocked and could not believe this was happening in our democratic nation Australia.
On one hand we had the Prime Minister telling every Australia that ‘No Australian will be
forced to take the Covid vaccines’ then on the other hand the State Governments were
implementing ‘Vaccine mandates’ and forcing everyone to get them or be sacked.

I believe that hundreds of thousands of hard-working Australians were forced to leave their
lifelong careers due to the mandates. In many cases leading to acute shortages in Nursing
Staff, Doctors, Specialists, Police officers, Firemen, Ambulance Paramedics, etc. Most of
these professionals decided not to participate in our government’s rushed introduction of the
experimental Covid ‘vaccines’. The evidence was not there that these so called ‘vaccines’
were actually ‘safe and effective’.

Even now many professionals who decided not to be ‘vaccinated’ are still not permitted in
certain industries to return to their respective professions. Most public hospitals are still
acutely understaffed as Ambulance Paramedics, Doctors and Nursing Staff have still not been
able to return to work. This can be seen by the amount of ambulance ramping at most of
Queensland’s hospitals. And no doubt every public hospital Australia wide.

I believe that it come out earlier this year by the WHO that: ‘The Covid 19 vaccines don’t
stop the transmission or stop the person that has had the shots from getting the virus’ This is
quite evident when you see the amount of people that have been ‘vaccinated’ and were still
contracting the virus. In many cases severely. From our own personal experience neither of
us (unvaccinated) caught the Covid virus throughout the entire ‘so called Pandemic’ but
many of our friends and family did in fact become very ill with the covid virus even after
subjecting themselves to the so called ‘vaccines’ and subsequent booster shots.

I also read recently that the Federal Government is still purchasing more covid ‘Booster
shots’ as late as October this year. The Federal government is still wasting Tax Payers money
on medications that don’t even work. The Astralian government is increasing the massive
profits that the likes of Pfyzer and Moderna have already made. I have also read that our
Federal Government is helping to finance massive manufacturing plants in co-operation with



   •   Well over 150,000 Australians have suffered from countless often severe allergic
       reactions. Conditions that include long term health conditions of the heart like
       Myocarditis, Pericarditis, Myocardial Infarction, Auto-Immune conditions such as
       Multiple Sclerosis, Lupus, Guillian-Barre syndrome, Ulcerative Colitis, Crohn’s
       Disease, Rheumatoid Arthritis, just to name a few. In addition to this, these
       experimental Covid ‘vaccines’ have caused hundreds of deaths. Although only 14
       deaths are reported on the TGA website up to 14th December 2023 there was 952
       reported deaths associated with the shots. Our government in its wisdom decided (just
       like every other nation) to give the Big Pharma indemnity against liability for any or
       all side effects or deaths from the Covid ‘vaccines’ That placed the burden on our
       own government to pay every person in Australia any compensation they deserve
       from Injury or death.

I believe that at one stage a couple of years ago the government made an announcement that
any person that presented to a public hospital in Australia and was admitted overnight were
able to put a claim in for $1000.00. Perhaps that was why 99% of people who presented to a
public hospital were ushered out the same day even though many were still showing
symptoms of vaccine damage.
Therefore, any Australian that has been vaccine injured or died from the implementation of
the Covid jabs has to pursue compensation through the legal system. This situation is
certainly not ideal as the person has to engage with the legal system, which is both costly and
complex, and there’s no guarantee of success. Compensation may not even be possible via
our legal system. That’s because in most cases, it will be difficult to show in court a serious
side-effect was due to a fault in the ‘vaccine’ composition or negligence in the way it was
administered.

Therefore in Australia, people with a vaccine injury, either Covid-19 or any other vaccine,
will likely bear the costs of their injury by themselves, and seek treatment by our publicly
funded or private health systems.

Even our NDIS scheme dose NOT cover temporary vaccine-related injuries. That leaves
literally hundreds of thousands of vaccine injured people in Australia virtually out on a limb.
Not being able to return to work, with little to no income and struggling to make ends meet
for their families.

The pittance that the government announced a couple of years ago for any person that
presented to a public hospital (a mere $1000.00) is like a slap in the face to everyday
Australians. The last time I looked it can cost literally $millions just to support one person in
Australia that ends up with permanent vaccine damage.

It is disgraceful and disresptful how a democratically run nation can be treated by its own
government. The confidence of the Australian population in our governments both State and
Federal and their respective politicians is at an all-time low and may never ever be restored
due to the damage caused by our government officials, bureaucrats, health ministers and
health authorities throughout Covid.

We both personally believe that a Royal Commission into the Covid-19 response and the way
it was handled and is still being handled is the only way forward. With the huge number of
families that have been vaccine damaged skyrocketing throughout the nation a Royal
Commission must be held to avoid this ever happening again to everyone of us living in this
wonderful country.

Sincerely,

Gary Olive
