Date: 06.03.2022

Nicole Stokes
Senior Educator




                                              Urgent

Matter:Nicole Stokes- Show Cause Response



Dear Mr

For the avoidance of doubt, I write to you in good faith and have had assistance in preparing
my response to show cause by my trade union. I apologise for the templated format of this
letter and refer to your letter dated March 2nd, 2022 regarding the potential termination of my
employment.

I continue to assert that I am ready, willing and able to work, and refute any allegations of
serious misconduct under laws relevant to my employment, such as Regulation 1.07 of the
Fair Work Regulations 2009 (Cth) or any relevant State industrial relations legislation. I
kindly request that you remove termination as an option and engage with myself and my
appointed representatives with respect to the below.

I am a loyal employee of                                      as a Senior Educator, I have
worked here for 9 years, and this is my last ‘throw of the dice’ attempt to urge restraint, to
stop this process and destruction of my career and ability to make a living while I exercise
my workplace rights.

I assert that I have previously sought consultation from you. I have expressed my right to
make a complaint or inquiry, specifically regarding occupational health and safety by making
multiple requests to obtain a risk assessment relevant to my specific circumstances.

    1.                                                        acts                         and all
         of the following trade unions / industrial associations, including myself as a respective
         members and have advised you directly of the same to protect and advance my
         industrial interests:
2.                                                 This generic correspondence is regrettable, but is unav
     and volume of members impacted.

3.                                                    I have attended meetings and have responded to comm
     extent it is being characterised as a discipline, show cause or in relation to any refusal
     to follow a lawful order meeting, this is strongly disputed as being entirely unfair and
     unreasonable, as there is no proper basis for that conclusion.


4.                                                   I would have been grateful for the opportunity to cons
     Controls and the COVID-19 vaccine requirements, within the workplace, at a
     departmental level. I was willing to share with you many relevant discussion points and
     questions regarding this complex and time pressing matter.

5.                                            I wish to express my dismay, and convey to you that I h
     to engage in a meaningful degree of consultation with you, to an extent that my
     concerns have been satisfied.

6.                                                As I am in essence 'flying blind’ to your position and the
     present me a show cause, when I have not yet been afforded an opportunity to reach
     a conclusive decision about the vaccine due to the lack of consultation.

7.                                                    I cannot see fit to make a decision about the COVID-19
     that consultation has been afforded. I do not believe that consultation has satisfactorily
     been provided by merely providing me information in the form of surveys, Q&A’s,
     bulletins, emails, letters, and other content of like.

8.                                                 Any prompts or invitations to attend consultation mee
     dispute, particularly where no agenda has been stipulated, will undoubtedly generate
     unnecessary feelings of fear, anxiety, and/or duress to me. it cannot be contemplated
     by you that consultation will now be effective, unless the show cause process is
     completely revoked.

9.                                                 But for Victoria, I note that the public health orders are
     that an end to the public health order may be near.
    10.                                              The mandate simply stipulates that employers must
          employees who fall under this mandate, and ensure that no unvaccinated employees
          access the workplace in person.

    11.                                                In light of the above points, should it not be feasible to
          arrangements until such time as the public health order ceases to exist, offer me the
          opportunity to be stood down with access to my employee entitlements, or offer me an
          extended period of non-paid leave thus generating no greater a burden to you.

    12.                                                  It is my belief that an employer is bound by a hierarchy o
          mitigating risks. This assessment can only be performed once a risk assessment has
          been completed in accordance with relevant OH&S/WH&S laws and there has been
          satisfactory consultation in line with my EBA and award with regard to this.

    13.                                                Any claim that a request for risk assessment and/or co
          influence the outcome of your decision regarding my ongoing employment cannot be
          sustained. This assumes that the process of risk assessment, and the opportunity to
          gather a deeper and more meaningful understanding of the risk to myself, will not
          create a change in my view of the COVID-19 vaccine. In fact, this could completely
          satisfy my needs and concerns as an employee.

    14.                                                  Finally, it has already been determined in Australia tha
          satisfy an employee's need for consultation. I ask you to consider the following case:
              a. CFMMEU & Matthew Howard v Mt Arthur Coal Pty Ltd T/A Mt Arthur Coal
                  [2021] FWCFB 6059.

Finally, I ask you to reconsider acting with such speed to make disciplinary findings as there
is no requirement under any PH Direction to terminate my employment and other options do
exist.

Please urgently confirm that the show cause process is stayed, and that I may continue to
exercise my industrial rights surrounding dispute resolution until I can contemplate reaching a
sound and secure decision about the COVID-19 vaccine. I will continue to engage with my
Industrial representatives on the matter and will hope that you feel likewise inclined to involve
them in further and ongoing correspondence on the matter.




Kind regards,

Nicole Stokes
Please include the following email in all further correspondence:

(A central email of                     and
