   1.   How can international cooperation be improved to prevent, prepare for, and respond to,
        future pandemics and other international health emergencies? more effectively?

To prevent, prepare and respond to potential health threats, a review of the disastrous
COVID-19 pandemic response by the W.H.O, U.N and individual countries would be a good
starting point to improve effective pandemic preparedness. We learn from our mistakes or
are doomed to repeat them. During the pandemic, Australia blindly followed directives from
an organisation of elites that are unaccountable for their actions, have diplomatic immunity,
and are tax exempt. The W.H.O scripted and controlled what the medical community,
media and individuals could say. Those who spoke out with an opposing view were labelled
as conspiracy theorists and spreaders of mis / dis information. Open, transparent, and
unbiased dialogue is the only to reach the best outcome for any situation. Four years on, we
see that much of what was then considered misinformation, such as the fact that the
vaccine does not stop transmission, invermectin and hydroxychloroquine are good remedies,
and that lock-downs are detrimental to health and economies is true.

A few (of which there are many) Noteworthy topics to investigate:

   1)   Effectiveness of lockdowns - Empirical evidence (not modelling as the whole
        pandemic was framed) prove that lockdowns were a Global policy failure of gigantic
        proportion. This paper was published on the 5th of June 2023 by the London based
        Institute of Economic Affairs. It is a 200-page report and free to download. I suggest
        you do so. Dr. John Campbell - Evidence on covid restrictions now conclusive -
        17min. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qrleYpCpOfc

   2) Risk vs. Benefit of vaccines vs. Natural Immunity - With 30% mortality rate up in all
      countries that coerced their populations into mandatory vaccinations, it would be
      good to look at the mRNA technology and why we see excess deaths up worldwide.
      Forced vaccinations is not a health-based approach, especially when exposure to
      gain natural immunity has always been the gold standard. The sick and vulnerable
      will always be sick and vulnerable. To lock down the majority for the safety of the
      minority is not a solution.
   3) W.H.O agenda - When an organisation is funded 85% by commercial sources, such as
      GAVI and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, it calls into question the motivation
      behind the determination of a public emergency. International agencies involved in
      coordinating a pandemic response must not have a vested interest in the outcome
      of health emergencies. Evidence of this pay to play scenario manifested itself during
      COVID with the biggest transfer of wealth in history for vaccine stockholders and
      other parties involved i.e., Ap tracking, hand sanitiser companies, face mask
      manufacturers, etc....



   2.   What issues do you think need to be prioritised to guide the world's future preparation for,
        and responses to, future pandemics and other international health emergencies?

   1.   Investment into good health and nutrition is vital to the prevention of disease.
        Ensuring all countries have access to clean water, proper sewage, a minimum
        standard of living, and proper health care, whether it be natural healing, herbal or
        pharmaceutical, is essential to the prevention of emergencies.

   2.   Reinstatement of nutrition classes into medical school curriculums is an important part
        of treating and preventing ill health and future pandemics. The removal of nutrition
         classes from medical school course selection calls into question the influence of big
         pharma on health outcomes. During COVID (or future health emergencies), are
         these medical “experts" funded by pharmaceutical companies? Or did they receive
         grants for research projects, or scholarships to medical school, or were they placed in
         key government positions? There must be no room for bias in making decisions that
         affect responses to a health crisis!

    3.   Shutting down gain of function research and closing bio labs that are manufacturing
         viruses like COVID-19 is another way to prevent future pandemics.

   4.    An investigation into Who, why and how people were getting sick and dying from
         past pandemics is a good guide to future health emergencies? The most vulnerable
         during COVID-19 were immunocompromised, had unhealthy weights, and those who
         had deficiencies in their diet. Instead of encouraging a healthy food and lifestyle
         approach, during COVID, people were told to stay at home and self-isolate, which
         caused an increase in mental illness and increase in suicide. The refusal and banning
         of safe remedies such as ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, NAC, etc.... also caused
         many unnecessary deaths. Incentives given to hospitals for the administration of
         remdesivir and use of ventilators was a death sentence.

I ask you.... Why would Australia continue to blindly follow directives from the W.H.O, an
organisation of unaccountable elites, that have made no review of their disastrous
pandemic response that caused many unnecessary deaths due to their protocols? We learn
from our mistakes or are doomed to repeat them.



3. Is there any other information you would like to provide that might help to guide Australia's
engagement on a new international pandemic instrument and changes to the IHR?

As representatives of the people, I would hope that you would take the time necessary to
investigate the U.N and W.H.O. Some questions for you to answer should be...... Who
provides funding to the W.H.O and U.N? Do the people funding the organisation have a
vested interested in the decisions that are made? Who over sees their decisions? How did
these people come into positions of power?

On the surface these organisations may appear to have the right intentions; however, a
deeper look shows another agenda. The W.H.O wants to become a legislative authority
instead of an advisory board, giving them extraordinary powers that are binding on all
Australians. The following video link (20 min) is a good summary of the International Health
Treaty. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GkhjH2y$MUw

The second video link should open your eyes to one of the many ulterior agendas by the
W.H.O. Australia should want no part in this deranged organisation of self-appointment
globalists They have no intention of protecting us from future disease or predatory
behaviour, https://australiaexitsthewho.com/aew-video/crossroads/ (2min)

 Parliamentarians, do you really understand the implications of the proposed IHR
amendments? The proposed IHR Treaty will make the “advisory" recommendations issued in
the COVID-19 pandemic MANDITORY for future public emergencies. Forced lockdowns WILL
be implemented for real or perceived threats to health, environment, discrimination,
disinformation, freedom of speech and/or any reason the WHO deems necessary.
These proposed treaty and amendments to the International Health Regulations undermine
our democratic society by giving away our power/sovereignty to the WHO, which is
comprised of a group of unelected elites that are unaccountable for their actions, have
diplomatic immunity, and are tax exempt. The current power grab by the WHO bears no
rebalance to what this organisation set out to do 75 years ago.

“May I remind those in Australian Parliament that you are servants of the people, not our
masters, and have a duty to represent your constituents and their rights. You should not sign
off our sovereignty without the agreement of the people. And that would take a
referendum in every country. We should settle for nothing less!"

Dr. John Campbell - New WHO International Health Regulations concerns as presented by
Anrew Bridgen in UK parliament - 12min.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q MhB4BWOa8


I believe this is the MOST important issue and of an urgent nature, as it will affect the way
Australia is allowed to react to a potential or real health threat.

For those who ask, “how could the W.H.O and/or the U.N force us to do anything?'1 the
answer is through sanctions. Russia was recently sanctioned by the U.N using the UN-
adjacent .SWIFT payment system, effectively blocking Russia from making or receiving
payment for exports and imports. The SWIFT charter requires it to follow sanctions received
from the UN. Iran was also sanctioned in this manner in 2012, at a great cost to their
economy.

A current example of how the W.H.O and U.N could orchestrate another pandemic is the
CCHF virus. Mainstream media suggest that the spread of CCHF is due to climate change,
when there is no evidence to support this hypothesis. Why is the media insinuating that the
spread of CCHF is now due to climate change, “climate change helping the spread of the
CCHF virus?" What is the real motivation behind creating inflammatory headlines? The
reality of the situation is that the first evidence of CCHF dates back to the 12th century, so this
is not a new virus. Spain identified cases of CCHF 7 years ago with the first case diagnosed in
2011 and another case in 2014 with no mention of these cases being linked to climate
change. Why link climate change to CCHF now? Does it suit a narrative or is there an
ulterior motive? Might it be motivated by money as several pharmaceutical manufacturers
have CCHF vaccine patents pending?

If the World Health Organisation’s pandemic plan was in effect, the W.H.O could place all of
Europe or the entire world for that matter into a lock down! If Australia does not say, “We Do
Not Consent11 to this draconian treaty, we will be giving power to this group of corrupt,
unelected officials with ulterior motives (i.e., vaccine royalties, control, manipulation, and
power grabs, etc...). Is this really want you want? I say NO! WE MUST EXIT THE W.H.O.
