Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission


11 December, 2023


I am writing this as a concerned citizen at the amount of government overreach that happened because of the Covid-19
Response.

I am a teacher aide who has                                                   predominately in the special education
department. I decided not to get vaccinated and was stood down for this reason. There are many reasons why I chose not to
get vaccinated, my health being one of them. Of course, because of the rules under AHPRA, no doctor was allowed to write
out doctor certificates to grant an exemption unless in extreme conditions so that was not an option for me. I asked the
doctor for information to prove their safety but was told to trust him as he walked around looking like a quack during the
plague era!

Having                          the AIDS pandemic, I was seeing similar patterns, such as scare tactics in the messaging for
covid which left me doubtful of the information being delivered. Initially, I did not realise it was the same person involved, ie
Anthony Fauci. I researched all the information coming out at the time and I did not believe there was sufficient evidence to
risk my health with 'experimental vaccines'. The figures did not support the information that was being spread by our leaders
which was contradictory eg, Astra Zeneca is safe, then it's not; we only need one vaccination, now two, now three. What are
we up to 61. Masks were not necessary and then we had to wear them everywhere! Even in a car when we were by ourselves
Like AIDS, it appeared to be a campaign based on fear not facts. There also seemed to be 'follow the money' type scenario
going go.

As a teacher aide, during 'alpha' and 'delta', the more deadly versions of the virus, we were put in classes to supervise
students during lockdowns. However, when the omicron version came out, even though everyone was saying it was a weaker
virus, suddenly I was no longer able to enter the workplace! I was a risk to society and was going to kill everyone. Well guess
what? I still have not had covid! Nor have I infected anyone.

Early in the pandemic, there was a figure on either the FDA or TGA site predicting the chances of myocarditis and pericarditis
after Pfizer vaccination was 1 in 80,000 after the first dose then 1 in 69000 after the second dose. This was quickly taken
down. These figures compared to the likelihood of death by covid seemed too risky. I have never known so many young,
healthy people with heart issues as I do now. It is not normal for young men to drop dead after sporting activities. Elite
athletes have regular health checks. They were also made to get the vaccine so they could continue to play, could this be a
link? Throughout the world, figures are indicating there are excessive deaths. Australia is no different. See Excess mortality:
Deaths from all causes compared to average over previous years (ourworldindata.org). In fact, Australia's figures are
consistent with other heavily vaccinated countries. Why are we not interested in finding the answers? The biggest peak on
this graph is one month after the government insisted we all needed to be vaccinated!

On January 10,2022, Albert Bourla, CEO Pfizer stated: "We know that the two doses of the vaccine offer very limited
protection, if any." https://www.bbc.com/news/59994912

On October 12, 2022, a Pfizer executive admitted the vaccinations that were not tested for transmission despite our
government telling us we needed to get the vax to save our grandparents and the ones we love. We now know that this was
not tested for transmission https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mnxlxzxoZxO . In Queensland, who up until 17 December
2021, had only 7 deaths until we had a 95% vaccination rate. Suddenly we were inundated with hospitalisations and covid
deaths. Just out of interest, if the vaccines were so safe and effective why were there so many covid cases and deaths in 2022
after everyone was vaccinated and why is this not being investigated?

Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as
personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging)
It is now evident that the media has played a big role in the messaging of covid. It is the media's job to be neutral and
independent. They are paid to investigate and report, not re-tell a narrative. Social media classified true information as
misinformation and was actively censored https://www.theaustralian.com.au/commentary/twitter-files-reveal-extent-of-
australian-governments-online-covid-censorship/video/d4f88176f380145ce80cf9315bd00140 If there is nothing to hide, why
are we continuing to censor? YouTube still actively fines and shuts down sites of people not following the covid rules.

There are many issues where the government over-reached in their assessment and management of the Covid pandemic
including continually extending the state of emergencies. Here are some examples:
•   Masks. Researching masks and you will note that the N95 are the most effective masks. However, the virus is smaller
    than the holes in the mask and can enter/exit them. Unfortunately, they are very expensive, and they should be regularly
    replaced. All other masks are ineffective especially cloth ones. Masks were not changed enough, dirty, and far more
    harmful than effective. They made you feel sick and dizzy. Most importantly, they didn't fit properly further reducing
    their usefulness. They also stop people from reading facial expressions and therefore interfere with effective
    communication particularly among our school age children especially ones with disabilities.
•   Restrictions on the unvaccinated. I was unable to socialise with other people in restaurants or other places such as hotel
    accommodation, sporting or entertainment events, etc. This applied for four months. However, I could eat at a busy food
    court where people are walking by touching you rather seated nicely in a quiet restaurant. There seemed to be more of
    an effort to punish than to protect.
•   Loss of income. What government that cares about its people creates a 'No jab, No job' policy? Since when do our
    leaders not want us to work? Why do they not care about our children's education, our public health system? This
    reduces the amount of tax collected too! I was unable to work for six months leaving me depressed and unable to
    contribute effectively to our household. Schools were left understaffed, and the students education suffered. Staff were
    being sent home because they had contact with someone who had covid, yet they had all been vaccinated. Within about
    3 months, the level of immunity with our vaxxed teachers was no better than mine but they weren't required to get
    another vaccination and I was still not allowed to work. Classes were being supervised by teacher aides and amalgamated
    due to lack of staffing. The figures about how many were stood down were lied about by the government. Teachers have
    left the profession and despite the media stating other reasons, mandates contributed to this. Some teachers left (not
    included in suspension figures) so they did not fall under all the rules and stress the government applied to us while being
    suspended. All social/community services were treated the same. In particular, the Health Department has been left in
    shambles with ambulance ramping and people dying unnecessarily. We pay for Medicare out of our taxes and as such
    doctors and hospitals should be available to all when they need it. Mandates for Health have only recently been dropped
    when our Health system is in such a mess! Yet there was no problem making them work through the first two versions of
    the virus when it was more deadly. If I wanted to see a doctor, good luck. Wait in the car park! How is that acceptable? I
    didn't get any rebates for not having access to proper health care!
•   Lockdowns. They have created so many social problems. Many have suffered mental health issues including suicide,
    depression, domestic violence, increase in drug and alcohol intake, etc. Students were denied proper education - a
    violation of their human rights. It is also clear that lockdowns did not prevent the spread of the virus. People needed to
    be out in the fresh air not locked up in their homes.
•   Quarantine centres. A necessary evil. It was clear that people travelling into the country were more likely to have covid
    and needed to be isolated. However, some of the quarantine centres were unsatisfactory with people being kept like
    prisoners and not having access to fresh air. These were government requirements and as such, should have been paid for
    by the government. Interstate restrictions were ridiculous and unnecessary. They violated people's rights to get home
    and be with their families. We are one Australia.
•   The elderly. Despite telling everyone to get vaccinated to save the elderly, we cut them off from society locking them
    indoors like prisoners and not letting anyone see them, leaving them lonely and depressed. Covid entered the centres,
    and they were left to die within them.

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory governments,
national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian
Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.
Here are some points that I believe need to be addressed:

•   Media outlets who are funded by advertisers like Pfizer should be required to provide proper disclosure about its
    interests. They should not be able to get tax cuts by the government to withhold information from the public and need to
    be transparent, https://www.infrastructure.gov.au/relief-australian-media-during-covid-19-frequently-asked-questions A
    journalist should never be censored from reporting the truth.
•   The TGA should be managed by an independent body. It should not be able to be influenced by others. They should be
    required to do their own testing and not rely on other countries' data to make decisions. Anyone who works with a
    government department such as TGA or Health, should not be able to accept a job with a pharmaceutical company within
    two years of working for the government or any other industry where there could be a conflict of interest. As you
    reseairimT^osition^^abineUministei^n^hein^lationship^vitl^ifferaT^i^anisation^nvolve^witimT^andemic
    (el|
                                               there are far too many with a conflict of interest and this should not be allowed.
    This includes who they have shares with.
•   Why are the adverse reactions not being investigated? What happened to all the flu cases? Why were the figures on the
    TGA not being updated? At one stage they were months behind. As of 29 October 2023 there are over 250000+ adverse
    reactions recording on the TGA. Most say that it is underreported. From experience I know of several people who have
    had reactions and have not recorded it. I also know of people who have died, and it is not recorded. The TGA is our data
    on health. The figures need to be accurate and subject to scrutiny.
•   Under no circumstances should we be signing our rights to WHO to control us under a pandemic. I think it is clear now
    that they have lied and misled the public throughout the pandemic. THEY WERE WRONG about many of the decisions
    they made and how they managed the pandemic. The calculation of many of the deaths in the Western world have been
    exaggerated. All deaths should be recorded as the actual cause of death. If the vaccination killed them, if you died of
    cancer, diabetes or some other disease, it should state that. WHO had a policy that if a people had covid and died within
    60 days (was available on the WHO website for anyone to see) then that went down as a covid death, NSW later reduced
    it to 14 days. There were incidents that people died of totally different incidents such as a car accident and this would be
    recorded as a covid death. This is inflating figures and should be stopped.
•   Under no circumstances, should governments be able to make vaccinations be mandatory for all. We are all aware of our
    own medical issues and what is best for us. Doctors need to have informed consent. Given they didn't stop transmission,
    what were we getting them for? We weren't killing our elderly by not being vaccinated. This was just a scare tactic used to
    force people to vaccinate including restricting our movements if we weren't. The only reason we got vaccinated was to
    possibly protect ourselves and make money for BigRharma I There isn't even enough evidence to prove they stop you
    being hospitalised or dying. This is evident as people are still dying despite having several vaccines. We certainly should
    not have been threatened with our jobs.
•   There were a ridiculous number of vaccines purchased. More than 10 per person in Australia. Why? Why did we need
    this financial burden?
•   Pregnant women and the young (6 mths to 20 years) should never have been mandated to get the vaccine. Babies and
    the young were never in a high-risk category. The risk of an adverse vaccine reaction is higher than their risk of death
    from covid. Pregnant women have always been told to be careful of the drugs they take while pregnant. How many
    miscarriages, fertility issues and babies lost because of these decisions. It will take years to realise the implications of this.
    There just has not been enough testing.
•   Why was it acceptable to create hate between the vaccinated and unvaccinated? Isn't that discrimination and hate
    speech? Heard plenty of comments that the unvaccinated deserved to die.
•   Why are we still encouraging everyone to be vaccinated? The vaccine is for a version XBB which is no longer even
    circulating in society. Our best defence is our immune systems.

Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).
Financial support for individuals was only required because of the decision to lockdown the community. Had this have not
happened, companies would not have gone bust and people could have continued to work. It also encouraged many to not
work and companies to do some 'dicey' things with the payments. We would not be going through the hardships that these
decisions created. Making all family members/close contacts isolate created extra strain on the community. What constitutes
you being sick should only ever be if you are symptomatic. PCR tests and RAT's results should not have been used and
created a problem that did not exist. Too many people had unnecessary days off resulting in financial strain on individuals
and companies.

In conclusion
Viruses always weakened, usually within three years. There is no benefit to them killing their hosts, so they quickly mutate.
With each version, this virus was working on a similar pattern to previous viruses. To combat these viruses' conventional
methods were ignored. Misleading information was spread about existing drugs - which are now approved for use - such as
ivermectin (a reliable medicine used for many years) being a horse steroid to stop doctors using it and belittle people who
suggested it as a viable medicine. We weren't encouraged to boost our immune systems and the benefits of vitamins such as
vitamin C, D, zinc, etc., fresh air. We are allowed to get sick; we don't need medicines for everything. Our bodies are
marvellous. They can identify and fight foreign bacteria and viruses if we just let it do its job. Medicine has a role to play but
it's not the only solution.

The decisions made by our health professionals, the media and governments have left a lack of trust in the community with
many people. This is not a sign of an effective government. Our governments work for its constituents not WHO and
globalist companies around the world. Many of our rights, policies and laws were violated during the pandemic and that is
not okay. We will never know what will have happened if it was managed differently, but we can certainly learn from the
mistakes made during this one. I hope a serious investigation is held to ensure this fiasco never happens again.
