Introduction

I was excited to see Australia announce the creation of a Centre for Disease Control. COVID-19
made it clear that Australia needs an institution of this kind. I’m also glad that Australia has
commissioned this Inquiry, including to inform the priorities of the CDC.

There’s a long-standing public health adage that “prevention is better than a cure”. The same
logic applies to pandemics. Pike et al in “The Origin and Prevention of Pandemics” show that
the “wait-and-respond approach is not sufficient and that the development of systems to prevent
pandemics before they are established should be considered imperative to human health.”
Given the huge human and economic costs of pandemics - and that pandemics worse than
COVID-19 are possible - prevention should be our top priority.

I think this insight should be foundational to the direction of this Inquiry.

I know that each Australian jurisdiction invests heavily in hazard reduction for other natural
disasters and are increasing their efforts because of climate change. But I’m not aware of any
similar investment in reducing the likelihood of pandemics, even though the risk to the average
Australian seems much higher.

My submission focuses on a select few issues, but my overall view is that pandemic prevention
should be a key priority of the CDC and that our institutions and leaders should never concede
that pandemics are inevitable.

Engineered Pandemics

Nature can produce pathogens that are extremely infectious like measles, with an estimated RO
of 15-20. Nature can also produce pathogens that are extremely fatal like rabies, which has an
almost 100% death rate. Nature, however, is not known to produce pathogens that have both
high transmissibility and high mortality.

Humans, driven by various motivations, could be on the verge of creating pathogens with both
these features - risking pandemics much worse than COVID-19. The convergence of open
science leading to the publication of dangerous knowledge, democratisation of synthetic
biology, and Al-assisted research might mean that a small group of nefarious actors could
cause catastrophic harm.




Preventing the next pandemic requires making sure that highly skilled bad actors never have
the capability to engineer a novel pathogen. However, a variety of trends are making this a
realistic possibility. Open science norms - while typically essential to modern science -
sometimes allow the publication of dangerous material. While the scientists who published the
genomic sequences of the smallpox virus perhaps didn’t foresee a future where the synthesised
DNA was readily available, that information cannot be “unpublished”. I recommend that the
inquiry read “Information Hazards in Biotechnology” (2018) by Lewis et al for a deeper
understanding of this risk and more examples, including Mousepox and Botulinum toxin H.

Similarly, Al models are on the cusp of being able to provide substantial assistance to people
doing research and filling tacit knowledge gaps. Again, if action is not taken and models with
these capabilities become widely available, we may not be able to “unpublish” them. Dario
Amodei, CEO of Anthropic, informed the US Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy,
Technology and the Law that “a straightforward extrapolation of today’s systems to those we
expect to see in 2 to 3 years suggests a substantial risk that Al systems will be able to fill in all
the missing pieces, enabling many more actors to carry out large-scale biological attacks”, and
the Committee Chair, Senator Blumenthal, stated “It may be shorter because the kinds of pace
of development is not only stunningly fast, it is also accelerated at a stunning pace”.^ ]

Overall, I think the Inquiry should task the new CDC with responsibility for tracking the risk that
a bad actor could create a pathogen with pandemic potential, and ensuring that safeguards
remain one step ahead of that risk.

Biological Laboratory Safety Standards

Public commentary has focused on the possible origins of COVID-19, including whether it was a
“lab leak”. Regardless of the true origin of COVID-19 specifically, I’ve been shocked to learn
about the high rate of safety incidents at labs handling dangerous pathogens. A publication by
Manheim and Lewis found that from 1975-2016 there were 71 reported high-risk human-caused
pathogen exposure events - as well as evidence of underreporting.[2] An anonymous survey
on biosecurity and accidents in Belgium reported almost 100 laboratory-acquired infections in a
5 year study period.[3]

Gopal et al in “Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics” use a range of tools to
estimate the likelihood of different future pandemic scenarios. In their estimates of ‘worst case’
pandemics, they conclude that dangerous pathogens leaking from labs are currently the most
likely cause. This isn’t surprising, given that the original SARS virus escaped from labs on at
least 3 occasions in the early 2000s and the 1977 flu pandemic was caused by a lab leak. This
issue addresses many of the Inquiry’s terms of reference, including the role of the
Commonwealth as a regulator in this space.

One of the factors Gopal et al consider in estimating the likelihood of a pandemic emerging from
a lab leak is the annual accidental infection rates of laboratories. Using data from a report by the
Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation, labs registered with the Federal Select Agent
Program have accidental infections at a rate of 0.246% per laboratory per year and NIH-funded
BSL-3 and BSL-4 laboratories have accidental infections at a rate of 1.6% per laboratory per
year.

While both of these figures seem alarmingly high, Gopal et al argue that the fact that the more
tightly regulated Select Agent laboratories exhibited a 6.5-fold lower accidental infection rate
strongly suggests that tighter regulations and more regular inspections improve safety.

Given pandemics can cost millions of lives and trillions of dollars, it seems clear that safety
standards (or adherence to standards) fall far short of what is appropriate. While I’m firmly in
favour of science, and think that science is a force for good in fighting pandemics, it has to be
done responsibly.

As an outsider, there is little transparency about how physical containment facilities in Australia
are regulated. The Office of the Gene Technology Regulator seems to focus mostly on GMOs
and provides little information about its functions regarding physical containment facilities.

To the extent that information is available, OGTR’s 2022-23 annual report is proud that it
certified a record 132 physical containment facilities last year, meaning that there are now 1,874
“high-level” facilities operating in Australia. However it also reports that it only conducted 49
inspections in the same period, and previous annual reports show that it has only conducted a
single inspection of a PC4 facility in the last 3 reporting years combined.

In addition to seeming shortcomings in oversight, the guidelines themselves are troubling. The
rules for PC4 facilities were last updated in 2007 and refer to standards like AS1324.1 on air
filters and AS/NZS 2243.3 on lab safety, which don’t appear to have been updated since 2001
and 2002 respectively. AS1324.1 specifically has been criticised by the HVAC industry for being
based on inaccurate research from the 1950s and has now been superseded by ISO 16890.

While this is a concerning situation on multiple fronts, it’s not necessarily a criticism of OGTR.
OGTR only has 51 employees and has wide-ranging regulatory functions apart from these
topics.

Overall, this snapshot paints a grim picture of the state of regulation in Australia, and one that I
think falls far short of public expectations about how seriously these issues would be taken.
Before reading into this, I would have guessed that PC4 facilities comply with cutting-edge
global standards that account for emerging technology, and would each be inspected several
times per year.

I think that this Inquiry should recommend a thorough review of biosafety - including the
suitability of requirements, degree of adherence, and adequacy of oversight - for all research
that involves human or animal pathogens. The review should include a risk assessment that
takes into account the potentially catastrophic global consequences of errors, and ensures that
our approach to mitigation is proportionate to that risk.

Conclusion

I think pandemics are one of the most important issues of our time, and expert assessments
that the risk of pandemics is increasing are alarming. I think this inquiry should carefully
consider how future pandemics could start and ensure it makes specific recommendations to
reduce their likelihood. This should include the known mechanisms that have been with humans
since time immemorial, such as zoonoses, as well as more recent risks, such as lab leaks, and
emerging threats, such as engineered pathogens.

[ 1 ]https://medium.eom/@daniel eth/ai-x-risk-at-senate-hearinq-7104f371ca0b
[21https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.qov/35903214/
[31https://www.biosafety.be/sites/default/files/2 15 willemarck lai report belqium 20 7 2 12 f
inal.pdf
