     Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission
                                                                           Friday 15 December 2023



Governance
I used to think that I was an Australian, however due to the actions taken by the states I came to
the conclusion that wether I wanted to be or not that I was a Queenslander. It seems that I had
another queen (the premier) armed with the power invested by the advise of the chief health
officer.

I also watched as all of the other states respective premiers ruled their respective citizens all for
the greater good according to their health advisors. The federal government seemed unrelated to
the decisions of the states.

My family has fought literally for our freedom, which was easily taken away without independent
evidence or public debate.

I followed the challenges based on our Australian Constitution through the court and my trust in
the judicial system to watch over the political system has been shattered.

Our local representatives had no extra information other than what was delivered via the daily
reports from the premier and health minister.

Key health response measures
Do not make policies without the proper studies.

Where are our studies? There was plenty of time over the last four years to do a proper
randomised ‘mask effectiveness’ study in Australia, there was also plenty of time to do a Mrna
effectiveness study here in Australia.
Pubic health messaging seemed very one sided which was confirmed by our government shutting
down critics online and using law enforcement against dissenters.

I signed many petitions asking for evidence that would back up policy decisions along with
thousands of other Australians and the responses from our officials seemed to show little care for
the concerns raised.
Australians should be left to make informed decisions about their health with their doctor, not with
the health advice from politicians.

Next time randomised double blind trial studies from researchers independent of the financial
reach of the companies who stand to make a profit should be conducted and in my opinion be
made public and opened up for public debate.

Support for Industry and business
Do not shut down our country again.

Lockdown support
Do not lock down our country again.
