                                                                                Your trusted partner In diabetes care



Submission to the Australian Governments COVID-19 Response Inquiry
The Australian Diabetes Educators Association (ADEA) is the peak body representing Credentialled
Diabetes Educators (CDEs), the experts in diabetes education and care. ADEA represents more than
2500 members practicing in Australia. The mission of ADEA is to support, promote, and empower its
members; and to lead and advocate for best-practice, person-centred diabetes education and care.


Governance
Support, Recognition, and Engagement with CDEs as Allied Health
Diabetes health professionals have provided mostly positive feedback about health organisations'
and governments' COVID-19 interventions regarding diabetes care (Andrikopoulos & Johnson, 2020).
However, there were some concerns and feedback raised about the federal government improving
its support and engagement with the CDE workforce post-pandemic and during future health crises.
It is essential that the CDE workforce has adequate support, as the growing diabetes epidemic is
stretching the current diabetes workforce. Almost 1.9 million Australians are living with diabetes
(Diabetes Australia, 2023). Strong government support of diabetes education and care during the
pandemic was crucial, as people living with the condition are at high risk of COVID-19 infection (Hill,
Mantzoros, & Sowers, 2020) and higher risk of further medical complications and death (Drucker,
2020) (Sacks, Pham, Fleming, Neoh, & Ekinci, 2020).

A key concern for ADEA during the pandemic response was the lack of clarity and recognition of CDEs
as allied health. Because there is not one definition or list of allied health practitioners, even though
CDEs are listed as allied health for the purposes of Medicare and the Department of Veterans Affairs,
CDEs were initially left off many of the health practitioner responses as they were not included in
initial lists. During state and territory border closures, this resulted in CDEs being unable to cross
borders to care for people living with diabetes, resulting in delays in treatment until this was
resolved. It is essential that CDEs be recognised as a single profession and that this be uniform across
Commonwealth departments and state government departments. More is needed in relation to
recognition of and engagement with CDEs by governments and their governance
mechanisms/advisory bodies when responding to health crises. For future crises, this would help the
allocation of resources and minimise the risk of overburdening the nation's healthcare system as
people living with diabetes could be cared for by their CDEs rather than resort to emergency hospital
presentations when the hospital system may already be overburdened.


Key Health Response Measures
Supply of PRE for Allied Health Workers
ADEA appreciated the Department of Health making allied health eligible early (August 2020) to
access surgical masks supplied by the National Medical Stockpile and distributed through PHNs.
However, subsequent delays in the supply and delivery of the masks resulted in difficulties and
confusion for some CDEs working in higher-risk clinical areas and with higher-risk vulnerable


                                                                                       PO Box 163, Woden ACT 2606
                                                                                                 admin@adea.com.au
                                                                                                      02 6173 1000
                                                                                                ABN 65 008 656 522
                                                                              Your trusted partner In diabetes care



patients. CDEs who worked in areas where there may be community transmission of COVID-19 were
also impacted. Based on ADEA's observations and members' feedback, ADEA believes the recognition
and engagement matters as described in the governance section contributed to the delays and
difficulties for CDEs. The difficulties included CDEs requiring more than other allied health workers to
prove their eligibility as allied health workers to obtain the masks. ADEA believes the
recommendation in the governance section also applies here.

Telehealth Services for Diabetes Care
While the usual diabetes care was reduced as health resources were diverted to the pandemic,
government subsidies provided new and expanded outpatient and private-sector diabetes services
via telehealth/telephone (Andrikopoulos & Johnson, 2020). For the first time, MBS item numbers for
telephone consultations were available to more allied health professionals, including CDEs, to help
people in isolation to reduce exposure to essential health workers. Telehealth has contributed to
greater access to diabetes care and management by CDEs, especially in rural and remote areas.
Telehealth services contributed to addressing the coalesced impacts of COVID-19 on people living
with diabetes, specifically in relation to blood glucose management, initiation, and support of
diabetes technology, managing diabetes-related complications and medication use.


Broader Health Support
Stockpiling and Shortages of Diabetes Products
In March 2020, ADEA and its diabetes health partners issued a joint statement to people living with
diabetes about access to medicines and products due to stockpiling and local shortages in some
pharmacies. Due to the spike in demand, the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and the Pharmaceutical
Society of Australia, in consultation with the Health Department, in April 2020 agreed on new
requirements for community pharmacists to enforce new limits on medicines to address excessive
purchasing (The Pharmacy Guild of Australia, 2020). Insulin was one of the medicines that had been
limited to one-month supply, which had confused some people. ADEA advocated that people living
with diabetes should continue to receive their full insulin prescription regardless of whether this lasts
them one month or more. In addition, people with diabetes were encouraged not to stockpile insulin
or other diabetes products and medicines to help ensure that all people who needed insulin were
able to obtain it. ADEA recommends that in future health crises, the government work closely with
the diabetes organisations to ensure appropriate communication about shortages of diabetes
medications and supplies. Further, the government should continue to improve its work to minimise
the risk of medication shortages for people living with diabetes.

HbAlc Testing and Non-COVID-19 Health Matters
Research by the Continuity of Care Collaboration (CCC), which ADEA is a member of, found that
during the pandemic, consumer engagement with healthcare services for non-COVID-19 health
issues dropped significantly (Continuity of Care Collaboration, 2020). Specifically, 52% of respondents
said they had delayed or avoided a medical appointment in February-May 2020. The most common
service missed was GP followed by allied health practitioner and pathology test. This was particularly


                                                                                     PO Box 163, Woden ACT 2606
                                                                                               admin@adea.com.au
                                                                                                    02 6173 1000
                                                                                              ABN 65 008 656 522
                                                                              Your trusted partner In diabetes care



alarming, because a reduction in HbAlc testing can lead to delays in diabetes diagnosis, and the
sooner diabetes is diagnosed and managed the bigger the reduction in diabetes-related
complications. ADEA surveyed its members earlier this year about HbAlc testing. Results in August
showed 70% of respondents said they noticed a reduction in testing for their clients after the
pandemic. This was attributed to difficulty getting an appointment with a GP, costs of GP
appointments and pathology tests, people living with diabetes relying on their glucose management
indicator from their CGM data (which is not a reliable indicator of HbAlc), and aversion to sitting in a
pathology testing clinic. ADEA recommends that the Health Department increase its collaboration
with ADEA, and other industry bodies to address the reasons for the reduced HbAlc testing and
encourage increased access to prevention and diagnostic services.

Mental Health and Diabetes Care
The pandemic compounded mental health matters among people living with diabetes exacerbating
diabetes distress and other mental health concerns. (Singhai, Swami, Nebhinani, Rastogi, & Jude,
2020). In addition, the prevalence of depression and anxiety symptoms among people living with
diabetes was found to be about 2 to 4 times greater than in the general population (Alessi, et al.,
2020). ADEA recommends that people living with diabetes be considered for additional mental
health visits as part of their mental health plans to provide a better foundation so that if/when a
future pandemic or other crisis arises, they have appropriate support leading into it. Additionally, the
government should also prioritise mental health support during a pandemic, especially for people
with chronic health conditions, such as diabetes.

New Diabetes Diagnoses during COVID-19
Changes were required for managing and educating people newly diagnosed with diabetes and their
families during the pandemic. Children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes, particularly those with
diabetic ketoacidosis and fever, were often treated as having COVID-19 until tests returned negative
results (Andrikopoulos & Johnson, 2020). ADEA recommends prioritising CDEs as part of essential
health teams during future crises to support people newly diagnosed with diabetes and other health
professionals with limited background in diabetes education and care.

COVIDSafe App
In diabetes care, there were some reports that the COVIDSafe app may have interfered with some
diabetes apps and devices (Andrikopoulos & Johnson, 2020). ADEA recommends that future software
development of this nature provides a platform for thorough community and user feedback and/or
thorough investigation and testing in relation to other medical devices.




                                                                                     PO Box 163, Woden ACT 2606
                                                                                               admin@adea.com.au
                                                                                                    02 6173 1000
                                                                                              ABN 65 008 656 522
                                                                                     Your trusted partner In diabetes care



References
Alessi, J., Berger de Oliveira, G., Franco, D. W., Brino do Amaral, B., Becker, A. S., Knijnik, C. P., . . . Telo,
         G. H. (2020). Mental health in the era of COVID-19: prevalence of psychiatric disorders in a
         cohort of patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes during the social distancing. Diabetology
         and Metabolic Syndrome.

Andrikopoulos, S., & Johnson, G. (2020). The Australian response to the COVID-19 pandemic and
         diabetes — lessons learned. Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice.

Bornstein, S., Rubino, F., Khunti, K., Mingrone, G., Hopkins, D., Birkenfeld, A.,. . . Ludwig, B. (2020).
         Practical recommendations for the management of diabetes in patients with COVID-19.
         Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol, 546-50.

Continuity of Care Collaboration. (2020). Continuity of Care Collaboration Consumer Survey Results.
         Fonte: Allied Health Professions Australia: https://ahpa.com.au/wp-
         content/uploads/2020/09/Continuity-of-Care-Collabo ration-Consumer-Survey-Results, pdf

Diabetes Australia. (2023). Diabetes in Australia. Fonte: Diabetes Australia:
         https://www.diabetesaustralia.com.au/about-diabetes/diabetes-in-australia/

Drucker, D. (2020). Coronavirus infections and type 2 diabetes-shared pathways with therapeutic
         implications. Endocr Rev, 41.

Hill, M., Mantzoros, C., & Sowers, J. (2020). Commentary: COVID-19 in patients with diabetes.
         Metabolism Clinical and Experimental.

Sacks, L., Pham, C., Fleming, N., Neoh, S., & Ekinci, E. (2020). Considerations for people with diabetes
         during the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic. Diabetes Research and Clinical
         Practice.

Singhai, K., Swami, M., Nebhinani, N., Rastogi, A., & Jude, E. (2020). Psychological adaptive difficulties
         and their management during COVID-19 pandemic in people with diabetes mellitus. Diabetes
         and Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research and Reviews, 1603-1605.

The Pharmacy Guild of Australia. (19 de March de 2020). Limits on dispensing and sales of
         prescription and over-the-counter medicines. Fonte: The Pharmacy Guild of Australia:
         https://www.guild.org.au/news-events/news/2020/limits-on-dispensing-and-sales-of-
         prescription-and-over-the-counter-medicines




                                                                                            PO Box 163, Woden ACT 2606
                                                                                                      admin@adea.com.au
                                                                                                           02 6173 1000
                                                                                                     ABN 65 008 656 522
