I was born in           and this coming January that will be              years ago. I have
a Ph.D. in   social sciences from the                          and have taught sociology in
universities in three different countries (Scotland, Holland and Australia). I wrote various
books on the subject.


I was inspired to make this submission because of the plight of someone near and dear to
me but I realise that about one thousand other unvaccinated health workers in NSW are
in a similar position, they were either sacked or resigned (Sydney Morning Herald 15
January 2022).

The main point I want to make is this: ^^Hdeclared right from the start that it hadn’t

tested its vaccine for transmission (see here under). In other words it was already at that
stage quite unknown        whether unvaccinated people would pose a higher risk for
transmission than the vaccinated ones. Yet health workers were obliged to be inoculated
with a vaccine that was based on a novel technique, had not been properly tested and
had only emergency authorisation, or lose their jobs.


Over time it has become increasingly clear that the vaccinated and unvaccinated pose a
similar risk for transmission. Yet the NSW governnent persists in imposing the mandate,
contrary to the public perception that has been created by several newspaper articles.
Some     other states have stopped doing so quite a few months ago (West Australia,
Tasmania, ACT), and some countries never imposed it at all (inter alia the country of my
birth,


I wish to present here under a time line of main testimony in support of my contention:


# 1. Already in the British Medical Journal of the 21st October 2020, now more than three
years ago, the^^B* representative was quoted as saying:


“Our trial will not demonstrate prevention of transmission,said, “because in
order to do that you have to swab people twice a week for very long periods, and
that becomes operationally untenable.”(emphasis added).
(1.^^^^^^ Will covid-19 vaccines save lives? Current trials aren’t designed to tell us,
BMJ 2020; 371 doi: httDs://doi.orq/10.1136/bmi.m4037 21 October 2020)


#2. “Indeed, there is growing evidence that peak viral titres in the upper airways of the
lungs and culturable virus are similar in vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals....A
recent investigation by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of an outbreak
of COVID-19 in a prison in Texas showed the equal presence of infectious virus in the
nasopharynx of vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.

Similarly, researchers in California observed no major differences between vaccinated and
unvaccinated individuals in terms of SARS-CoV-2 viral loads in the nasopharynx, even in
thos^wittwraver^svmDtomati^nfection”
(1                                        Increases in COVID-19 are unrelated to levels of
vaccination across 68 countries and 2947 counties in the United States, European
Journal of Epidemiology (2021))


#3. “ the impact of vaccination on community transmission of circulating variants of
SARS-CoV-2 appeared to be not significantly different from the impact among
unvaccinated people (and that) this requires a reassessment of compulsory vaccination
policies leading to the job dismissal of unvaccinated HCW... ”


                              Transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2 among fully vaccinated
individuals” The Lancet
January, 2022 :httDs://doi.orq/10.1016/S147^3099621 )00768-4)


#4. “NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet has called for the end of broad COVID-19 vaccine
mandates in his state, saying the jab has no effect on transmission.

"There is no evidence that vaccines in the current environment have any impact at all on
transmission of COVID. I could not be clerer," Mr Perrottet told Sydney radio 2GB on
Monday.” (Canberra Times, 27th February 2023)
