COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID -19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION

It is difficult to take seriously a commonwealth inquiry which, in the first instance excludes
unilateral actions by the states that constitute the Commonwealth, and has now allowed a
submission period of a paltry one week, without advanced notice, immediately prior to the
Christmas/New Year period.
The commonwealth Government obviously doesn'ttake the inquiry and public input into it,
seriously.

From March 2020 'The Covid Era" up to the present day, although some mandates are still in
place, has seen governments assuming enormous powers nevergiven to them bythe people,
making life altering decisions forthe entire population based on sparse information, and the
use of violence and coercion against those who questioned either the legitimacy of efficacy of
the measures taken.

Unless the governments and people of Australia learn critical lessons from this era fast, then
this era will be rightly viewed as the moment when the idea that Australia is a 'free country
based on the rule of the law with the respect for human rights' is laid to rest forthe last time.
Each of these need to be thoroughly examined, accountability forthose that are responsible,
and lessons learned forthe future.


I abore atthe government's wasteful spending on hundreds of millions of doses ofvaccines,
over half of which were binned That are neither SAFE or EFFECTIVE as the evidence now
shows.


To date, the Federal Government has spent at least $18 billion on Covid vaccines and
treatments. That's around $1200 transferred from the pocket of every tax-paying Australian
(assuming 15 million taxpayers, based on recent stats), straight into Big Pharma's coffers.


There is the shameful treatment of the vaccine injured, most of whom can't even get basic
compensation from the extremely narrow Federal scheme.


There is also the matter serious regulatory failures bythe Therapeutic Goods Administration,
including hiding reported child deaths so as to manipulate public opinion on the vaccination
program.
And of course, who could forget former Prime Minister Scomo secretly appointing himself to
five different ministries and trying to keep the minutes of national cabinet meetings top secret.

We need and want a Royal Commission and nothing else!
