                             COUNCIL OF CAPITAL CITY LORD MAYORS




Submission: COVID-19
Response Inquiry
FEBRUARY 23, 2024




                    CITIES



                MATTER
Introduction
The Council of Capital City Lord Mayors (CCCLM) is comprised of the Lord Mayors of Adelaide,
Brisbane, Darwin, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth, and Sydney, and the ACT Chief Minister. We are pleased
to provide the following submission to the COVID-19 Inquiry.

The COVID-19 pandemic caused devastating social and economic impacts in Australia's cities,
highlighting the vulnerabilities of our central business and entertainment districts. Cities were (and
continue to be) disproportionately impacted byongoing cessation of activity by the reduction of city
workforces, and the gradual return of international and domestic tourism and international
students.


Capital cities and the mpact of COVID-19
Strong city economies are crucial to a strong national economy. Our cities are where many of
Australia's future jobs are created, and investments are made. Jobs in health, education, advanced
manufacturing and professional service sectors are growing in our cities.

During the last decade capital cities grew by 2.9 million people - representing 77% of Australia's total
population growth. This is expected to grow to 14 million people by 2066.

Prior to the pandemic, Australia's capital cities1 accounted for:

•   69% of Australian GDP, and 69% of Australian businesses.
•   15% of Australian GDP is generated in our four biggest CBDs of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
    and Perth - more than any single industry.

Beyond their role as key concentrations of employment and economic activity, CBDs play critical
roles in our tourism, education and entertainment sectors.

The nation has invested significantly in its capital city CBDs - particularly during the last 30 years.
This has included investment in roads, public transport, retail facilities, office space and experiential
opportunities.

Economic impact
As recently highlighted by the Property Council's Capital City Office Occupancy2, recovery is showing
positive signs. City businesses however are still being impacted by office workers not returning to
the office.

Knowledge-workers adapted well to working from home during the pandemic, supported by new
technologies. Many organisations have continued to support a hybrid working model and provide
flexible working conditions for their staff. The benefits of hybrid working were articulated in the
Productivity Commission's research paper Working from Home3. The paper also discusses the effect


1 Sources: SGS Economics, Australian Cities Accounts 2018-19, December 2019; ABS, Counts of Australian
Businesses (Cat. No. 8165.0), 2017; ABS, Labour Force Australia, Detailed (Cat. No. 6291.0.55.001), May 2018;
ABS, Population by Age and Sex, Regions of Australia, 2017(Cat. No. 3235.0); ABS, Regional Population Growth,
Australia 2016-17 (Cat. No. 3218.0); ABS, Population Projections, Australia 2012-2061 (Cat. No. 3222.0)
2 httosV/research orooertvcouncil com au/bloe/october-office-occuoancv-results
3 Productivity Commission: Working from Home research paper - September 2021

CCCLM COVID-19 Submission - February 2024                                                         1|Page
on city CBDs, suggesting that the movement of people away from the centre of cities may reduce
the agglomeration benefits experienced by businesses in cities.

Whilst all levels of government implemented new schemes and support for businesses during the
COVID-19 pandemic, it demonstrated a lasting need for flexibility in regulations to facilitate and
support entrepreneurial behaviour of city business.

Employment
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the CCCLM commissioned reporting into the impacts of the
pandemic on city economies, and to track recovery. The City Pulse4 tracked available data pre, during
and post pandemic, measuring change to population, economy, labour force, mobility.

The Australian unemployment rate reached a peak of 7.4% July 2020, and steadily declined, in our
last report (April 2023) the rate had declined to 3.9%. However, some cities are still reporting
challenges in attracting and retaining skilled staff.

Tourism and International students
In 2019, tourism in Australia accounted for 3.1% of the national GDP, contributing $60.8 billion to
the Australian economy. Of this, 26% came from international visitors to Australia, while the
remaining 74% was contributed by domestic tourists.

In September 2021, Australians took 1.1 billion overnight trips to capital cities, spending
$854 million - a massive 74% fall in overnight trips and 76% fall in spend from the pre-pandemic
figures in September 20195

Beyond being destinations in their own rights, our CBDs are key gateways for travel to our regions,
and have higher concentrations of accommodation, entertainment and dining sectors. Our cities
are not only business destinations, but also experience destinations. Of course, the reduction in
travel and spend had direct negative consequences for city businesses and those employed in this
sector.

Research6 commissioned by the CCCLM highlighted the challenges being disproportionately
experienced by businesses in CBDs. The greatest challenges that were faced by our CBDs were (and
still are):

    •         the cumulative impact of changes to work patterns and hybrid working; and
    •         employment - staff and skills shortages due to lack of international tourists and students.

As part of our research, city businesses shared their experiences of the challenge in finding skilled
people willing to perform certain roles, at pre-COVID pay rates, traditionally filled by our migrants,
backpackers and students. In particular, the recovery of our CBD-based tourism, hospitality and
entertainment businesses were impaired by their ability to access workers.




4 CCCLM City Pulse          zj du Lof af           yXorc     /ors (July 2022 - April 2023)
5 Tourism Research Australia - National Visitor Results September 2021
6 Ingenium Research -

CCCLM COVID-19 Submission - February 2024                                                    2 | Page
As international and domestic borders started to open, and international students slowly returned
to campus, staff shortages were alleviated. The CCCLM believes that it is timely to review the
compounding impact of the casualisation of the workforce, wages and workforce training. The
COVID-19 pandemic exposed vulnerabilities for businesses and employees engaged in CBD
accommodation, entertainment and dining sector - these sectors are potentially still at risk due to
the impacts of the economy, cost of living and inflation.

While capital cities welcome the arrivals of international students, there is concern regarding
Australia's competitiveness in the ongoing attraction of international students, further impacting city
accommodation and education providers and supporting retails businesses. Ongoing economic
factors have an impact on international students and other non-visa holders that are unable to
access government financial services.

Homelessness and housing
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, most people (63%) experiencing homelessness were in capital
cities. There was also an increase in people sleeping rough in our cities, with nearly half (47%) of all
people sleeping rough in Australia being in cities.

During the pandemic, an enormous effort to house city rough sleepers was implemented, however
new forms of vulnerable community members emerged — including international students, non­
residents and temporary visa holders that were not eligible for support via JobKeeper and JobSeeker
arrangements. City councils continued their support for those housed in temporary accommodation
(some with complex needs) and supported other community members via distribution of food and
vouchers.

As cities cautiously returned to a new normal following the pandemic, Lord Mayors were concerned
that greater numbers of people would experience homelessness in our cities, due to the conclusion
of relief mechanisms (such as State rental moratoria and JobKeeper), compounded by JobSeeker
levels returning to their usual levels (albeit with a small increase).

The attached article prepared by the CCCLM and its members for Parity Magazine7 documents the
immediate response to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as ongoing measures being provided.


Conclusion
The 2021 CCCLM Chair, Lord Mayor of Brisbane,                                presented the COVID-19
pandemic's impacts on Australia's capital cities to National Cabinet on 4 June 2021. A copy of the
presentation is attached8.

We commend the initiation of this inquiry into the COVID-19 pandemic, it is vital that the responses
and impacts are recorded and experiences of those involved are well documented and builds our
preparedness for future pandemics and other disasters.

The CCCLM would be pleased to provide further comment to the inquiry if required.



                 In the heart of tl
                 CBDs - Council (

CCCLM COVID-19 Submission - February 2024                                                    3 | Page
Lord Mayor of Darwin
CCCLM Chair 2024




CCCLM COVID-19 Submission - February 2024   4|Page
