   •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and
       treatments

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) seemed to pick and choose the most wild and
frightening vaccinations to approve - such as new and untested methods of vaccination,
including MRnA, while not supporting methods of vaccination that had been safely used for
years such as protein based vaccines. Even now the one approved protein based vaccination
is not approved as a booster.

The TGA only approved imported vaccines. Why not focus on Australian made vaccines?
We left ourselves open, as a country, to financial concerns by doing so.

Although this enquiry is only about federal government decisions, it can not be denied
decisions made by the Federal Government including the TGA, impacted state government
decisions.

This decision impacted me financially in my work.




   •       Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

I personally did not feel safe to have these not fully tested vaccines. It was the federal
government's body, the TGA, that decided which vaccines we were to have. This impacted
the state government's decisions about people having to have these vaccinations in order to
be able to work. Based on this I was no longer able to come to the work place in my state
government role and had no income for many months. I understand this was a state based
decision but Blind Freddy can see the decisions are interlinked. I could not then apply for
Centerlink because I had a job, but I could not attend that job because I had not had the
federal government approved vaccinations. As an older woman, who has already spent
much of my life caring for others (ie children/parents), and therefore not getting paid, and
not getting super during those times, having more unpaid time in my life due to Covid
responses by government, has of course put me further behind male counterparts in terms
of how I will live and support myself financially in retirement. I would have course rather
worked than claim Centrelink, but I did not have that option. As I get older and^^l
             my work options are extremely limited now as I have not had the approved
vaccinations. I have had another experimental vaccination in order to support Australian
research and businesses but that will not help me financially as my work options are so
limited not due to TGA decisions.

I understand I am not the only one, but this is one person's experience.



Other
The lockdowns called by state governments also impacted me in how I could care for
The hysteria across the nation created through the responses by government also impacted
my family relationships.

I understand the Federal government doesn't see this as their responsibility but there can
be no denying federal government responses influenced state government responses.
