                                          COVID-19 Response Inquiry


•   I'm a             of, at the                                  They were passionate learners,
    connected with groups that offered a large variety of learning experiences and connection to
    other families, enthusiastic to most subjects I offered at home. Very happy, outgoing, highly self-
    motivated^^^l No mental health issues. Exciting plans for their futures.        __
    In March of 2020, the first lockdown in Victoria, my             was due to turn^lin^^H We
    were told "just 2 weeks to flatten the curve" We now know what misinformation that was. The
    longest and harshest lockdown in the world followed with a total of 262 days.
*                     birthday celebrations were abruptly cancelled, rescheduled, cancelled and
    finally she gave up on them all together. The same happened when                    turned^l
     Also cancelled, were all         outside activities, groups, and every experience of life that
    ^^■transitioning to adulthood might expect to enjoy. The result of that was absolutely
     devastating for my^^^^l and the impacts are still being felt today.
     My first indication of the breakdown of my happy family was when over the next few months, my
    ^^^^Ball confined themselves to their rooms, with the general attitude that "the government
    has stolen our futures, why should we bother with anything" Trying to teach them to learn was a
    struggle, and when they did, their input was minimal, lacking their former passion. The habit of
    self-confinement, playing online games all day, withdrawing from myself, each other and society
    was entrenched by the end of 2020.
    My^^^^^ntered^^^^^^^^^^land was doing well with her^^^^^^| Until an
    assignment where her chosen topic was the
    backlash from her peers and surprisingly, her tutors, in the units chat group was unprecedented.
    She was subjected to the most horrific abuse for using the current evidence of vaccine
    propaganda, and devastated, scrapped her very well written and referenced assignment, needing
    an extension to submit a rushed submission for                             which has had minimal
    peer reviewed studies. She dropped out at the end of that unit, although she did pass.
                     now^^^^^l in 2023, comes out of her room for short periods of time,
    maybe long enough for a family movie night or dinner. She's quite                  although she
                The rare times she leaves the house she needs days of mental preparation, and it's
    only for essentials such as new clothes for the season or a dreaded job interview etc. She exhibits
                                         is                          She's never gone out with friends
    as an adult. She passed up a work experience opportunity with the option to continue into full
    time work as a                      early 2022 due to ^^^^Hlnstead of walking into a great job
    and a bright future that was handed to her at just      she's looking for work, on Centrelink
    benefits, and not dealing well with interviews. A very different person to the extremely outgoing
               with big dreams she was before the Govt response to Covid-19.
    My now^^^^^^started                                             refusing to engage in studies for the
    most part.
    I tried to get them into therapy, but no one in my area was taking on new clients as their waiting
    lists are exceeding 12 months, and all admitted the vast increase was due to the mental health
    impacts of covid lockdowns. My^H has stopped                but wears long sleeve winter tops in
    summer, and will never wear a t-shirt again. His great love of swimming is gone. He is no longer
                       and is learning again, not as enthusiastically but it's satisfactory.
    The state and federal govts response, for a virus which we now know to have had a mortality rate
    of 0.9% (inflated?) according to WHO, NOT EVEN 1% which generally only affects the elderly and
    those with comorbidities, has devastated my previously very happy, well-functioning family unit.
•   In early 2020, senior epidemiologists from across the world called for an age/health adjusted
    response but the government ignored this advice, instead relying on flawed Covid Modelling
    from the Doherty Institute. All the while repeating the mantra "Trust the science" while showing
    a resistance to following any science and refusing to adjust the narrative as new data and peer
    reviewed studies emerged. Instead, the government entered into a program of social media
    censorship, media fear campaigns and removing any potential preventative or curative
    medications from the market, which potentially could have prevented many deaths (Now proved
    to be effective) (1)
    APHRA suspended any health professionals who spoke against the narrative, leading to a
    disconnect and lack of Dr/patient trust, and the ability for patients receive the information
    necessary to give informed consent. The suspension of the drs who did speak out ensured the
    rest of the health profession were too terrified to do their professional duty to their patients.
    Also ignored was health specialists' advice, including that of Anthony Fauci, that PRE masks were
    ineffective, but mask mandates were enforced in public and the media fear campaign that
    ensued resulted in people wearing them in their cars while driving alone. Ridiculous levels of
    fear. More concerning was seeing clearly traumatised babies and toddlers whose stressed and
    fearful parents were forcing them also to wear masks because of these mandates. The fear was
    less from the virus than from the need to virtue signal and "do the right thing for grandma".
    As a sufferer of                                       it seemed illogical, cruel, extremely selfish
    and unscientifically inappropriate, to shut down a whole nation of perfectly healthy people with
    less than a 0.1% chance of suffering hospitalisation or death to protect people like me. Most
    immune compromised or morbidly ill people are aware of the need to take precautions when
    necessary. More appropriate would have been to advise to stay at home when sick.
•   Morrison and Hunt spent $18 billion??? of taxpayers money on a yet untested vaccine, the
    manufacturers being given indemnity leading to the rollout of a vaccine not tested for safety,
    efficacy or long term side effects, with Hunt advising us all during an interview with Insiders "the
    world is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever, and we will
    have enormous amounts of data" Sadly, it seems the government was not interested in collecting
    the data effectively, and to this day seem unconcerned with the rise in sudden unexpected
    deaths. The people of Australia are not your lab rats. We deserve a full investigation.
•   Hunt made no secret that the Australian public were being experimented on, and though
    Morrison asserted repeatedly that the vaccines were not mandated, that we had a choice, the
    truth was that we would be forced to take this experimental vaccine or lose our jobs, livelihoods,
    right to education, and the responsibility for that was handed to the states. Meanwhile state
    leaders assured us that lockdowns and vaccine mandates were "in line with National Cabinet"
    while the state governments individual responses and advice were inconsistent
    Further, vaccines were passed provisionally by the TGA, due to the experimental nature of the
    mRNA and vector technology, who later admitted to Senator^^^^Jduring Senate Estimates
    that they "did no batch testing, taking ^^^Hand                word that they had followed all
    requirements" which due to pre-manufactured indemnity, "these requirements were deemed
    unnecessary" and "relied on the CDC and FDA's advice."
•    However, the manufacturers failed to apply for the appropriate license from the OGTR before
     distributing their mRNA Covid-19 vaccine products in Australia, as required by the Gene
     Technology Act 2000. A personal lawsuit filed by Victorian Dr and Pharmacist, Dr
     against^^^ and^^^^^is currently underway in the Supreme court, alleging that^^^jand
    ^^^^^|were reckless and negligent for failing to apply for the appropriate license from the
    OGTR before dealing with their mRNA Covid-19 vaccine products in Australia, amounting to a
    serious criminal offence."
•   This offence was enacted on every Australian who submitted to the coercive mandates of the
    Govt in a spirit of good faith, and the promise that 2 doses of this "safe and effective" though
    untested vaccine and they could return to "normal" life. Also, misinformation, because it has
    now emerged through FOI that Heallth.gov.au report showed similar disease risk factors in vax
    versus unvaxxed individuals, and efficacy of immunity lasts about 3 months, and the govt now
    pushing for regular boosters, because they don't work. (2) Neither have they proved to be safe.
    New, alarming peer reviewed studies have resulted in finding a new and much more dangerous
    and debilitating illness than Covid-19, now coined CRVS (Chronic Post Vaccine Syndrome) (3)
•   Health and Emergency Services saw the loss of many thousands of employees due to the vaccine
    mandates. Our health system, already stressed before the "pandemic" is still struggling to
    recover. Emergency wait times are now over 6 hours, Ambulances often taking over 30 minutes
    to attend, and tragically, people are dying before paramedics arrive.
•   The weaponizing of Police and military against the people of Australia to enforce border closures,
    curfews and unjustified assaults on peaceful protesters who stood up against the governments
    gross destruction of our human rights was criminal. This is evidenced by the withdrawal of the
    majority of the thousands of fines and charges that were unlawfully issued, before the matter
    could come before the courts. Our rights and freedoms are not yours to take. The violence
    committed by police must be addressed, and the offenders of such vile assaults must be held
    personally accountable.
•   PM Albanese promised us a ROYAL COMMISSION but instead we get this sham of an "inquiry"
    which has appointed                  the very face of the propaganda and fear campaign fed
    to us via govt and mainstream media. The bias of panel members overseeing the Inquiry and the
    exclusion of unilateral State and Territory Government decisions has shown Australians that the
    government is not interested in finding any wrongdoing and has rendered this inquiry as a
    complete farce.
•   We call for a ROYAL COMMISSION to commence immediately. This must encompass all aspects of
    the government's response and be overseen by independent professionals with no conflicts of
    interest or personal involvement in the action taken during the pandemic.
•   Any further "health emergencies" must be dealt with with reasoned and proportionate action
    while understanding the PROTECTION of individual freedoms must be upheld without
    compromise.
•   Mandates of any kind, but very specifically Vaccine mandates are never to be enforced for any
    reason. Free and fully informed consent must be given, without discrimination or financial
    coercion. Manufacturers must conduct full and intensive studies, and TGA must complete batch
    testing before any distribution. Indemnity is not to be given.
•   Vaccines must not take precedence over well-established preventative or curative medication.
•   The advice of leading health professionals must be considered and respected. Our health
    professionals must be free to speak about any concerns, and their duty of care to patients
    upheld without fear of punishment.
•   Our Police and military must never again be weaponised against the people they have sworn to
    protect.
•   Freedom of speech, or right to protest bad governance, must never be censored or punished and
    must always be respected.
    1.      https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmoa2115869
    2.      https://onlinelibrarv.wilev.com/doi/10.llll/eci.14136
•   3. https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.ll.09.23298266vl.full.pdf
