SUBMISSION

RE: Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry

To the members of the Panel:

My submission to this inquiry, providing my own personal perspective of the government's
response to C-19.

About Me

Just a random member of the public with a science background, who rejects the mainstream
covid narrative as pushed by the government and captured media, and has an alternative point
of view to offer.

Where The Government Went Wrong

Everything about the government's response to covid was wrong. They imposed totalitarian
policies such as lockdowns, border closures, involuntary detention, and vaccine mandates that
deprived people of their most fundamental human freedoms, such as: freedom of movement,
freedom of association, freedom to protest, and freedom to work and participate in the economy.

Apart from destroying lives, these actions by the government caused mass psychological
trauma. The media also played a part in this with their exaggerated, hysterical, fear-mongering
coverage of the virus.

The basic idea behind the totalitarian response to C-19 was that some kind of brute-force,
overwhelming exercise of state power was the only way to deal with this crisis. This repeats the
mistake that many authoritarian governments in the past have made: thinking that they can
control nature or solve some major problem, if only enough force is applied. This type of thinking
has always resulted in massive collateral damage.

Some will argue that the virus was so deadly that these extreme measures were necessary. I
will just make the point that it doesn't automatically follow that the brute-force approach will do
any good.

The government and the media denied people their right to freedom of speech. The government
directed big-tech to delete posts on social media. Dissenting points of view were deemed to be
outside the boundaries of acceptable conversation by labelling them as "misinformation" or
"conspiracy theories". (Even qualified doctors and scientists were censored in this way). This is
a political censorship technique that has long been used by dictatorships to marginalise their
opponents. Much of the media coverage directed against "conspiracy theorists" and
"anti-vaxxers" was basically totalitarian hate propaganda that has no place in any democracy.
Loss Of Trust

The government says that it wants people to trust them and to trust in public heath. Well, any
educated person will know that a government that strips people of their basic human freedoms
and censors them is not to be trusted. Covid revealed the true nature of our government and
media. I will never trust either of them ever again.

The Science

As someone with a science background, I was disturbed that "Science" was used to justify the
totalitarian lockdowns, vaccine passports, and no jab/no job. Science isn't about trampling all
over people's basic human rights.

One thing that I think any covid inquiry needs to look at is: where was the government getting
it's scientific advice from? Because it was obvious to me that the response to covid had very
little to do with science. Many of the things the government did were pure theatre: curfews, rings
of steel, outdoor masks. And I could tell that the various politicians and CHOs didn't have a clue
what they were talking about much of the time. The lockdowns and vaccine mandates
themselves were technocratic, authoritarian, political ideas, rather than anything based in
science.

Just a few questions:

By mid 2020 it had already been determined that viral transmission was via aerosol and not
surfaces. But masks (useless against aerosols), hand sanitisation, and deep cleaning were still
being pushed two years later. Why?

In April 2020, there were already multiple studies putting the IFR (infection fatality rate) at about
0.3%. But there was a widespread belief in government and society that the IFR was much
higher than this, and that there would be mass casualties if the virus broke out. Why?

In March and April 2020, there was a covid outbreak on a US aircraft carrier (USS Theodore
Roosevelt) and a French aircraft carrier (Charles de Gaulle). Thousands were exposed, and a
couple of thousand tested positive. And yet, at least half the cases were asymptomatic; only a
couple of dozen ended up in hospital; and there was only one fatality. This proves that covid
wasn't the apocalypse that people were expecting. Why did the government persist with the
lockdowns from this point onward?

The mRNA technology was obviously experimental. Before 2020, no mRNA product had ever
been released and mRNA had never moved beyond animal trials. For most of their existence,
Moderna and BioNTech had been trying to make mRNA work as a cancer gene therapy and
only pivoted to vaccine development around 2017. Basic logic would indicate that this
technology had some fundamental problems, given the lack of success in the research efforts.
But the government thought it was a good idea to impose this technology onto the population
anyway. Why?

The questionable idea of "herd immunity" was one of the reasons given to impose this injection
onto the population. But there is no herd immunity for respiratory viruses (not even via
vaccination). In particular, the four human coronaviruses (OC43,229E,NL63,HKU1) come
around every year and cause 20% of all common colds. That's millions of cases per year. This is
really basic stuff. Why did no-one in the government understand this?

How The Government Can Do Better Next Time?

I can answer this question right now:

Don't lock people down.

Don't deprive people of their fundamental human freedoms.

Don't force medical treatments onto people who don't want them.

If people don't want to participate in a mass hysteria, then leave them alone.

Rob.

3 January 2024
