Professor Geoffrey M. Forbes
MBBS MD FRACP
Gastroenterologist
Clinical Professor,
                                                                    Telephone:
                                                                    Facsimile: |
                                                                    e-mail:

7 December 2023



Chair Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, Parliament House, Canberra

Dear Ms^^|


                          Re: Submission- COVID-19 pandemic response enquiry

I am pleased for the opportunity to provide feedback and suggestion on the management of the COVID-19
pandemic. This submission will focus on the cornerstone of pandemic management being widespread and
mandated societal vaccination. Underpinning all aspects of personal and societal health-care management
should be clinical rationale and justification. This submission posits that, in relation to widespread and
mandated vaccination:
    •   clinical rationale and justification by health authorities was by false premise; and was, or should
        have been, known by senior administrative medical practitioners to be false in 2021 at the time of
        vaccine mandate roll-out; and hence
    •   chief health officers, and other medical practitioners in positions of authority to impose vaccine
        mandates, failed to act in the best interests of the general public; and that
    •   the authority of the chief health officers to implement such public health mandates in the future
        should be either (a) revoked, or (b) permitted only under a vastly improved means of CHO
        governance, oversight and accountability.

As background, I am a senior ^^H-based specialist physician, presently in private practice, formerly
appointed to ^^^^^^^^^^^^1(1995-2016) during which time I had clinical, teaching and clinical
governance roles. I have worked in the^^Bandhadsignificant research and development involvements
over many years; I hold an adjunct                        professorial appointment. The contents of this
submission are necessarily medical and, in places, may be confusing to the non-medical reader. I would be
pleased to discuss any matter arising from this submission as required.

During 2020 and 2021, the medical workforce and general public were inundated with health-care
commentary from the lay press. For many in the medical workforce, this came as an unusual means by which
we received information that we might then apply to our clinical practices. The medical workforce was
required by the medical regulator, AHPRA, to comply with health department policy in relation to COVID-19
vaccination (https://www.ahpra.gov.au/News/2021-03-09-vaccination-statement.aspx). This requirement
placed practitioners in an invidious situation if health department policy was considered flawed. Some
practitioners simply accepted the 'safe and effective' mantra of government and health bureaucracy,
without seeking raw data to reflect upon. Others including myself kept abreast of reports in the medical and
lay press in order to best provide sage advice and explanation to our enquiring patients in difficult and
confronting times. 'Trust me, I'm a doctor...' is inadequate and unreasonable in present-day clinical practice;



Professor G Forbes COVID-19 pandemic response enquiry November 2023                                          1
'trust me, I'm a medical administrator...' is not a conventional means by which medical practitioners take on
clinical practice advice.

There is little doubt that geographic isolation resulted in different societal outcomes for Australia compared
with nations elsewhere. Hospitalisation and death were more frequent for the earlier alpha strain than the
mid-2021 delta strain. The late 2021 omicron strain was accompanied by lesser morbidity and mortality
again. As with other viral infections such as influenza, certain demographics faired less well with COVID-19
infection- particularly the elderly and those with multiple medical problems.

COVID-19 became established in Australia in mid to late 2021 and, for Western Australia, early 2022, with
the delta and omicron variants. Early vaccine studies had demonstrated, during the alpha strain era in the
northern hemisphere, a reduction in severe disease, hospitalisation and death with COVID vaccination. The
magnitude of benefit from vaccination was greatest amongst those at greatest risk of these specific COVID
infection outcomes. The young and healthy remain at lowest risk of these outcomes. However, clinical trial
'effectiveness' of vaccination does not imply 'effectiveness' across all clinical scenarios. Accordingly, in
September 2021, multiple health authorities were wrong to state or imply that vaccination was effective at
reducing transmission of disease during the delta and subsequently omicron eras. Robust data in support
of these claims did not exist.

A greater understanding of vaccine adverse events was becoming more apparent into mid and late 2021, yet
careful and diligent side effect monitoring was not occurring. For example, there were 495 post-vaccine
deaths to 2 September, and 719 deaths to 23 December 2021 reported to the TGA
(https://www.tga.gov.au/periodic/covid-19-vaccine-weekly-safety-report-23-12-2021),         yet the TGA
acknowledged that their investigative capabilities in determining cause of death are limited
(https://www.tga.gov.au/periodic/covid-19-vaccine-weekly-safety-report-02-12-2021). For this side effect
of vaccination alone, this represents an abject failure of monitoring. Thorough adverse effect monitoring is
a key tenet of good medical practice for new technologies, in order there can be swift procedural change if
the balance of effectiveness and adverse effects changes.

It has been my clinical practice to avail myself of current published data that I can apply to the care of my
patients; this was my practice as a senior public hospital doctor, and continues to be my practice as a private
specialist and clinical academic. As much medical information was being communicated to society by the lay
press in 2021, I spent considerable time informing myself of the most recent published clinical data in
relation to COVID-19 prevention. Accordingly, when health-care worker mandates were announced and the,
evidentl^false. rationale given that vaccination reduced transmission and was 'safe', I wrote to Dr
                |(WA) on two occasions in September 2021. I concluded:

'... the public (and health-care professions) need confidence in health-care advice. It is therefore of grave concern that
unsubstantiated and / or scientifically unreasonable claims in support of mandatory vaccination are made by the very
individuals or agencies to whom politicians and the remainder of society look, for sound and sage interpretation of
available data. By incorrectly purporting that vaccination prevents COVID-19 transmission in an Australian setting in
2021 / 22, false rationale is provided for mandatory vaccination. I will not attempt to speculate why these errors have
been made, but it is ourselves as senior medical practitioners who have the reguisite background to digest research /
audit data and apply it responsibly to the clinical setting.

I will also not attempt to detail problems with the investigation and transparent publication of vaccine adverse events,
nor the spectre of societal and individual coercion in receiving vaccines, but these speak to the ethical principles that
underpin our medical practices of non-maleficence, justice and personal autonomy that are breached by mandating
administration of the provisionally approved vaccines. Although I write with specific reference to vaccine mandates as
they relate to health care workers, the principles readily translate to broader society, where vaccine passports and
class-segregation based on vaccine status are widely proposed.'

Professor G Forbes COVID-19 pandemic response enquiry November 2023                                                     2
In a detailed November 2021 response to me, Dr^^^^^Hmade erroneous claims and justifications for
mandating vaccinations, suggesting that the principle of 'proportionality' saw personal autonomy overruled
for societal benefit.

On 24 December 2021, Dr^^^^^Hexpanded vaccine mandates in WA to include booster vaccines across
large segments of society at a time the delta COVID variant was giving way to the more infectious but less
harmful omicron variant, and I wrote to him again, concluding:

'I previously contended that mandating vaccination seriously breached important medical ethical principles of non-
maleficence, justice and personal autonomy. Now with the omicron variant dominant, there are insufficient data to
even fulfil the ethical principle of beneficence in a vaccine mandate. I urge you to determine a means by which
mandating vaccination is removed with immediate effect, and instead permit for vaccination to be encouraged
according to evolving data and recommendations.'

The     items    of    correspondence  referred   to   above    are     in  the     public    domain      at
https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/Senate/Education and Emplcyment/Vacci
neDiscrimination/Submissions (submission 129, Professor G Forbes); the reader is referred to this reference
for the full contents of these items.

The adverse outcomes of COVID-19 vaccine mandates and bureaucratic overreach into health-care delivery
are difficult, or impossible, to reverse. Many individuals have been vaccine injured; others lost employment;
businesses have been closed; education was interrupted; families separated; individuals prevented from
accessing medical facilities; trust in health-care delivery negatively impacted; and loved ones left alone at
the end of their lives; all for reasons of vaccine mandates. All of these public health outcomes were either
intended by, or will have been evident to, Chief Health Officers and others in medical administrative circles.

Whilst the correspondence referred to in this submission is between myself and the CHO (WA), Dr’s I
anc^^Hwere copied this correspondence; all were members of the AHPCC, the key decision-making
committee for health emergencies. Accordingly, whilst individual states implemented their own pandemic­
policies, these were underpinned by a federal collective decision-making process. The contents of this
submission are then relevant to all Australian jurisdictions. Why senior medical practitioners, as health
administrators, will have not appraised themselves of relevant published data, or collectively misinterpreted
or ignored these data, and not taken heed of warnings of false rationale for vaccine mandates is open to
others for conjecture. In summary, / contend that Chief Health Officers must never again be afforded the
unchecked powers applicable during the COVID-19 pandemic. I believe that it is the failing of the medical
profession at this senior level that has not received sufficient focus, and is central to understanding errors in
pandemic management.

Thankyou for giving this submission your attention.

Yours sincerely




Geoff Forbes




Professor G Forbes COVID-19 pandemic response enquiry November 2023                                             3
