Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Thank You for excepting my Submission.

I live in


With a lack of proper Health Services in the community the reliance on my local doctor is
paramount. Right from the start of the Covid situation my doctor could not provide me with
the relevant information relating to the risks from the any of the Covid vaccines available.

It was obvious that any information provided in the information slips was blank causing
much concern.


                                                                      Watching the surfing
community sick and unable to surf has been a tragedy.

Due to the covid panic locally which did not match the obvious low level risks to most age
groups my doctors decided it was easier to verbal patients into the covid vaccine with
blatant untruths. One doctor told a friend if they didn't immediately get vaccinated they
would pass covid onto all the patients in the waiting room even though she had no
symptoms or had covid.

I soon realised my doctor was no longer following the Hippocratic Oath which then became
the realisation that I no longer had a doctor. I then asked for my personal medical records
in which I was refused unless I organised an appointment? I no longer have control of my
personal records which I feel is a crime against my rights on so many levels.

As I inquired further into my rights I realised I had been failed under the UN Universal
Human Rights Obligation, Section 51(xxvi) of the Australian Constitution and Section 268
of the Australian Criminal Code. Its also obvious now that the Nuremberg Code
Obligations that Australia is a signatory too has also been neglected on mass.

I now have no Doctor, Medical History and as a Citizen of the Commonwealth of Australia
realise the Government has no interest in my well being either.

I have lost total faith in the system of Government in Australia as even the Australian Tax
Office cannot declare if it is or isn't trading under the US Securities Exchange Commission
I Foreign Agents Act.

Since the Covid Vaccine rollout began               population has decreased by 6-7%
with many in the 60-70 age bracket all with consistent themes.

Commonwealth citizens rights in Australia have been eroded over the last three plus year
so my expectation following the Royal Commission would be a Criminal Case.

My expectations would see a criminal investigation by an international independent
agency.

We also need an independent investigation/audit surrounding financial costs outlining
payments/incentives paid to politicians, policing/courts, unions, regulators, related
institutions/sporting codes and whether our Commonwealth Constitution has been
contravened.


I would ask the following is investigated whether the panel does not feel its necessary:

" Investigate the specific measures relating to the mask and vaccine mandates,
  lockdowns/curfews and the fear mongering communication strategies deployed by
  public officials.
" Concerns over the make up of the panel members overseeing the inquiry and the
  exclusion of unilateral State and Territory Government decisions
" The need for a realistic view of every statistical increase in deaths, side effects, suicides
  relating to government overreach, mismanagement and overall failure and then
  accountability so this neglect can never be revisited.


Royal Commissions such as the Black Saturday Royal Commission to date failed to
implement recommendations which places more risks on the population, services and
government yet similar outcomes return again, which I personally experienced in the 2019­
20 Bushfires.

Unless outcomes are reached relating to the endless amount of information coming out
such as the latest release of actual data from New Zealand i.e. direct deaths from Covid
Vaccines, then its possible by the time this Royal Commission is complete every panel
member could be liable under International Courts for crimes under International Laws due
to unwillingly providing an open dialogue to investigate properly.

The loss of life, side effects, relationship breakdown and continued isolation of the
population has declared a state of mass mental health disorders which can be felt across
Australia as every Government Department in every Jurisdiction. Those responsible
should be held to account.




Thanks
