To Whom it may concern,
I believe that it is imperative that a Covid enquiry is undertaken.

I have a number of points to make that have concerned me. These include the Australian
government and the South Australian government's decision-making regarding an untested
vaccination and an unknown virus. I have been left with lasting health, social, financial and
relationship difficulties.

I got Covid in early 2021. While I was sick, I recovered over the next month.
I then submitted an exemption to the South Australian Health Department.
My exemption took an extensive time to be ‘granted’. While waiting for my exception, I
attempted to contact the correct office to ask how the application was proceeding. There was no
contact via phone available, and no one answered my emails. I asked a sentor to contact the
office on my behalf, and still, the office did not reply.

I put a notice to the ombudsman to complain about the rightful action of our health department.
Due to the multiple complaints the ombudsman did investigate. The verdict was that it was a
human error that my exemption was not ratified in due time. However, I have evidence that this
department had due notice and reminders to grant my rightful exemption.

During this time, I was not allowed to work.

I needed to return to work and had the vaccine ONLY for the reason of returning to work. I
consider this without my consent and knowledge of the meaning of this action as the meaning
was not available. I do not know of the ingredients or adverse effects of this untested-enforced
medication (against medical ethics) I was forced to have the vaccination before the required
time to heal from covid. I visited my doctor to discuss my options, to be vaccinated, or not,
which vaccine to choose. My doctor was hostile and told the ‘worst case scenario’ stories of
covid while omitting any adverse effects of the vaccinations. SHe accused me of not caring for
the community.

I have read
- European
American
Australian
Data on adverse effects of the vaccination - which at best are incrimination and evidence or
contradicted action against medical ethics and research ethics
I had also investigated the circumstances in Malawie, Africa, and how the citizens had
developed natural immunity. I investigated the WHO stating the vaccine is only for the aged and
vulnerable people

Once my exception came through, I found out that I needed 2 vaccinations to return to work and
thus could not earn money. I then had this second vaccination.
6 months after my first vaccination, I had symptoms of
      -      Sore lungs
      -      Hurting in the area of my gallbladder
      -      tinnitus
On a visit to the doctor, it was declared that I had a ‘long covid’
I still have medical issues. Those are ‘mild’ enough to let go but are impacting. My lungs are
weak. I get a ‘flu’ type of illness at least every 2 months due to low immunity. I have had
pneumonia. They have now identified that I have low albumin.

My partner and I have lost friends and financially still recovering and my health has reduced.
I believe that commonwealth and state governments are liable for false information and
negligence about the adverse effects of vaccination.
