               Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission

                                                                                   David Bowden
                                                                                      13/12/2023



I am making this submission with the hope that as a result of the evidence and accusations
put forward that the Government will treat this inquiry with the due diligence that the
Australian people deserve and expand the terms of reference to include the unilateral
actions of state and territory governments and expand the enquiry to be conducted as a full
Royal Commission with the powers to charge individuals with crimes conducted during the
period March 2020-December 2023, whether deliberate or through negligence.

As a result of the actions of state and federal governments over the past 4 years, I have very
little faith that this Inquiry is an adequate response or review into what has been described
as the biggest public health disaster in Australia in the past 100 years. Mainly because it was
the actions of the governments at state and federal level that exacerbated the situation
unnecessarily and that a lot of those responsible for the poor decision making that led to
such dreadful health and socioeconomic outcomes still hold office or have moved on to very
influential positions within private enterprise and will likely be protected by those
conducting this "Inquiry."

So, reluctantly it is with great disdain and very little respect for the government and its
inquiry I put forth the following in regards to three of the current terms of reference:

   •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,
       responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance
       mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
       and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
       bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

It was the calling of "National Cabinet" by then Prime-Minister Scott Morrison where I
believe the government's response went from mediocre to calamitous. It was incredibly
apparent that the roles and responsibilities of each level of government with regard to
managing a pandemic were poorly understood despite numerous bureaucrats and advisors
being employed whose job it is to know exactly what actions are to be taken by each level of
government should such an event occur. Advice from certain subject matter experts should
then be considered in order to tailor the response with nuance and in accordance with the
law to ensure not only the best possible health outcomes but to ensure the constitutional
rights of Australians aren't breached and trampled on.

It was this original lack of clarity and understanding of job role that led to catastrophic levels
of confusion at various levels of the response. As such I demand that all minutes of National
Cabinet meetings be released to the public and investigated by a Royal Commission. It will
then be necessary to see that the appropriate legal actions be taken against individuals who
sat in national cabinet and who's negligence and decision making contributed to the deaths
of thousands of Australians.

    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
        and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
        quarantine facilities, and public health messaging)

Firstly I believe that they key principle of proportionality. A key goal of the national and state
health responses would be to achieve a response that is proportionate to the level of risk.
Noting that the risk of Covidl9 was demonstrably variable across certain population groups,
especially by age. The response of state and federal government when locking down and
mandating vaccines for people under the age of 60 bears no semblance of proportionality
and warrants a full public explanation as to why such decisions were made. A Royal
Commission should then investigate which public leaders and bureaucrats responsible for
the decisions that flew in the face of science and proportionality are responsible and make
the appropriate legal arrangements to see them trialled.

With regard to the "Vaccinations." There has been much public discourse with regard to the
vaccinations lack of safety and efficacy. I shall refrain from adding my own personal opinion
in this forum. We have been able to observe in real time the vaccines complete lack of ability
to stop transmission of covid-19 in the community and with the amount of death and injury
(DAEN, 20231) that are objectively attributable to the vaccine by the governments own
figures it is now not even up for debate that the vaccines are unsafe and ineffective.
With that knowledge I call for a Royal Commission to look into and investigate the 449
deaths and 80 000+ Injuries and make relevant legal arrangements against the relevant
decision makers who mandated the injection in certain industries, so that the families of
those killed and injured can not only be compensated but see justice for those responsible
finally be served.

It is no secret that the TGA for an as yet unexplained reason banned the prescribing of
Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine which were at the time known to without doubt reduce
Covidl9 hospitalisations and deaths.
A Royal Commission must investigate this decision by the TGA and its leadership to deny the
Australian people access to cheap, safe and effective medication in the middle of a
pandemic and make the appropriate legal arrangements to see the TGAs leadership at the
time of this decision put on trial.

    •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
        populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status,
        geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and
        communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
        communities)



1 https://daen.tga.gov.au/medicines-search/
The decision making and complete lack of intergovernmental agencies coherence during the
Covidl9 pandemic will forever remain a blight on Australian history.
Extreme measures were imposed that were never justified by either the data or common
sense. Those responsible, did so knowing full well that their actions would destroy the lives,
businesses, happiness and well-being of millions. Which is what happened.

You can't just shut down society without causing catastrophic damage to people's health,
finances, social relations, education and a lot more.

Churches were shut, schools closed, borders barricaded, people detained at home and
businesses shuttered. Draconian restrictions and penalties imposed and all our
constitutional and common law rights, trashed beyond repair.

And now we are left to deal with the socio-economic fallout: business and career losses,
family breakdowns, suicide, bitter social divisions, economic collapse, supply chain chaos,
soaring inflation, and a complete meltdown of the social fabric and public trust.

Politicians and bureaucrats single-handedly turned a manageable pandemic into an
apocalyptic nightmare from which our society may never recover. They failed at their jobs
and as human beings.

And yet there is still no Royal Commission, no apology, no accountability and no act of
atonement.

"We didn't know" wasn't an acceptable excuse in Germany of 1945 and it's not acceptable
today.

Now - A Royal Commission with the full legal powers to prosecute at an absolute minimum,
the following people, for trampling on the freedoms of all Australians must be conducted:

Scott Morrison
Anthony Albanese
Dan Andrews
Anastasia Palasczczuk
Gladys Berejiklian
Dom Perrotet
Michael Gunner
Steven Marshall
Jeanette young
Brett Sutton
Kerry Chant
Greg Hunt
Shane Patton
Jamie Chalker
John Skerritt
Michael Kidd
Mark Bodycoat
Mark Bailey
Mark McGowan
John Gerrard



It's honestly a damn shame that the vaccines never worked and so many people lost their
livelihoods because of them. The Punishment of the above individuals must be severe
enough as a deterrent that this never occurs again.

Shame on them all.
