I am a registered Enrolled Nurse with >16 years experience in healthcare settings including a public hospital,
private hospital and private specialist clinic. I am passionate about health, individualized care, evidence based
practice, medical and nursing ethics, patient advocacy and excellence in patient care.

In 2021, healthcare workers were ordered by the state government to be vaccinated against covid-19 or risk
losing their jobs. Individuals were threatened with $20,000 fines if they entered their premise of work after 1
November 2021, and businesses faced fines that were hundreds of thousands of dollars worth.

Scott Morrison (Australian prime minister) was quoted in 2021 saying "We do not have mandatory vaccination
in this country. We do not." [paraphrased.] So my question is, how did the state government premiers override
the Federal government? And what is the role of the Commonwealth government on matters as serious as
these?

I continued work in 2020 and 2021 during lockdowns, and I was occasionally sent to screen patients and
visitors entering the hospital when elective surgery on my ward was temporarily suspended. At that time, we
had no PRE provided to us. When we had suspected covid patients, I was of course willing to wear appropriate
PRE when providing care.
I had personal reasons for not wanting to be vaccinated (not only 2x does, but eventually 3x were mandated.) I
was terminated from my job in November 2021. Up until that date, I made it clear that I was willing, able, and
ready to continue my role as Enrolled nurse at the hospital where I was employed for over 13 years. My family
and I were eventually excluded from participating in society as we know it (in January-March 2022.) Not only
was I unemployed, but now I was;
      •         unable to sit in a cafe to have a coffee
      •         attend my gym where I had a paid membership
      •         take my young children to a play centre
      •         Enter a hospital or medical facility
      •         Buy liquor from a liquor store.

The over reach of the state government and the incompetence of the commonwealth government to
intervene, breached many human rights and ethical matters that I was taught in my training as a nurse.
 These are some (and not all) of the breaches that I witnessed during this time:
     •   The abuse of "emergency powers" (that are meant to last for 2 weeks) that kept getting renewed and
         renewed and renewed every 2 weeks.
     •   The freedom of movement for Australian citizens to return home and the ability to cross state borders
         for compassionate reasons such as to be with sick/dying loved ones, attend funerals, receive medical
         care, or be with their children. The list goes on..
     •        The formation of a "National Cabinet" was unconstitutional.
     •   The suppression of discussion and debate regarding strict covid restrictions, mask wearing,
         vaccinations, and early treatment for covid 19.
     •   The silencing of health professionals registered with AHPRA in expressing their views and sharing their
         own knowledge.
     •   Blanket mandatory vaccination on a genetically diverse population (not taking into account medical
         contraindications or adverse effects from doses 1 or 2.)
     •        The in-acceptance of all medical or religious exemptions.



It is disappointing, and it appears disingenuous, that the state government's actions are excluded from the
inquiry and it smells of "cover-up because it fails to address the government's most egregious actions.
If the Commonwealth government is genuinely interested in restoring public trust, nothing but a full inquiry
into the actions of all governments, government agencies and regulatory bodies will suffice.
We need a proper royal commission into this.


https://viqilantnews.com/post/unvaccinated-
scapeqoated/?amp=1&fbclid=lwAR05FfqM1b8CoWTzo5Y9t5w5KvFJyLOw50a-YqxFtkJT7x5EPxH-
FjiTHXO aem AdHUIxnzGFQpYkBOCVYmxPr4CChjf5O ZzOajj2PhRUXOo3x x8ssKOOIb5h1NdLvJA
