COVID ENQUIRY SUBMISSION - December 2023
Tania de Jong AM

We have moved so far from the values and culture that form the core identity of what it
means to be an Australian. We are no longer a humble, welcoming, fair, inclusive and
compassionate people.

As we reflect on these past years and the Covid response, it is clear to all that we have
become divided, depressed, isolated and disconnected, with both sides angry, attacking and
fearful of each other.

And this is getting worse by the day. The Covid response has been used to divide Australia
into an ‘us versus them’ mindset, the responsible versus the irresponsible, the anti-vaxxers
versus the sheep, the No versus Yes ... now, this binary division occurs on all issues. We
cannot have a sensible grown-up conversation about anything. There is no curiosity to
understand other points of view and we are all left depleted, misunderstood, censored and
more isolated than ever. It is little wonder that our mental illness, antidepressant use, and
suicide rates are skyrocketing.

Horrible, hateful, ignorant things have been said on both sides and irreparable actions have
been taken which have damaged lives, livelihoods, educations and generations to come.
And precious relationships have been damaged - many, beyond repair.

We all must own the role we have played in the degeneration of our society through
compliance, silence, fear, anger, greed and resentment.

We cannot continue to allow this decline toward a further divided, increasingly authoritarian
Australia. We need to communicate honestly and courageously; to make our perspective
heard so that others may be given the opportunity to understand. If others have not sought
out both sides of the argument, it's no wonder they think and believe what they do.

Today’s Australia is not how a democracy looks. We are in an era more befitting of a
dystopian novel in which creeping authoritarianism assaults our fundamental human and
legal rights. If we truly profess to be a diverse, inclusive and democratic nation then diversity
of thought and freedom of speech really matter.

It is time to be strong in mind and heart and demonstrate true integrity. It will require sacrifice
and preparation but we can no longer remain silent when so many lives are at stake.

Staying silent allows tyranny, injustice and atrocities to flourish. Silence keeps dark secrets
hidden
                “Silence in the face of evil is itself evil. Not to speak is to speak. Not to act is
to act. ”


It will be hard and awkward and very uncomfortable at times. However, if we continue to
allow this unchecked power through our silence and compliance, then the failure to affect
change is on our shoulders.
Speak your truth and help create the world you would like for your children and
grandchildren. No one else will do it for you.
There are many huge challenges facing our human civilization and our planet. However, if
we remain silent then we have only ourselves to blame for the increasing decay, destruction
and eventual extinction of everything we have created.
 “Our lives begin to end the day we become silent about the things that matter. ” |



Perhaps we can still live up to our national anthem and demonstrate courage and celebrate
a more harmonious, kind, compassionate and caring society.

We urge all public servants to tell the truth and clear their conscience. Please see the video
interview with this courageous NZ public servant. This is the only way we can learn what not
do in future crises. The truth will always emerge.


More important links here:

https://brownstone.org/articles/state-power-and-covid-crimes-part-1/ by Ramesh Thakur, a
Brownstone Institute Senior Scholar and former United Nations
Assistant Secretary-General, and Emeritus Professor in the Crawford School of Public
 ’olicy, The Australian National University.

https://vaersanalysis.info/2023/05/12/vaers-summary-for-covid-19-vaccines-through-5-5-
2023/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.qov/pmc/articles/PMC10452662/

https://brownstone.org/articles/did-national-security-imperatives-compromise-covid-19-
vaccine-safety/

https://www.trialsitenews.com/a/real-world-bombshell-korea-4.2m-retrospective-cohort-
stud^findsTCOvid-19-vax-linked-to-hematologic-conditions-2606c99e

Attached:

   1.       Australian Medical Professionals Society (AMPS) - “Too Many Dead”

   2. Serious adverse events of special interest following mRNA COVID-19
      vaccination in randomized trials in adults (Fraiman et al, 2022)
