      Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry


My name is Dale Cornell, I initially contracted Covid-19 in August 2020 (pre vaccine)
Unfortunately, I had a very bad case which put me in The Royal Melbourne Hospital for 21
days, 15 days of it was in an induced coma. Initially my recovery was quite good after leaving
the hospital although I had noticeable cognitive difficulty but recovering, some of the
symptoms are short term memory loss and brain fog but was able to operate relatively
normally.

My problems major health issues started once I took my first vaccine which was AstraZeneca
(2 doses) This triggered my extreme fatigue, joint pain and general mental decline.

From the very start there seems to be very little support or understanding in the general
medical community, although The Royal Melbourne Hospital has been as helpful as they can,
they have not been able to help me with any treatment. I have seen 2 general practitioners;
both have had no structure to how to treat his condition.

The fatigue has been the biggest hurdle, I run my own business but my productivity is quite
limited and have had to deal with a resurgence of the fatigue meaning I do not have more
than 2-3 hours of strength to be productive every day.

Again, I had an extreme reaction to Moderna booster in January 2022 which put me in
hospital overnight again. I have not had a booster since as I'm terrified of how my boy is
reacting to covid vaccinations, although I understand it's rare it's not unheard of. It would
have been nice to have that information available, I'm not against vaccines but there's
clearly an issue here.

It has been quite disappointing to see the Australian government moving away from any
kind of support, closing down the Covid clinics. This as an issue will eventually cost the
Australian economy in the millions as I'm sure I'm not the only one that has been less
productive. This long-hauler issue seems to be understood overseas both in America and
Europe where treatments are being developed but none of it available in Australia. A "He'll
be alright" attitude won't fix this problem. This is a wide spread issue and could be defined
as a second pandemic. Treatment first of course and a financial structure is most needed for
support.

Looking forward to hearing back as a solution needs to be found.

Dale Cornell

Mobi Ie:
