Covid Inquiry



The public, that is the people of Australia need the full details of all matters relating to vaccines.

How are vaccines procured and if there are any 'secret' contracts. Full disclosure of all the financial
matters between the government and the vaccine manufacturers.

The information supplied by manufacturers needs to be independently reviewed and the
independent reviews need to be made public and readily available.



The vaccine manufacturer needs to be fully liable for any and all adverse effects to all people of all
ages and medical conditions.

The Inquiry needs to provide FULL information regarding vaccine injuries. This information needs to
be made public.



This inquiry should be serving the people, not the government.

The government provided false information which did not serve the people.



Doctors are trained in the field of medicine and the government is not. So doctors are the
professional who provides information to patients. The inquiry needs to investigate AHPRA and its
role is denying doctors to advise his/her patients. Whether the doctors agree with the government is
immaterial. The doctors have done the study, know their patient and his/her history.



This inquiry needs to look at the rights on each individual person, and their right to make decisions
for themselves. Individuals MUST have choice over their own bodies and parents over their children.



The government should be providing information both for and against an action e.g. getting a
vaccine, and providing this information equally and fairly. It should be the governments job to
inform people, without scare tactics.



I understand that the government had in place a plan of action should there be pandemic in
Australia. Why this action not followed, needs to be investigated.



I was personally affected by the extreme disregard for my personal right to choose my own health
measures. Why were people made to take the responsibility for other people's health? I was
expected to disregard my own health in favour of other people. Yet many of those people were
taking little responsibility for the own health. Just look in their supermarket trolley and see all the
fake food. If I ate the way they did, I too would have poor health, a poor immune system.
There was no promotion by the government to inform people about how to build a strong immune
system.



I was impacted by the rudeness of people, the division that the vaccines have caused within the
family. This division has been fuelled by government advertising which was causing fear and
promoting untried vaccines.

Friends lost jobs and businesses due to the unnecessary lockdowns. All these matters affect
relationships.



What responsibility will the government take for fractured relationships, lost jobs, lost businesses.



Learn from this and NEVER ever do this again to the people of Australia.
