Coral Rick




1. I am employed as Custodial Corrective Officer pursuant to the Corrective Services Act
   2006.


2. I commenced my career with QCS in April 2008 at the


3. I have been in a de facto relationship for the past 19 years, a solid relationship that is
being tested daily by current events. I have                   vhom I adore and love spending
time with them. I am a ‘hands on’ type of grandmother who babysits and looks for excuses to
see them as often as I can.    ^^HI^^^^^^^Hlive interstate                             and I was
unable to see them during ‘lock-down’ periods which was incredibly frustrating.

4. When I first commenced with Corrections, I had no idea what to expect. Being a public
servant feels like a privilege. I am protecting the community, but I feel that my contribution
through the rehabilitation process is rewarding in that I am making a difference in the lives of
those less fortunate than me. I have seen things I can’t unsee, my experiences are far reaching
as I work across both male and female prisons. I love my job and don’t want to trade it for
another job. I worked for several years in the Reception Store at Women’s prison. This is a
specialised work area of the Centre where all external moves are coordinated. In 2020 I
transferred to the Men’s Centre in the capacity of Activities Officer. This is another specialised
work area. I also work in all accommodation areas including low custody at the Farm Complex.
My work is interesting, challenging and rewarding. I have never had the same job satisfaction
from any other work I have done. I’ve been suspended from duty because I failed to comply
with the vaccine mandate introduced in December 2021, although Corrections lifted the
mandate in September 2023 I continue to be suspended from duty as I quote from the
suspension letter:



“Until this matter is resolved for the reasons outlined below I have decided that you should not remain
 in your current workplace


I have given consideration to whether there are appropriate alternative duties available for you to
 perform outside of a specific role. In considering this, I have undertaken an assessment of the
 allegations and your role within QCS and whether your continuation in the role presents any
 potential risk to QCS or others.


Noting that there is no longer a vaccination requirement the consideration is as per any other
suspension for conduct; an inquiry into whether it is appropriate for the employee to remain in
the workplace while the discipline process is in train.


I note the comments of Industrial Commissioner Dwyer in Huntington v State of Queensland
 (Queensland Health) [2022] QIRC 290:
        In general terms, the obligation of an employee to comply with a lawful and reasonable
        direction is deeply embedded in every employment relationship. It is a fundamental
        requirement, and any breach of that requirement is liable to shatter the trust required
        to sustain the employment relationship.


A failure to comply with a lawful and reasonable direction, without a reasonable excuse is a
serious allegation and gives rise to the concern that you cannot be trusted to comply with other
lawful and reasonable directions if you cannot see the value of them or disagree with them Section 4.1
of the Code of Conduct requires employees to comply with all reasonable and lawful instructions,
whether or not they personally agree with a given policy direction.


While I am aware that you are challenging the lawfulness of the decision from the
Commissioner (and the CHO) in the Supreme Court no decision has been handed down. “
unquote.

5. I became aware of the COVID-19 Vaccination Requirements for Workers in a high-
risk setting Direction, published on the Queensland Government Health Website on 11
December 2021. On a date I cannot recall I received a text message from the Centre stating that
I would not be permitted to enter if I had not had my first vaccination by 17 December 2021
and then the follow up vaccination by the 23rd January 2022.

6. I felt sick when I became aware of the mandate. I was anxious and very confused how
someone other than myself was in charge of my medical decisions. I did research on the Covid-
19 vaccines and saw that it was experimental at best. I understand the studies do not conclude
until 2027. This is not something I wish to partake in. My overall health had suffered since the
mandate, as I didn’t sleep properly for months. I was depressed and felt helpless about the
situation. My basic human right to choose medical procedures was been violated and as a law­
abiding citizen I can’t understand why, especially when I knew that in the Correctional Centre
prisoners could NOT be forced to take the COVID vaccine, it appears that prisoners had more
rights than the people employed to care for them, very confusing. I haven’t done anything
wrong, nor broken any laws. Yet, I am being coerced into a medical procedure I don’t want or
need, under threat of losing my job.

7. On 4 February 2022, the second respondent revoked and reissued the first respondent’s
direction of 11 December 2021. The new direction called the COVID-19 Vaccination
Requirements for Workers in a high-risk setting Direction (No. 2)” requires me to be ‘fully
vaccinated’ in order to enter a high-risk setting. To be fully vaccinated I am required to have
the prescribed doses, which is not defined.

8. Prior to the directive being formally issued, the first respondent was quoted in an
official joint statement by the Premier and Minister for the Olympics The Honourable
Annastacia Palaszczuk and Minister for Health and Ambulance Services The Honourable
Yvette DAth. In that statement, the Premier announced that the mandates were:


         “The only way to prevent deaths and protect Queenslanders from new variants of
         COVID-19 is to ramp up our vaccination rollout,” the Premier said.


         “These measures are about protecting our most vulnerable.
         “To keep our children safe, we must ensure our teachers and frontline
         education workers are vaccinated.”
         The acting Chief Health Officer said:
         Chief Health Officer Dr Peter Aitken said it was paramount that anyone
         who worked in these nominated high-risk settings was vaccinated.
         “As the borders open, we should expect a significant rise in cases, so
         everyone who works in nominated settings with a high risk
         of transmission should be vaccinated to protect themselves and others,” he
         said.
         “While there’s still a chance you can contract or transmit COVID-19 when
         vaccinated, the risk is greatly reduced with vaccination.
         “You have a much lower chance of developing more serious symptoms
         from COVID-19 compared to those who did not get the vaccine.
         “We will all likely be exposed to COVID-19 eventually - and we know
         being vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself.”

9. It is a known fact that the CO VID vaccine did NOT prevent or contain the so called COVID
virus. Many prisoners and staff supposedly contracted the virus not once but many times.

10.1 am fearful of receiving the current COVID-19 vaccine. It is experimental and I am aware
of there being many cardiac and other adverse reactions reported. So many are going under
reported, and I am forced to ask why that is the case.

11.                                                                            QLD Racing also
introduced the mandate.                       of the CO VID vaccine to comply with this directive
in order to continue training horses and has been unwell ever since his second dose. He has not
been able to train horses, he is incapable of doing all the things he did prior to his vaccine, he
suffers chronic fatigue, gastro-intestinal problems and just recently has been diagnosed with a
heart murmur and diabetes. Prior to the vaccine^^^Hdid not have any health complaints.

12.1, myself attempted to comply with the direction by attending the Health and Wellbeing
Wulguru Medical Centre on 3 February 2022. I met with                       to receive my
vaccination.

13.^^^^ asked me how I was that day. I replied that I was there under duress. I explained
that I am required to receive two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine before returning to work, or I
would be suspended, and have to show cause. I thought I would likely be disciplined and
terminated for failing to comply with the directions. I further stated that I did not want to lose
my job. I had done extensive research on the efficacy and safety of the current Covid-19
vaccines available and I did not like what I had discovered. I said I was aware of many reports
of adverse reactions and death.                said she could not issue me an exemption, and
could not vaccinate me because I was not giving fully informed consent. When attempting to
comply I read out words to the effect of:

       lam aware oflegislation which gives the ChiefHealth Offtcer the power to issue certain
       directions. He has used that power to mandate vaccines in Queensland for certain
       employees. I am also aware of the provisions of legislation related to my employment
       which gives the Commissioner of Qld Corrections authority to issue directions. I have
       been directed by both the Chief Health Officer and my Commissioner to have an
       approved Covid-19 Vaccination in order to continue to work in my profession. I am
       aware that ifIdo not comply, the Commissioner will commence discipline proceedings,
       which includes being suspended with pay initially and then without pay and being
       investigatedfor a breach of discipline. I fear I may be disciplined in other ways, and
       terminated. If I do not follow the Chief Health Officer’s direction, I cannot enter my
       workplace and continue to work. I have been punished as a result by being suspended.
       I do not wish to be vaccinated and am fearful of the vaccine I am being threatened with
       discipline ifI do not comply

21.      The directions have impacted both myself and            significantly. I now suffer from
anxiety, depression and PTSD. Before I could handle myself in extreme events. I am not the
same person. My sleep is disturbed, and I have not had a decent night of sleep since the mandate
started.         health is a major concern now with his recent diagnoses.
22.    I have seen a psychologist and doctor in relation to stress. I was diagnosed with
depression and PTSD, by                                             I am having ongoing
treatment
23.    I am unable to be vaccinated as I am under duress, and I am being threatened. I am not
prepared to falsely state that I give my full and free and informed consent to receive the
COVID-19 vaccine, as I do not give fully informed consent.
24.     The spread of Omicron has reinforced the illogical nature of the mandate, and I was
more certain that being vaccinated was unnecessary and would not protect me from contracting
nor transmitting COVID-19. I have not been permitted to re-enter my work facility since the
mandate. COVID-19 is spreading through prisons like ‘wildfire’. Most of the individuals
working in the prisons are double vaccinated, at least as of 23 January 2022. It is clear that
being ‘double vaxxed’ does not provide protection against COVID-19.
25.     On 23 December 2021, the Chief Health officer Dr Gerrard was quoted as saying “In
order for us to go from pandemic phase to an endemic phase, the virus has to be widespread. You will
all have to develop immunity and there’s two ways you can do that - by being vaccinated or getting
infected”.
26.     As at 8 February 2021,1 am aware that within QCS:

a.    There were many/most staff who had contracted COVID-19. These staff had
presumably received two doses of a COVID-19 vaccines.

b.      There were many inmates who had contracted COVID-19. Their vaccination status
was unknown although prior to the mandate, in the line of duty I was present whilst providing
security for QLD Health who conducted mass prisoner vaccinations, most but not all
prisoners were vaccinated.

29.     Staff and prisoners were required to wear masks and to socially distance at all times.

30.    I was suspended with pay (base pay with no overtime which I used to regularly
undertake)                   has been unable to work due to ill health and we struggle to
meet our financial commitments. I do not have any qualifications as such. Prior to working in
Corrections I worked at a Meat Works, which was physically demanding work. I spent time
in the hospitality and agriculture industries.

31.    In February 2021 I became a benefactor in a Judicial Review in Queensland lodged by
Sibley Lawyers, this review has been adjourned by the Crown several times and we are still
awaiting a mere mention in court. The continued delay of the Review and subsequent
suspension has resulted in a significant financial loss, literally thousands of dollars in
overtime hours.

32.     I have not been vaccinated for the above-mentioned reasons and make application for
a Royal Inquiry into COVID - the governmental mismanagement and over-reach of powers
has breached and violated all Australians basic human rights. I personally have been denied
the right to medical privacy, the rights to work and move freely around my community.
Robert has been injured through his compliance with draconian mandate and directions and
suffers every day with no acknowledgment for responsibility or financial assistance.

Regards

Coral Rick
