Introduction
I am a retired 78 year old lay person. As a citizen I am pleased to have this opportunity to make this
submission to the Commonwealth's inquiry into its response to the COVID 19 Pandemic. My family and I
have been typically impacted by the Commonwealth's response, and no special or unique features are
provided. Rather, these comments should have broad or general application to most Australians.

This submission primarily addresses the "Governance" term of reference.



Key Points
The key points are: I hated the physical, social and psychological impost of any lock down. I highly value
our freedom of travel, association and amenity. Government needs to properly safeguard these basic
freedoms as they are precious. Ineffective lock downs in the unproven name of health safety were a
gross over reach and this needs to be captured. Let us not just knee-jerk on the side of safety, with no
appreciation or accountability for society's full costs of those actions.

I did however also hate the prospect of my death in a pandemic! Judgement and balance are called for.
With the benefit of hindsight, I would choose a "zero constraint" i.e. "let it rip" strategy, rather than
ostensibly the extreme risk aversion response that was adopted. But I am pleased I didn't die of COVID!



Issues and Solutions
Federation of the Commonwealth
Of course the perennial issue for epidemics and Health in Australia is that we are a Federation. There is
accordingly the problem of the Commonwealth and the States (Territories deliberately excluded here)
with their respective incompatible Constitutions and Sovereignties, all-be-them with the same King of
England.

The issue of State borders and the policy or health directives of the Commonwealth imposing certain
spatial constraints or local lock downs had different effects. Individual State and Territories' unilateral
responses are a fundamental structural reality in the management of all national crises. It certainly isn't
going to go away before the next pandemic, if ever! This inquiry needs to explicitly address this Issue.

Ministerial Responsibilities
That the PM of the day felt the need for the GG to secretly swear him into multiple Ministries and that
the GG agreed was surprising, because it is unusual! This in particular should be an explicit focus of this
Inquiry. It goes to the essence of Governance.

There may in fact be a good reason for that secrecy to have been adopted, but the public and the
Ministers concerned were not apprised of this. It could portend a significant short coming in the
established arrangements, however given that Australia did manage several world wars and other
emergencies effectively under the existing arrangements; it seems unlikely that even a pandemic like
COVID 19 would warrant such extraordinary exceptions.

It will be particularly interesting to learn what the Inquiry makes of the secret emergency powers
bestowed on the PM by the GG. Similarly the secrecy of the GG in this too is of some public interest.
Ideally any exercise of such powers by the GG should be immediately publically gazetted for all to see.

Even if Australia was to become a republic and vest all Commonwealth sovereignty in the Australian
Head of State (HoS) and abolish the GG and British Sovereignty, the States still retain their independent
Sovereignty through their respective State Governors, directly from the King

National Cabinet
National Cabinet is an interesting concept. It has the lofty goal of finding national solutions, but the
political reality is there are separate sovereignties of the Commonwealth and each of the States. They
have different jurisdictions, different constituencies, and different political parties. There is no common
authoritative instrument constituting National Cabinet.

Notwithstanding some particular national crisis, some political situation will make it expedient for
dissent by one or more members of national cabinet, from an otherwise national consensus. This is the
reality of Australian Politics. It might even be a good thing?

National Cabinet is ostensibly a good idea. It comprises the PM and his sovereign powers conferred by
the Constitution and exercised through the GG. The six State Premiers and their sovereign powers are
exercised through their respective independent State Governors. National Cabinet of course also
includes the First Ministers of the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) and the Northern Territory (NT), but
the two Territories have no sovereign powers, other than those bestowed indirectly through the
Commonwealth and the GG. Accordingly, the National Cabinet has no singular statutory or sovereign
power; its authority is vested solely in the good will of its members.

National Cabinet can do anything that it collectively agrees to do. However, no member is obliged to
agree or be bound by anything that National Cabinet proposes. It consequentially can only produce a
lowest common denominator result. National Cabinet is therefore useful only where there is consensus,
but it does provide a visible vehicle through which to inform the nation of such agreements.

A National Cabinet is nice to have; if we didn't have one, then the pandemic would have certainly
created one anyway. There was of course COAG which is taken here as the predecessor of National
Cabinet, which also functioned beyond just epidemics. Although it has no real teeth, National Cabinet is
probably still useful. This inquiry should consider how National Cabinet might be authoritatively
improved, particularly for future national Health responses.

There is nothing to bind any member of National Cabinet should they not agree with any particular
proposal. To the extent that both sides of the political spectrum can simultaneously be in National
Cabinet, makes it a unique and convenient forum. However, the independent and separate sovereignty
of each member is always just below the surface.
Establishing authoritative power for National Cabinet is a non-trivial problem. The options probably
comprehend: Revolution; through National Cabinet; on to Do Nothing. The latter option is probably the
comfortable default position for any complex issue presented to National Cabinet! Any proper solution
is way beyond scope here. Referendum?

On-shore mRNA Capability
Australia's development of virus sera and immunology has to be commended. Especially the
establishment of on-shore production of mRNA vaccines and associated technology is a very good thing.

Short of market forces, it may not otherwise have happened without the impetus or aspiration of a
national response to the COVID 19 epidemic.

These benefits ought be highlighted and rightfully celebrated by all Australians.

National COVID Phone App.
One unfortunate governance artefact was the need for us all to load the National COVID 19 Application
onto our mobile phones. It proved to be a gigantic flop. These sorts of ideas need to be better
conceived and more rigorously developed before significant resources are consumed by them. The
benefits realised by that particular fiasco appear to be zero!

The approval authority, for the public money squandered on this project, should be identified and they
should be professionally disciplined. The relevant subordinate system engineer (if there was one!)
should similarly be dealt with and sent on appropriate systems engineering or requirements
development update and retraining.

Ministerial accountability and executive responsibility are never the fault of the enthusiastic
technologists, no matter how good they may otherwise be. Ministers and Senior Executives can
properly delegate authority, but they can never delegate their personal responsibility.

Commonwealth Leadership
The TOR here, explicitly exclude the Inquiry from addressing unilateral action by individual Premiers,
however, there are some national response issues arising from those actions for which the
Commonwealth should account.

One particularly unfortunate case was where my wife's sister died in a regional OLD hospital during the
pandemic. We obtained medical certification, by a Doctor at the Hospital, that she was terminally ill
(not from COVID) and only had days to live. We presented this letter to the OLD border control
authorities seeking compassionate exemption to travel directly and exclusively to see her.

The request was denied and we were unable to visit her before she died. The point here is that the
national epidemic response plan should take a risk management approach for individual compassionate
exemptions, especially where valid documentation is provided.

Perhaps National Cabinet could establish such compassionate exemption protocols?
