13 December 2023

Local school kept unvaccinated staff employed despite Chief Health Officers advice. No one
died and the school ran as per usual.

In order for the Commonwealth Government to improve its response measures to pandemics, I would
like you to review the following case study that took place during the covid 19 pandemic at a local
school in          Queensland.

In 2021 a direction from the state's Chief Health Officer required school staff to be vaccinated against
COVID from November. This meant many school staff lost their jobs. This decision was revoked in
June 2022 and only some staff returned to the education sector. They were then further penalised
and had their pay docked. This created anger for myself (a teacher of 20 years) and many other staff
and we decided not to return to the education system. Queensland is now currently suffering high
numbers of teacher shortages across the state.

However, one school in ^^^|took their own approach and kept all staff on. There were no deaths
in the school and their school operated better than any other school in^^^|as they had a fully
staffed team of teachers and support workers.
For this to be achieved, they sent an email to parents (Appendix A) before the start of the 2022
school year explaining that they would loose a quarter of their staff if they were to follow these
mandates and subsequently were keeping their unvaxed staff on.


This clearly shows that with a sensible approach, schools were able to operate during a pandemic
with unvaccinated staff and with no dire results. I really hope you can use this as a guide and see
there are other alternatives when dealing with future pandemics. The dire results we have now are a
massive teacher shortage across the state.


Kind regards
Renae Johansen
Appendix A: Email sent by principal of|

Good afternoon,
I have a couple of things to share with you before the start of school

Firstly,
DELAYED START AND SURVEY
As I am sure you are aware, the Premier of QLD made an announcement yesterday that schools will
remain closed until February 7th in order to allow the wave of COVID to peak and begin to subside before
school recommences. Year 11 and 12 students are to begin online learning the week of the 31st before
returning on the 7th.
This direction is for all schools in Queensland, not just state schools and                 be complying with
the directive.
The directive also requires          to be open on the 24th of January for children of essential workers or
children who are 'at risk'.
If you could please fill out this survey to let us know if you and your children fit those categories it would
help us plan for those two weeks
 https://forms. office. com/r/h0ABX40Esg
(you may need to copy and paste the above link into your browser)

Secondly,
UNVACCINATED STAFF
On the subject of mandates, after the previous mandate I asked you ail to fill in a survey of hew you felt
about it being compulsory for teachers to be vaccinated. For your information, the results are below:
<1641795463749.png>l gave a similar survey to the staff to indicate whether they would be complying
with the vaccination mandate. 25% of staff will not be getting a vaccination by the 23rd of January. These
staff are from all areas of the college, including both support and teaching staff. This obviously creates a
huge issue in terms of running the college for 2022. You may have noticed that we have been advertising
for these positions. With all of the other schools in the state doing the same and having similar numbers
of staff who are not willing to vaccinate, it is no surprise that we are unable to fill these vacancies. Under
the mandate, if this occurs, we can continue to use unvaccinated staff as long as we create and adhere to
a risk assessment, that the unvaccinated staff all wear masks (which we all have to now anyway), and
that the unvaccinated staff show a negative result on a daily CO VID test. In order to continue to provide
the best education we can for your child, we will be adopting this process. As a principal who believes in
honesty and transparency, I wanted to let you all know that this is what we will have to do. I am sure that
all schools will be doing that same thing.

Thirdly,
VACCINATIONS FOR STUDENTS
I have had a number of emails and questions about this
Th® government has announced that they are encouraging all students from 5 and tip to get vaccinated.
This is NOT mandatory. Students who are vaccinated and unvaccinated will continue to be welcome at
school.
At this stage MCC has not been designated as a vaccine hub. Should that occur, children will not be
vaccinated without your consent.

As always, please feel free to send me any questions you may have.
God Bless,
