To whom it may concern.

I am a concerned individual that has felt the Government has failed myself and my family over the past three
years.

The following considerations are made under the terms of reference including, key health response measures,
governance, including roles and responsibilities, and Individual's rights to medical freedom (other).

There is a critical need for the Federal Government to review it's actions during the COVID response, and make
some substantial changes to protect citizens of Australia into the future.

The Federal government failed to protect Australians from being unfairly discriminated against. The Federal
Government could have legislated to protect individual's personal and medical freedoms, by bringing into law
provisions to make illegal the mandating of vaccinations or by making it discrimination to mandate or even ask
for people's vaccination status. Private health issues should be protected like any other category protected
under our Discrimination legislation.

It is also evident the Federal Government has wasted a huge amount of money on vaccines that have not been
used. This was a huge cost to taxpayers, and these vaccines have now been discarded. There needs to be
some review conducted on why the Government purchased in the order of seven plus doses per person in
Australia. This was a poor decision and without basis. There is no medical argument for purchasing so many
doses of the initial vaccine, especially when it was known the virus was evolving so quickly.

Another key aspect for review is the extent of misinformation provided by the Government and agencies
around the vaccines, so it is important the government review why it pushed these so mercilessly. Given their
lack of effectiveness the vaccines represented a false promise to many that took them. They were initially
claimed by the Government to stop COVID, which was subsequently and incrementally wound back to them
being able to stop transmission, and then wound back further to being able to decrease severity.

The value of these vaccines is very questionable given the vast majority of deaths from COVID are in the
vaccinated cohort, and that perhaps the Federal Government gave false hope to vulnerable that the vaccine
would save them. There is also growing evidence of significant harms from the vaccines. A member of my
family had a reaction to their initial jab, that involved^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^l and involved trip to
hospital and a lot of explorative procedures. There was no desire on the part of my partner to take the
vaccination (being of good health and young with almost no risk from COVID) until their workplace mandated
this, only to revoke it soon after. This harm could have been prevented if this sort of discrimination was made
illegal by the Federal Government.

The government must review why it promoted these so strongly, given how much of a failure they were. It
should be a lesson for future Governments that good information and education is admirable, but promoting
such a suspect product as the saviour was a negligent thing to do given the damage done.

In conclusion, I recommend that the Federal Government should now do it's best to learn from the myriad of
mistakes it made, and from that of other Governments, and come up with some guidelines on how to respond
more effectively in the future.

Reverting to a plan more akin to the Pandemic Response Guidelines pre-2020 would be a good start, along
with implementing some learnings that don't discriminate against healthy people that want to make their own
health choices, that don't push a hastily produced product as the only answer that amounts to false hope, and
importantly don't tread all over individual rights.

Yours Faithfully

Dave Smith
