First o^ll^rauma occurred by being terminated from my job at         for the first time in my life
- after^^^^l in the aged care industry (which has always been severely short-staffed from the
commencement of my participation in that industry in

- secondly, the unwillingness of any person in managerial positions to listen or agree with anything
whatsoever said contrary to the Health Dept directive, was demeaning.

- subjectively all these co-erced, mandated injections resulted in colleagues, friends and family of
long acquaintance to pick sides, as the government and media seemed to scapegoat anyone who did
not comply This caused severe depression for families, neighbours, colleagues and friends who
became divided (social fragmentation) - and those scars run deep.

- Personally, I am a single person who takes care of my own elderly parent and we have been
financially stressed since that termination date and looking into our future - as employers
nowadays do not seem to be willing to hire people over |

- In the wider society, I witnessed continued stress in peoples' living situations in my
neighbourhoods. Suddenly all the neighbourhoods that we traversed, had household goods out on
the kerb from people that were forced to move en masse. The rental stress has continued to this
day. Many landlords came into difficulty themselves (losing money / jobs/ businesses etc) and
sometimes had to move into their own property or sell. As people became desperate to find a roof
over their heads, landlords have continued to increase the rents without mercy - for the simple fact
that they know people have NO OPTIONS and NOWHERE else to go, so simply will have to
produce the cash and go without other necessities in life. Which became our situation also.

- the government states that no mandates are in place but have left it to businesses and industries to
decide for themselves. Those employers that still insist on jab proof (even though it is an obsolete
thing to have), wonder why their staff are regularly ill and why they cannot attract new staff.

- This behaviour is clearly a case of common sense having departed amongst all the decision makers
and we hope that it will return.
