Hello,

Thankyou for this opportunity to tell you my story and comment on the Covid event.


My Story.

I write as a casualty of the Queensland's Government Covid-19 vaccine directive
17th December 2021.

I was terminated by my employer for not complying with the vaccine mandate and
specifically declining the pfizer/moderna injections.
 (My offer to consider the Novavax vaccine was rejected)

I was employed as                         working in^^^^H.

I was conscientious and diligent in nearlyH years of employment in the^^^^^H
        industry both in Australia and England.

On the day that I had to comply and show my vaccination status (17th December
2021) I received a letterfrom my employer of summary dismissal.

Immediately I was suspended on no pay.

 From^^^^^^^^^^^^^H2021 I was forbidden to attend my place of work or
conduct any Company business.

 That very same day I was advised I had^^cancer which would necessitate
surgery.

I was now forbidden to access my sick leave entitlement (^H hours) even though I
had advised Human Resources of my circumstances.

All of this was imposed right before Christmas.

I was asked repeatedly when are you complying with the directive.

I was abandoned to a process that I found very stressful, degrading, brutal and an
attack on my character and conduct.

No one should have to endure this kind of treatment for taking a stand for bodily
autonomy.

In January I was formally terminated.


To clarify I am not "anti vax" as I have had countless vaccinations as explained in my
letter to my employer.

My employer's response had been established, comply or be terminated.
This whole episode was traumatic and impacted me far greater than I made
allowance for.


My crime: refusing an experimental gene based injection that had no long term data
as to its safety or its effectiveness.

It appeared to me that the Queensland government had given Employers a loaded
gun and some were willing and without compassion ready to pull the trigger.

How could this happen in Australia?

I wrote to the then current Prime Minister to ask him to intervene and stop any
mandates (no jab, no job). The response was this is a State issue and I was advised
to direct my concerns to them.

This was just one of the disappointments I had with the Governments response.
The Government had the power to stop these mandates and in not doing so
sentenced thousands of people to a termination process that was humiliating and
damaging.
There has seldom been a time in Australian history when so much was done to so
many by so few.
It is my earnest belief that none of the draconian measures would have been
implemented if clear and firm leadership could have been instigated from the Federal
Government. They past the buck and enabled policies to be past that actually
damaged people. Examples of which were lockdowns, vaccine mandates and border
closures. Australia from one Nation became a fragmented feudal system that
benefitted no one except the ego's of the states leaders.

Briefly Government failures.

   1. Hypocrisy saying they were not supportive of vaccine mandates but turning a
      blind eye to it happening.
   2. Scott Morrison taking on five ministerial appointments when we needed a
      leader totally focused on this covid issue.
   3. Leadership needs to take into account all aspects, concerns and have and
      idea of the consequences of policies enacted. To follow one medical narrative
      and not to have an eye on the financial implications has lead us to a debt
      crisis our children will have to carry.
   4. Failure to consult with medical experts from around the world that questioned
      the narrative that this was a real pandemic. The Great Barrington Declaration
      was an open letter published October 2020 in response to the Covid-19
      pandemic and lockdowns.
   5. The Covid story twisted and turned and developed as time went on. New
      strategies and processes were developed around the world but Australia
      seemed stuck in a narrative that I feel was detrimental to the well being of
      Australia. We were unable to leave the country. Expelled a sportsmen for not
      having a drug to the incredulity of the world watching on.
    6. Allowing an experimental gene therapy drug to be used on the citizens of
      Australia when details of the test results were hidden from public scrutiny.
      This will come back to haunt Australia.

Recommendations (in my humble opinion)

         1. Independent experts free from Government/Business attachments
            need to be consulted when forming policies.
         2. The freedom of people must be given priority over mandates
            especially, especially when people are being asked to take an
            experimental drug. That the decision to reject such therapy should not
            lead to loss of employment,
         3. Transparency in decision making (the government works for the people
            last I heard) and full disclosure of deals made that involve tax payers
            money, especially where big pharma and billions of dollars are
            involved.
         4. Protection to peacefully protest. No spraying old ladies with pepper
            spray, no arresting pregnant women, no heavy policing leading to a
            undermining of faith in our police force.



               Finally the Australian spirit, I thought, was a can do independent spirit.
               We came together when a crisis developed, bush fires, flooding, terror
               attacks, but what we witnessed with Covid was a society fragmented
               and smashed. Families, work mates and communities divided. We saw
               laws passed that the diggers of old would be astonished to behold.
               Freedoms eroded, liberties curtailed.
               This is now an Australia damaged and in need of healing.
               Advance Australia Fair.


Kind regards

email: Willi
