I am both a provider and consumer of health care services attempting to navigate daily life while
avoiding and managing the various impacts of Covid-19.

On a personal level I have several mild but life-impacting chronic conditions that are
exacerbated by physical stressors, such as severe viruses. I have now added
and                           to my list on conditions, and am also being investigated for^^J
                                                               - all conditions my doctors tell me
have been triggered by my February 2022 Covid-19 infection. Due to these complications, I will
have to resign from                                 I have been unable to work enough hours to
maintain my registration. I know of many other health (and education) professionals resigning
due to ill health or because they do not have a safe environment in which to work - and these
are areas already experiencing staff shortages.

I have taken personal responsibility and mask, however find it difficult to access health care
services safely when assessment or treatment requires mask removal, e.g., dentist,
dermatologist, ENT. Professionally, I have had several clients say they feel they are unable to
access safe health care. This is particularly relevant to children who are too young or too unwell
to mask, or people with disabilities that are unable to mask. Although some health care services
proudly display signs encouraging patients to ask if they’ve sanitised their hands to ensure
safety, these same providers can become rude and dismissive when asked if they are willing to
mask. Many do not seem to understand airborne transmission and rely on mitigations related to
droplets only. Some providers will indicate attempting to avoid further Covid-19 infections is a
sign of anxiety, and that Long Covid is not real - this makes finding care very difficult. Some
even incorrectly say masks don’t work. The general community as a whole seem to have similar
false beliefs around fomite vs airborne transmission, alongside the belief that nothing can really
be done and the only way to ‘live with Covid’ is to accept repeated infection and associated long
term damage. Those of us who mask experience are even belittled and intimated by members
of the public who shout at and cough at us.

The general apathy toward mitigations seems due to a failure in public health and education of
health providers and the general population. Examples include:
   - The late acknowledgement that Covid-19 transmission is primarily airborne, and lack of
       clarification and attention paid to this information as the pandemic progressed, and still
        in the present time, for both health care providers specifically and the population in
       general.
   - The focus on hand hygiene campaigns, but no adequate campaigns educating the
        population (and many health providers) on how masks work and the importance of well-
       fitted N95s; as well as no clarification when media talk about publications claiming they
       did not work were inaccurate and retracted.
   - The public messages that seeing smiles was more important than physical health and
       consideration of the precautionary principle - despite many Asian countries having a
        history of mask wearing, especially in healthcare, without any social detriments.
   - Lack of education on indoor air quality in general, and how effective opening windows
       and using HEPAs can be.
   -   Lack of education to health care providers and the general population on what Covid-19
       looks like, what it can do to the body, and what follow-up care should look like.
   -   Lack of encouragement to care for each other, e.g., RAT before catching up, stay home
       when unwell (not just for Covid-19, but for all illnesses)
   -       Lack of support to schools in reducing transmission
   -       Lack of honesty and transparency - trust in public health has fallen dramatically

The advice provided by ATAGI has also inhibited the personal responsibility that we can take.
Despite the evidence supporting boosters every 6 months, access has been limited. Despite the
evidence supporting vaccination of children, access has been denied with statements that it
would not benefit the public health system - and no consideration of individual health. The
process to procure, approve and recommend updated vaccinations has also left us with
outdated vaccinations that do not offer as much protection against new strains - we are
consistently behind the variants that circulate much more than other countries are.

The lack of education to health care providers is also impacting the treatment those with Long
Covid can receive.

Australia needs to improve the current response to the ongoing Covid-19 issues, including Long
Covid, and we need to be prepared for the long-term consequences for the public health
system.

We need:
  - Education of health professionals on Covid-19 outcomes and management, and
      reducing transmission.
  - Public Education on Covid-19 and mitigating risks - airborne transmission, wearing well
      fitted N95 and how masks work, Indoor Air Quality, how Covid-19 can present and how
      long it is contagious, follow up care, the risks and prevalence of Long Covid and how it
      impacts the body (not just a respiratory illness).
  -        Mask mandates in health care - it works well in other countries.
  -        Testing and isolation mandates in health care, aged care and disability care.
  -        Support for immunocompromised patients to access healthcare in a safe manner.
  - Indoor Air Quality mandates - for health services, schools, daycares, aged care,
      disability care, general workplaces, public buildings, shopping centers. This would also
      reduce other airborne viruses, and thus the pressure on hospitals, and in some
      instances where indoor air quality is poor, would even improve productivity. It would also
      be beneficial for future pandemics.
  -        Access to up-to-date vaccinations, including for children.
  -        Better access to anti-virals.
  - Ongoing research into the long-term impacts of multiple infections and how these
      repercussions can be treated.
  - Positive advertising around masks and risk mitigation to support a cultural shift of
      actually taking personal responsibility and caring for others, with hopes to reduce
bullying towards those immunocompromised or disabled people who are more cautious
- identification and reduction in ableism in important.
