The COVID hysteria, initiated by the governments and media in Australia, was based on lies.
The truth is that the COVID "vaccines" were never safe and never adequately tested. We
now know that the vaccines did not stop transmission and the TGA was so irresponsible that
it didn't even bother to ask the large pharmaceutical companies if that was the case. We
know that the TGA receives 96% of funding from big pharma and that is a situation which
must cease because the TGA is not independent. They are beholden to large conglomerates
that put profit over people. This has completely compromised the TGA, and it is no longer a
trustworthy organisation. It certainly does not put the interests of the Australian people
first.


Anecdotally, the vaccines have caused irreparable harms in our nation. One only has to have
a cursory look at social media                                  on Instagram) to understand
that we now have an epidemic of sudden deaths, particularly among the young, which
needs to be immediately investigated. I personally have knowledge of 3 deaths of young
people which cannot be explained, but which have a temporal association with taking the
experimental gene therapy.


We also have several friends who have been injured by the experimental gene therapy. One
has strange blood clots in her lungs which have disabled her, another has^^^^^^H
                     one
another died from a heart attack soon after taking the vaccine, another fit 45-year-old
woman had a mini-stroke. We also know of young women
                                                    All of these people were vaccinated.
Unfortunately, all of them have not received adequate answers from the medical fraternity
and doctors are 'baffled' about how these complications and deaths have occurred. The
government has no idea of the pain, suffering and misery that they've caused by unleashing
these experimental products on society. There are many, many witness statements from
individuals who have been harmed from these products if anyone was willing to look.
https://live.childrenshealthdefense.org/chd-tv/events/the-chd-bus-tour/covid-shots--
pregnancy/


I lost my job, and my son also lost his job throughout the 'pandemic' because we wouldn't
submit to the draconian mandates. I believe in bodily autonomy and therefore, would not
take the experimental vaccine. Therefore, in my household we lost two incomes. My son
was                        many months through the social isolation he was then forced to
endure. I was afraid to leave him because I feared that when I arrived home, I would find
him dead. If you bother to look at the suicide rates throughout the pandemic, you will find
that they increased throughout this period - particularly in the more draconian states like
Victoria. How can the government justify this?
Australian Professor Ian Fraser said in April 2020 on the ABC - 'We've never made a
successful vaccine for a coronavirus before. And if a vaccine elicits an immune response that
misses the target cells, the result could potentially be worse than if no vaccine was given.'
He was right and now it has been proven that the vaccines increase one's chance of
infection, not decrease it. It has also been proven through scientific research that the Pfizer
mRNA vaccine produces an "unintended immune response" in the body, which experts are
calling a massive "developmental and regulatory failure." And yet millions of Australians
were forced to take this. "Researchers from the Medical Research Council (MRC) Toxicology
Unit have discovered that the cellular machinery that 'reads' mRNAs 'slips' when confronted
with repeats of a chemical modification commonly found in mRNA therapeutics. In addition
to the target protein, these slips lead to the production of 'off-target' proteins triggering an
unintended immune response," - study published in Nature on Dec. 6, 2023.


We also now know that DNA fragments and SV40, a cancer-causing element, are found in
the experimental vaccines. We also know that through the recent study titled, "Nl-
methylpseudouridylation of mRNA causes +1 ribosomal frameshifting," that to "extend" the
lifespan of mRNA to make vaccines, the scientists at Pfizer and Moderna swapped out a
small component of the mRNA and replaced it with "Nl-methylpseudouridine" (or simply
pseudouridine). This new study discovered that adding in pseudouridine in the vaccine can
disrupt the usual process of protein production in our cells. These are human beings that
our government has destroyed - not animals in a scientific study. What's more, the UK's
most decorated oncologist/immunologist told cancer specialists at RAD51 conference that
the Covid mRNA vaccine safe and effective mantra is 'a big lie'. Professor Angus Dalgleish
presented data exposing that boosters are accelerating cancer. Can you imagine the
suffering and grief that the government of this country has caused?


The government needs to be responsible and investigate the excess deaths which have
occurred in Australia. There has been a global surge in such deaths and other nations, such
as Iceland and the Philippines, are investigating these deaths. Why isn't the Labor
government committing to such an investigation?


Another absolute abomination of the 'pandemic' was the government's censorship of social
media and the payment system to the media companies through tax concessions, to silence
the Australian public. It's tyrannical. How dare the government do this. What gives them the
right to take away our free speech? We live in a democratic nation. We have the right to
free speech. The government was the single most prevalent purveyor of misinformation
during the pandemic. We all remember being told not to talk to our neighbours and that
Covid could be caught from pizza boxes. It was the very act of stifling free speech and
independent voices, that led to the quasi-dictatorships evident in WA, VIC, the NT and QLD.
People died because of the Premiers' reckless leadership. Independent, free-thinking
doctors, who could have helped to save lives were shut down because of the government's
interference in the social media and media companies. We all know now that easily
accessible drugs like Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine would have helped some people
who were suffering from this virus. This censorship and misleading information have
definitely burgeoned a distrust in the mainstream media - which is well deserved. The
length of the lockdowns, the damage that they caused and the loss of life that we endured
because of them, won't be easily forgotten. The lengthy lockdowns have also damaged
Australia's reputation throughout the world and that is something our governments should
also be ashamed of. Locking people in their homes and denying them access to services
(such as haircuts, etc) is akin to             dictatorship.


Trust in the government has also been destroyed and that too is a reasonable response.
Australians were subjected to disgusting, reckless and draconian government overreach and
your job, as a committee, is to recommend that this sort of authoritarianism should never
happen again in a free, democratic society. Charges should be brought again any politician
who instigated and enforced mandates of an experimental gene therapy product.
