                                                                                                     1




14th December 2023

I am an extremely concerned citizen, Mother, Grandmother and Sole Trader who like most
Australians have been deeply crushed since March 2020.

My           and I have been deeply affected but, I believe some appear to be unaffected so I can
only go by my own personal experience.

I come from a Medical, Health and Fitness background as well as sales and customer service. Being a
critical thinker I found it very frustrating that health was not being promoted, it was the total
opposite. I even questioned the Department of NSW Health on providing me with scientific evidence
that masks worked in preventing the spread of viruses as I was only able to find peer reviewed
studies (81 at the time) that stated they didn't work. I wrote to our Local MP        on the 7th
April 2021 only to be ignored. I wrote to the Governor of NSW Margaret Beazly ACQC on the 25th
November 2021, once again ignored with no reply. The only MP who answers my emails and calls
was                 MP who at the time looked after my             district and
from the Attorney- General's Department.

First of all, my                                            was mandated to receive the Medical
intervention AstraZeneca (1 dose) without proper informed consent (I don't think crying in a
Doctor's surgery would be classed as consent) just so he could go to work being more than Skim
from his zone, put a roof over his families head and food on the table. He was ill within hours and
had a week off his employment. Within weeks he had                                        which led to
numerous doses of                  He is now                   and has                        of some
kind. He is about to undergo a       has he feels he hasn't been the same since. To top that off
his ^^|was let go from her employment due to not having the jab even though she was working
from home at the time.     Her exemption was not accepted, even though her specialist had not
recommended she undertake this jab. The stress on both of them has been horrendous.

Secondly                                                   was shut down twice during the NSW
lockdowns. The major part of his business was operating from the grounds and hall of the local
school and due to the NSW education decimation at the time he couldn't return back to work after
the second lockdown. His group fitness programs were destroyed due to these policies.

Thirdly we were not able to attend my                    funeral, nor my|         ^■funeral due to the
Queensland border closures.       We were unable to see my                        his     and our^^l
           due to the Victorian border closures for almost two years. Needless to say the hell that
Victorians were put through from the Andrews government.

Our suburb in the                              was within those Skim radiuses imposed, with police
patrolling the area to make sure we did not gather and to make sure we were wearing our masks.
Helicopters were constantly flying overhead deliberately creating fear.

I came to this country from the                with my        an              and up until now I would
call myself a proud Australian. I am a law abiding citizen who has worked hard to raise my family
                                                                                                      2


and continued education that has served the public and now I am being treated like a criminal and
being label by the government as an anti- vaxer. Up until now I have had all my childhood
vaccinations and so have            My ^^^Hsaid I was never the same after my
                     After my last vaccination in^^Hto travel overseas I developed
           which took 5 years to overcome. I understand the science as I come from a nursing and
medical background and I am witnessing so much corruption and conflict of interests right now. I
have lost faith in our government who appear to have been taken over by unelected corporate elites
and no longer serve the people and don't have the people's interests at heart. I studied History at
school and I listened to my grandparents who had served their countries and it appears history is
being repeated very similar to 1933 to 1945. I am now feeling the ripple effect of a medical
apartheid very similar to an apartheid I witnessed in South Africa on our way to Australia inH. I
have watched our state premiers acting like^^^^Hand seemed to be competing to see who can
be the biggest villain; our prime minister appeared to be doing nothing to stop them.

Why did the states allow the mandating of a vaccine that was a clinical trial until 2023? No one
should be mandated to be part of a medical trail with death or injury as a possible outcome. The
reports of injury or death are not misinformation and the information is available on various
Government websites around the world even though under reported. As friends and family suffer
around you, it will be harder for the reports to be hidden.

Forcing a medical procedure onto a person is morally and ethically wrong. In spite of what State and
Territory Public Health Directives say, we are protected by Common Law, our Constitution, the
Federal Biosecurity Act and several International Treaties relating to Human Rights. Informed
Consent and conscientious objection is our right as humans. What is happening in Australia right
now can only be described as a medical apartheid, Even the Lancet published November 20, 2021
Stated that Covid -19 stigmatising the unvaccinated is not justified.

 I could go on for hours and pages on how much this has affected our family, friends, and clients, our
fellow Australians, our businesses and finances.

In summary, I will never forgive those who closed down our business, stoped us from attending our
family funerals due to border closures and even preventing us leaving our 5klm radius. We couldn't
see our loved ones; we lost family and friends due to the differences of opinion. They continue to
censor us from information and won't allow scientific debate. Fines were issue for not wearing
Masks without any science to back their insane mandates. They prevented us from entering shops
and services needed, made us do everything online. No respect to our privacy which saw employers
intrude into the private medical histories and records of their employee's, no regard for the Australia
Privacy principles, enshrined in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth). All while watching the biggest transfer of
wealth in history. We are left with our loved ones injured from the medical intervention and we
continue to witness the loss of friends and family, yet no one appears to be interested in
investigating the excess deaths. A friend recently said to me let it go, it's back to normal now, then
why is all the current legislation going through, ready for our state and federal governments to strike
again and silence our Doctors and Nurses. I for one WILL NEVER FORGIVE or Forget!

Yours sincerely
3
