Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry - COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.gov.au

To the Members of the Independent Panel,
I am writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects of Australia's response to the COVID-19
pandemic. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry's goal to improve pandemic preparedness, there
are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny in our preparation for any actions which may need to be
taken in the future.

Relevance to the inquiry:
  1. Broader health and social supports
The Mask mandates: The implementation of mask mandates had a grossly significant impact on individual
freedoms and social dynamics of all citizens. They impacted especially Small Businesses which are the
lifeblood of the Australian economy. Masks have since proven to be ineffective in curbing the spread of viral
infections. Some older citizens are still walking around with masks covering their mouths.

The Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of vaccine mandates had significant impacts in curbing or
over-riding the personal thoughts, beliefs and medical information of the people who did not wish to be
vaccinated. Evidence has since proven that the vaccines were totally ineffective. There was no consultation
process and the individual rights of citizens were summarily overridden.

The Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, and psychological impacts of lockdowns and curfews
have been profound. The Australian economy and society is still reeling from the disastrous effects of these
measures. Thousands of Small Businesses were forced to close their doors, some forever, because of
these measures. We are suffering the effects of rising interest rates due to these measures.

 2. Community supports
The Communication Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use of fear in public health
messaging. All the messaging did was to engender an undue amount of fear of those who felt vulnerable or
who believed whatever was conveyed as being the truth. How many people feared fortheir lives because
of these messages?

3. Financial support for individuals
No comment

 4. Governance, including roles and responsibilities
The Panel Composition: The appointment of Inquiry panel members is highly suspect as these persons had
previously expressed their support for the pandemic measures. How can these persons be considered as
impartial or capable of an impartial review? They will not condemn themselves. Panel members who have
expressed support for such measures should be excluded from this inquiry as the results will be tainted by
their bias.

The Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: If the steps taken unilaterally by
state and territory governments is not included then this inquiry will be useless as the impact of the
involvement and forcefulness of the state and territory governments cannot by minimised or excused. This
needs to be a significant feature of this inquiry. The decisions taken by these elected bodies, including
state-imposed lockdowns and border controls, were pivotal to the nation's pandemic response and should
be included in the Inquiry.

5. International polices to support Australians at home and abroad
No comment

6. Key health response measures
No comment

7. Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
No comment

8. Support for industry and businesses
No comment
Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Giulio di Somma                         Page 1 of 2
The Need for a Comprehensive Review
While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above-mentioned areas are
not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all aspects of the government's response,
including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope which one finds incomprehensible. Without total
transparency our future responses will be tainted by the lack of depth of this inquiry and Australia cannot
afford another disastrous pandemic response.

Conclusion
My submission represents one of a collective call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation into
Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast aside with
fearmongering as it was by Australian governments during the pandemic. I urge the Inquiry to consider
these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the safeguarding of Australian values and liberties.

Giulio di Somma.




Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Giulio di Somma                          Page 2 of 2
