Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry                         Peter Lake    15/12/23

As a retired public health physician with an interest in infectious diseases I would like
to make the following observations and suggestions.
1) By comparison with many other countries Australia got off lightly during the
COVID pandemic. We may not be so lucky again. COVID mortality was under 1%
but even so there has been disruption, fear, anger and scepticism
2) A future pandemic caused by a different agent (eg influenza, SARS) with many­
times higher mortality, is a definite possibility. This could happen at any time and
with little warning
3) In the COVID pandemic's early stages there was a scramble by politicians and
experts who were apparently caught napping. Previous pandemic preparedness
efforts had not been maintained and stockpiles run down
4) State and federal authorities' management of the pandemic changed the country.
Control measures used then would be far more difficult now due to politicisation of
key elements (mask wearing, vaccination, isolation, border closures).
5) To its credit the federal government has been establishing a national Centre for
Disease Control, albeit slowly. Meanwhile though, our population remains
dangerously exposed
6) High quality leadership and funding adequacy of this national CDC will be critical
to how well the country fares during future pandemics. Like the defence portfolio the
CDC is a national security initiative requiring strong bipartisan support
7) A close relationship between the national CDC, its state and territory counterparts
and AIH&W will be critical
8) Team building and joint professional development of these groups will reduce the
chances of confused public messages and poor advice to politicians. Long term
contracts or permanent appointments are needed so good people are attracted and
held
9) During any future pandemic this expert body must be capable of a two way
relationship with the community - listening to concerns, answering questions, and
providing regular updates and practical advice
10) A high quality media strategy is needed, ready to be rolled out - not merely
amateur talking head experts spouting mixed messages as has happened with
COVID. Like epidemiology, health promotion is a discipline with an evidence base
and methodologies. Both are key to better management of future pandemics
11) Many of us trying to follow the course of the COVID pandemic have been
frustrated by haphazard, incomplete data collection and presentation and in some
cases outright secrecy by health officials
12) Regular consistent public reporting and interpretation of COVID data would have
built trust and made it more likely that people would comply with health advice.
"Level with the public!" as treasurer Chalmers says
13) Without application of a better strategy it is likely there will continue to be waves
of COVID infection across the population every few months as new variants arise
and people's immunity wanes
14) Large numbers of residential aged care facilities are currently dealing with
COVID outbreaks among their staff and residents and yet only a minority of these
people are up to date with boosters - a serious policy failure
15) Since COVID infection is known to increase the risks of heart attacks and strokes
it is possible these are contributing to hospital overcrowding
