 To:             COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel (CRIP)

 From:           Ryan Franz

 Date:           Wednesday, 8 November 2023

 Terms of        International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including international
 reference:      border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic use
                 in Australia)



 Introduction

 Thank you for the opportunity to make an individual submission to CRIP, it is something I had greatly hoped
 would happen and I applaud the Commonwealth Government (the Government) for establishing this
 independent panel to ultimately improve Australia’s preparedness in the future.

 M^aame is Ryan Franz, I came to Australia in         from              as a student and became a citizen in
      After a few years abroad to study and travel, I returned to Sydney in      to start my career. I lived in
 Sydney from then until late 2021, when the events oudined below, forced a change my now wife and I wished
 we didn’t have to make.

 Acknowledgements

 I would like to make this submission acknowledging the following realities that hold true, despite my personal
 experience:

 1.    I cannot begin to appreciate the challenges and complexities of managing a global pandemic from a
       Federal Government’s perspective. I do not approach this submission being critical with perfect 20/20
       historical vision. I believe most Federal and State workers tried their best under very dynamic and
       stressful circumstances, and for the most part, I am thankful for their work that will probably never fully
       be appreciated; and

 2.    My experience sits alongside, not ahead of, many other Australians that endured a very challenging
       pandemic period

 Submission

 In February 2021, after a run of bad health, my mother who lived in ^^^^^^^Bnformed me that she had
 been diagnosed with                                              Panel members would probably know that
^^^^|is a muscular degenerative disease with no cure. Typically, people pass away between 3-5 years from
 diagnosis but there are oudiers on both sides of that range. This was a terrible shock, but my wife and I had
 hoped that her condition progress would be slow enough for us to see her.

 By mid-2021 her health had deteriorated more rapidly than expected. She was largely bed bound and being
 fed through a tube. However, we were able to share some exciting news that we were expecting our first child
 (a boy) and were engaged. Again, we hoped this would give her the strength to stay with us for a bit longer so
 we could see her. But her health continued to deteriorate.

 At this stage of the pandemic, we were all aware of the restrictions put on travel, which at the time seemed to
 have no end in sight. Similar terrible stories were emerging of people unable to see dying or sick family
 members across state lines, never mind in other countries. For the most part, we understood that the world
was largely in the same boat and wrestling with the challenges of protecting their populations and health
systems.

However, I became aware of numerous people I personally knew who were travelling internationally for
work, somehow accessing quarantine and assuring their place back in the country. This is not conjecture, this
is a fact, supported by similar examples of other people I personally knew who were afforded the same
opportunity to travel internally, across State borders. Further compounding this sense of double standard,
Australia became the country for some celebrities and high-profile individuals to fly in and out of, to see
COVID out in relative safety. This was widely documented in the Australian media, with one particularly
galling example being the then Prime Minister’s evangelical paster mate                    flying all around the
US preaching the good word (I assume he got back into Australia with no dramas). In summary we had two
cohorts of people, people of economic value to Australia and people of status value to Australia moving
freely into and out of the country.

At the time I was aware of the Compassionate Travel Exemption option the Government had established,
and so I made a submission attaching a letter from my mother’s Neurologist oudining her condition and
grave prognosis (Rider 1 - doctors name redacted for confidentiality). My belief was that given some people
were moving around globally for relatively superficial reasons, having a terminally ill direct relative who was
on death’s door, would qualify me for compassionate travel. Clearly not, I received the attached, heartless
email, from the Government (Rider 2). I was absolutely floored - to have my application rejected, despite my
circumstances, and for this rejection to be delivered in such a manner had a mental, emotional and physical
impact on me that I cannot articulate in words - an impact that I am still grappling and struggling with on a
daily basis. Please do not underestimate the ramifications of this decision and how it was managed.

I was now in a situation whereby I had to weigh up two options:

    •   Travel to^^^^^^^^o see my dying mother, with no guarantee of a way to return, knowing that
        this may result in missing the birth of my son; or
    •        Stay in Australia and say goodbye to my mother via Zoom.

To say that these options were troubling and unsatisfactory is an extreme understatement.

However, in August/September 2021, after much consideration, and incredible support from my employer
anodaer option, albeit more drastic, presented itself. We decided to uproot our lives and move to live in the
^^^vhere I could travel freely to                 Within weeks of making this decision, my employer had
approved my transfer, arranged shipping and organised me a^^^vork visa. And as if the Government wasn’t
making it hard enough to travel in the first place, we then had to get travel exemptions approved to leave
Australia, incurring more costs including lawyers. When time was of the utmost and urgent importance, this
added another process, more cost and time to our departure.

My mother died approximately 2 weeks before we departed for the

Our family was devastated, and as a direct result of the treatment received at the hands of the Government,
we stuck with our decision to leave Australia to live in the^H. This was also influenced by our need to
reconnect with      based family and it still afforded me the ability to return to ^^^^^^Mtobury my
mother. So, with a 7 month pregnant wife and a dog we departed Australia and lived in th^^Jfor 2 years. If
I am honest, I cannot tell you how incredibly let down I felt by the Government’s handling of COVID at that
stage.

The result is that we endured enormous family anguish by being ‘trapped’ in Australia with an imminently
dying parent, and so uprooted our entire life to the^H with all the physical and emotional effort that
requires, and spent tens of thousands of dollars in doing so.


                                                       2
Considerations for CRIP

The civic contract we have with Government is that we act as good citizens (law-abiding, tax paying, etc.) and
Government works for its citizens to provide the services, infrastructure and processes for those
communities to flourish. Notwithstanding the unprecedented nature of COVID and the many competing
priorities for the Government, this element of its COVID response was a categoric failure and my view is
that this stemmed from the fact that strategic action in the first year of the pandemic was not swift enough
(paraphrasing the PM: ‘It’s not a race to get vaccines’), which backlogged the entire response and left Australian
trailing the developed world (even the developing world). This cost citizens including me, time they did not
have to spare.

My suggestions for the future readiness as it relates to Internationalpolicies to support Australians at home and abroad
(including international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with internationalpartnersfor domestic use in
Australia)'.

1.   (Prioritise the needs of citizens and residents (within and Australia and abroad) who have
     genuine special circumstances - not people based on their status, influence or prominence).
     Civics over status. It is wholly unacceptable that a person can’t access a dying relative or that families are
     separated for months/years if their circumstances warrant proper consideration, while ‘connected’
     business people or famous individuals have freedoms that others don’t. Means tested (based on evidence)
     processes should be established;

2.   (Quarantine) If the Government is going to be wedded to a quarantine system in the circumstance of
     another pandemic, then it needs to be ready to implement this system. I would have sat in a ventilated
     shipping container for 2 weeks if I knew I could leave Australia with a guaranteed quarantine slot upon
     my return. We built a sophisticated track and trace system within months, surely we can establish
     quarantine systems with relatively short notice or have plans in place to establish them efficiently;

3.   (Special Channels) If you are going to offer channels to access special consideration for travel then
     actually have them function properly. I suspect that the true breakdown in this function was the complete
     mismanagement of the quarantine system. But no amount of explaining is going convince me that seeing
     a terminally ill parent that has been given months, if not weeks, to live does not fall under the
     Compassionate consideration category. If you are going to offer hope then deliver on it. As naive as it
     sounds, this was personally very damaging in my trust in the Government;

4.   (The Federal Government) In very special cases the Federal Government needs to be able to centralise
     decision making and control the situation unilaterally. The political arguments over who was responsible
     for the borders and quarantine was so pathetic to listen to. Your citizens will respect control and
     decisiveness over blame games played out in the media. In these times we don’t care about politics, we
     care about net effective outcomes.

Thank you for making this submission possible, hopefully we never have to use any of the suggestions put
forward to CRIP but I hope that as a nation, we can respond far more effectively in future if needed.

Thank you,


Hyan Frang^




                                                           3
