15 December 2023




                      Submission for the covid-19 Response inquiry

Dear Sir/Madam,

Thank you for this opportunity to place a submission into the Covid 19 response.

I will start by saying that the covid 19 response had a huge impact on families, relationships of
couples and friends and destroyed a lot of businesses. It stopped a lot of sick people on waiting
lists from accessing medical interventions and from attending medical appointments from
regional areas to places like

All my information is a collection of speaking to various people in the community, family and
friends who were not able to articulate their stress, concerns or worries because of fear of
being targeted by the authorities or other friends and family. People were genuinely scared
especially the ethnic people, that someone would come and take them away. This is a genuine
PTSD concern.

During this whole social experiment we had footballers and their families still play and travel,
and other elites going in and out of state, People were locked out of the state of           and
had not been able to see their family, Businesses had been shut down or closed completely, no
funerals, no weddings, no going to church or faith, not being able to see families or visit the
elderly, people with disabilities had services scrapped or reduced, kids unable to be educated
and playgrounds in Victoria closed down. Is this really what we are all about.

There should have been choice and informed consent..

Teenagers had reported rare side effects of myocarditis etc from the vaccine. Kids should not
be getting these vaccines nor have these side effects. What sort of life will they be having? We
do not know all of the side effects of these vaccinations. And if there are so many side effects,
why would it be allowed to be administered.

And what had locking down achieved? There should have been other levels of intervention
before jabbing people with an untested substance. If people are sick they just need to stay
home either way. And the testing with PCR tests and mask should stop as they are creating a
lot of sinus infections, bacterial infections, herpes infections, staph infections etc.

Please consider these submissions, carefully as there has been so much damage, harm, mental
and physical health

I have a series of questions, which were not allowed to be asked during the delivery of the covid
vaccinations, three years on, I feel that we need a royal commission and an urgent inquiry. We
need answers and we need justice to all these atrocities.



                        Submission for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Page 1
Mandates need to be removed so that people can work. There is worker shortage everywhere
and this should now be removed. All the mandates did was create stress, anxiety, depression
and no work. People need a job to thrive in the community and to support families.

Where is the accountability, due diligence, honest reporting, feasibility studies, consultations,
review, disaster planning management etc with all the authorities?

How many politicians and public servants actually have received the true supposed covid
vaccination?

If the vaccination wasn't mandated in the Scott Morrison years why was it being pushed so hard
by the states?

Were the people who authorised the supposed vaccinations actually medical professionals?

What is the MRNA technology really all about?

Why was the supposed tested vaccine not given to the people? Why, because the tested one
wasn't the same as the one that they gave out.

Where are the statistics and findings of all the people that collapsed and were injured from all
the adverse reactions, blood clots? Myocarditis? Pericarditis? Blood clots? Neurological
shaking? Collapsing? Eye infections? Etc etc

Who is actually benefitting financially from the push of these so called vaccinations?




Vaccinations take years to scrutinise, evaluate, test and review, why was an untested vaccine
allowed to be given for emergency use? And what was the emergency use at the end of the
day?

What was the actual origin of the covid virus and why hasn't that been discussed?

Why were playgrounds closed^^^^^|during Covid?

Did anyone ever consider the dangerous state of affairs of having everyone return to the state
^^^^^|when a lockdown was called? Eg all the traffic jams, people driving long distances
with minimal breaks, the accidents that could have happened?

Why are there so many people injured from the vaccine when they were fit and healthy before
it?

Why is there so much heart issues in perfectly healthy young athletic fit people?

Why is there is so much more^^^|than normal?



                        Submission for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Page 2
Why is there so much more blood clot situations and strokes and neurological shaking
conditions than normal?

Why were the politicians who gave their authority to push these vaccines that are now no
longer in parliament?

Will people be compensated for not participating in community if they were not vaccinated
with the supposed covid jab?

Why were people ousted from participating in community, shopping, functions, events if they
were not jabbed?

Will people be excluded in the future through not being able to qualify for a covid
passport/digital id/carbon credit/social credit score system?

Why were people locked out, locked down, stopped from visiting the elderly, the sick in
hospital, accessing hospitals in other states, made to rush back when there was a supposed
lurgy over the border and made to be put in a dangerous situation when driving when there
was nothing to fear etc, all the meanwhile politicians were running all over the country side to
holiday destinations and footballers were able to fly all over the country to play football, but
everyone else were imprisoned in their own homes and not able to go more than 5km????

We are all human beings and for people to have been segregated and divided for another
human being when in 2019 we were all able to walk together, goes against all human rights
charters. It is an outrage, a disgrace, and people who make these decisions against these
people should carry the biggest shame in their hearts. A lot of kids are now very disengaged
from attending school which is putting a lot of pressure of parents with their work
commitments.

These are crimes against humanity, kids not being able to go to school, kids mental health going
through the roof, people having to work from home and home school at the same time creating
a lot of pressure on families. Since working from home scams and hacks have risen, 100 fold and
people had and still have access to private information which no one is really speaking up
about.

A lot of people suicided because of not being able to work or participate in community or social
events.

Where are all the investigations into people with injuries?

People who paid rates and taxes couldn't access services, when going to the doctor's office
people were literally treated like lepers by way they had to wait outside until they were called
up. People couldn't access the library if they didn't have the prison system of the qr vaccine
passport code




                        Submission for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Page 3
Digital ID and CBDC and Carbon Credits and Social credits system is no different. We were all
played and scammed and treated like second class citizens with fear and coercion just to be
controlled and be experimented with to see who would comply with this experiment.

How was the then^^^^^B^remier allowed to have so much control in locking people out,
locking people down, 800 or so people dying on his watch, and no accountability was
undertaken for the mental and physical damages caused to those families. And then we
discover that he had put^^^^^finto 5 categories during covid

Public servants and politicians were still paid on full pay while business owners ended up having
to shut down, coerced and bullied and were threatened for thousands of dollars in fines if they
didn't comply to the covid vaccinations rules.

Why was so much infrastructure created to bully and coerce people into being vaccinated?

Why was so much infrastructure created using our police force to bully, shoot, and stop people
from travelling, and going about their business when covid was simply a mere cold.

Why was there so much fear and panic created amongst the community, if the vaccine was
going to protect you and grandma and that it was touted as safe and effective?

Where is all the data, reporting, reviews, logistics to say that the mrna technology slash vaccine
was safe and tested for use?

Who was the world wide committee and Hollywood crisis acting group who allowed this
vaccine to be distributed when there was no reason to have shut the world down for a cold
when the world was never shut down before when a cold or flu developed?

Why was there so much fear mongering for a cold virus?

We should also be asking why is a group like the



Why were doctors surgeries treating the vaccinated and the unvaccinated differently when all
sick people were all treated the same before? We don't have leprosy in Australia.

Why were the unvaccinated not able to work just because they wanted bodily autonomy?

Will the public servants and politicians be tested to see if they actually got the real vaccine?

Why were famers denied going over the border to tend to their animals?

Why was there a need to have a lot of policeman lined up over the border to check covid
passes of people? These people were not criminals.

Why were people violated with untested per and rapid antigen tests which in the end didn't
really prove anything?




                         Submission for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Page 4
Who is going to compensate all the businesses that had to close down because of all the
absolute codswallop created from this pysop?

And why were people allowed to be bullied, shut down, treated like lepers, degraded and
locked out of shops just because they would not have a poisonous jab put into their arm? This
was against all human rights. This was the biggest outrage.

We know that the politicians and public servants possibly got given a placebo, we know that this
was all to create fear and tyranny to prepare or see who would or would not comply to the
agenda. This is not how people should be treated.

I approached an independent mp in our area about Covid and about all the damages, and all
that person said were words to this effect, "that we can only learn from it".

So we will learn from people having no jobs, no work no finances to feed their family, will we?

So we will learn from all the people that died and got injured and cannot now enjoy their best
life, will we?

So we will learn from people being treated like lepers and locked out of shopping complexes,
and pools and libraries and gyms, will we?

So we will learn from people not being able to participate in the community with volunteering
and support and helping families and the elderly and people with disabilities, will we?

So we will learn from people who are now constantly sick because of the side effects of the
covid vaccination.

And there are many more.

What gives the politicians and public servants the right to tell us what to do with our lives or our
bodies?

The biggest question of all, where were the bio hazard bins within the community and
hospitals for all the masks, the per tsts, the rapid antigen tests? All these aids were thrown
out in the street and no one battered an eyelid. Masks etc were left on fences and on
footpaths.

There were a lot of organisations still asking for people to be vaccinated just to volunteer. Why
would you get any vaccinations or boosters just to be a volunteer, its not like that organisation
would support you if you had adverse reactions or died. This is stopping people from helping
within the community.

If all of the above had happened to one of the politicians or members of their families, it would
have been a different scenario now.

Its time to have a royal commission and all the public servants that have left their positions to
be recalled and brought to justice and apologise and have a conscience for all the atrocities that


                        Submission for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Page 5
they created. Never again must this be repeated. We must never forgive or forget all the people
that have died from this experiment.

If this was truly a crisis, it was poorly managed. But it wasn't a crisis it was a man made event,
with an evil agenda and poorly executed, with no accountability and not a care in the world to
the damages caused. This covidl9 vaccination just kept going even though people were dying
and being adversely affected by the side effects. That was just                     and
irresponsible. Pharmaceuticals should be held to account along with the people that pushed
this.

All this has done was highlighted that governments and other bodies especially the
pharmaceutical companies cannot be trusted any longer. The community have lost faith.

To the duly elected leaders of our state and country that have worked hard and supported their
constituents, thank you. To the duly elected leaders that have lost their way, there is still time
to change and reflect and be brave to do the right thing. Let your consciences be your guide
because if this isn't dealt with sooner rather than later, you as politicians who did wrong will
have to live with this. God bless you all and thank you for an opportunity to have my say.




Kind regards




               December 2023




                        Submission for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Page 6
