So many credible doctors around the world warned that the covid jabs were not safe and effective. That has now
proved to be true. I know so many people who have not had covid but have been majorly, adversely affected by the
jabs. Two young children in the one family getting epilepsy within a week of getting jabbed. Many friends getting
myo and pericarditis to varying degrees. Some still cannot work. I know 5 people who got Bells Palsy soon after the
jabs. Two are still suffering to this day and can no longer work. I know dozens who got shingles and at the same
time TV advertising campaigns were saying that one in three people would get shingles. I spoke to doctors and we
all know that this has never been the case before the jabs. My mother in law died within a week of getting the
second jab. A perfectly healthy lady. Out shopping at Bunnings and Mitre 10 one day and gone the next. My
personal stories could go on and on.



However worst of all, my mother died of a broken heart in a government funded nursing home without any of her
five children being allowed in for months and months on end to see her. What an abomination and sad reflection on
where our government is at in Australia. I am no longer proud of being called Australian.



I personally chose not to take the covid jabs, (I'm not anti vax - I just went to Zimbabwe and in preparation took
vaccines for Cholera and Typhoid) and I also chose not to wear a mask in public through the pandemic. Despite
being with so many people (including family) who discovered they had covid within a few days of seeing them, I have
never had covid, despite being tested each time.



There is so much I could relate, except to say that the tyrannical government bullying went against all world human
rights conventions and still did not achieve what the government was so confident in telling the public it would. Ie. I
still have a video of the then health minister Roger Cook and our premier Mark McGowan saying that if you take the
jabs you will not get covid, you will not pass it on and you won't die from covid. Something that was passed down
from the WHO and repeated word for word by media and government officials in their scare campaigns all around
the world. They were wrong on all accounts. Yes, people did die but they were mostly the old and vulnerable that
could die from a flu anyway. An interesting fact is that the flu totally disappeared from the WHO statistics during
covid. It was suddenly exchanged for covid. I have proof and pictures of this from the WHO website itself, in the
early stages of the so called 'covid' pandemic. Evidence is out now too saying that many died as a result of the jabs
and not from getting covid.



I personally believe that there should be a Royal Commission into what happened in the last three years.
Unfortunately our government will strongly discourage this and do everything in their power to not be held
accountable, as they can never admit that they made a mistake, lest they be sued for millions and millions of dollars.
Direct evidence of this is when the NSW government tried to pass a bill last year, directing that all companies on
whom the government put pressure who in turn mandated the jabs to their employees, should compensate their
employees who received adverse effects from the jabs, for the rest of their lives, even though they might no longer
work for the company. What a massive cop out by the NSW government and proof/admission that the government
was trying to pass the buck for something that was far worse and far reaching than what they could ever have
imagined, in so many people dying and being affected by the jabs. The affects are still continuing to this very day.
Not to mention the metal illnesses that were directly caused by the lock downs and now proving to be a way larger
problem, costing the government millions of dollars.



The only responsible thing for the government to do now, is to allow a Royal Commission hearing into what
happened and why it happened, to prevent such a catastrophe from ever happening again, in allowing a foreign
body (WHO), (who are a law unto themselves with no authority except which is given to them by undiscerning
governments and mostly funded by non-medical interests) to dictate what should and shouldn't happen in what
was, our great country of Australia.
