To Whom it May Concern,

I am a Registered Nurse and Nurse Vaccinator in Queensland and                                    I was
involved in the rollout of the Queensland Covid vaccination program.

At the time I was informed that the vaccines were safe and effective and that to prevent further
harm to the community our best chance was to vaccinate and be vaccinated with the Covid-19
mRNA vaccines.

It has since come to light that serious harms have occurred to people including stroke, heart attack,
and death, plus many others. In fact excess deaths continue currently, picking up dramatically after
the rollout of the vaccine program.

It is my understanding that 1 in every 800 people suffered a 'severe adverse event' from the
vaccines. Having given around 2100 vaccines personally during the three months I was with the
program, and mixed and prepared a significant amount myself, it weighs heavy on my mind and
heart that I have given a vaccine that could have killed at least two of my patients, including pregnant
or breast -feeding mums.

It was never my intent to do harm, as a registered nurse it is my role to prevent harm and provide the
best healthcare I can to my patients with the aim of relieving and preventing suffering. Based on the
guidelines and information I was given by the Australian Government, Queensland State Government
The TGA, The WHO and ATAGI I was doing the best thing I could and giving a vaccine that would help
save lives, not cost them.

I request that in this enquiry consideration is given to the mental health of all clinicians involved who
have given what turned out to be a harmful vaccine on the lie that it would be beneficial to people.

Another issue I'd like to raise is the compulsory nature of the vaccine. As a healthcare worker I was
required to be vaccinated myself to work. I need to have a job for income like most people in this
country, and so I too took these vaccines believing them to be beneficial. I should note that the
vaccine didn't work because within one month of getting my third shot I contracted Covid myself. I
say didn't work because I've received a lot of vaccines and never developed those diseases, for
example Hep A and B, Tetanus, MMR to name a few. These traditional vaccines have worked and I've
never developed those diseases, but the Covid mRNA vaccine was ineffective and I must say it's the
sickest I've ever been as far as I can remember.

Lastly I ask that justice be done. That the people involved in creating this virus, and profiting off the
harmful vaccine be trialled and jailed. They are criminals guilty of heinous crimes against humanity.
They have lied to everyone and made money from their suffering, and worse they've employed quite
unwillingly and unknowingly the very people who sought to help the sick and soothe them in their
time of need. There is no greater evil.

They must be held to account, and they will be held to account, in this life or the next.

God himself will hold these people and those who refused to stop them to account.

Yours Sincerely,
