My name is|was a fit and healthy                             elf-employed electrician prior to            November 2021,
when I received my AstraZeneca Covid vaccine shot. One shot of AstraZeneca was all it took to leave me with the ongoing
life altering injuries of myopericarditis and sarcoidosis. To clarify, I'm not an "anti-vaxxer" I've had every vaccine in the
past without any complaint.

After reports of the serious side effects in the media, and personally speaking with several of my friends and
acquaintances that had serious side effects from heart issues to golf ball sized lymph node inflammation requiring
emergency department visits, I was concerned and very hesitant to 'roll up my sleeve' and comply. I took the time to
research the vaccinations and discussed my concerns with medical professionals I trusted. They warned me of the
frequency of the serious side effects and adverse reactions they had observed, and privately recommended that I avoid it
if possible. I attempted to get an exemption from my general practitioner in October 2021. My exemption request was
denied. I did not freely consent to having the vaccine. I was coerced.

Informed consent must be given for all medical treatments. This is defined as follows by the Victorian State Government
(taken from the Victorian Department of Health website1)

         "The informed consent of a person must be sought before they are given any treatment or medical treatment
         under the Act. This includes giving treatment to a person who is subject to an order authorising compulsory
         assessment or treatment.

         A person gives informed consent if they:

             •    have capacity to give informed consent
             •    have been given adeguate information to enable them to make an informed decision
             •    have been given a reasonable opportunity to decide whether or not to consent
             •    have given consent freely without undue pressure or coercion
             •    have not withdrawn consent or indicated any intention to withdraw consent"

Coercion is not consent, and people should always have a right to refuse medical treatments without punishment of loss
of employment, especially in the case of an experimental vaccine. It was impossible for the government to provide
"adequate information" for people to give their informed consent, as the vaccines were rushed to market without long­
term risk information available. We were all learning the risks as more people were being vaccinated. We knew before
the rollout started in Australia that these vaccines did not, and could not "stop the spread". With hospitals overflowing
with people suffering from COVID, the claims of severe disease reduction were also questionable.

Having a State of Emergency declaration should never be an excuse to ignore basic medical principles. If I had been given
the chance to refuse treatment, without business and financial consequences, I would be completely healthy right now. I
would be able to run my business and live a normal life. You have taken my health and freedom from me with your ill-
informed decisions. All decision makers need to be held immediately accountable for the ongoing harm and destruction
caused to so many lives. The display of authoritarian governance from multiple states, ultimately permitted to continue
by the federal government was disgusting, and should never have been permitted. Never forget the man that chose
suicide on a building site in Melbourne due to the government overreach and the union's lack of action2. It is likely that
he wasn't the only one that made that decision. People need to be held accountable for pushing this man to take his life.

With all the reports of injuries ranging from blood clots, heart, neurological, autoimmune complications and death, I did
not want to be forced into taking the vaccine. I held off as long as I could, hoping Victoria's rules would match NSW,
where my industry was not being forced into vaccination. I was finally pushed to submit to the coercion when my
customers started to cancel my work, due to the vaccine mandate. My choice was between literally 'picking my poison' or
losing my business, which I had worked for nearly a decade to build. If I could go back in time, I would sell my car and just
wait out the time until the vaccine mandate was dropped. Of course, I could not see into the future and I was coerced to
take the vaccine, forever altering my health, my business and my future. My cardiologist has linked my injury directly to
the vaccine. The infectious disease specialist I saw also agreed and linked my injury to the AZ vaccine. I will never forgive
the government both past and present for what has happened to me, and their complete lack of accountability or care
following my injury.

As a result of "doing the right thing", I have had the following unwanted expenses and medical treatments:
     •        Cardiologist appointments
     •        Respiratory specialist appointments
     •        ID specialist appointment
     •        Multiple blood tests
     •        CT scans
     •        Holter monitors
     •        Echocardiograms
    •         MRI
    •         PET scan
    •         Lymph-node biopsy
    •         Ongoing medications
    •         Selling my car, and not being able to do light work more than a few days a month now.

My out-of-pocket medical expense tally is over $7000 so far. 'Safe and effective' is only an accurate statement for this
vaccine's ability to destroy my once good health, finances and career. Not to mention the lost income and turnover from
my previously successful business.

My injury started with symptoms of chest pain, lethargy and feeling faint three days after receiving the vaccine. I was
unable to exert myself and barely able to walk without experiencing severe pain and feeling that I would pass out. I had
constant stabbing chest pains like someone was sticking a knife into my heart. Standing up required someone nearby to
make sure I didn't pass out, often I needed to lean on someone or something to walk. Sitting without my legs elevated
made me light headed, numb and dizzy within seconds. I am grateful that I was able to get an appointment with my
cardiologist soon after my symptoms began and she prescribed me medications to protect my heart from further
damage. Without her expertise, my outcome may have been far worse.
I had (still unexplained) events where my body went numb from head to foot, which on one occasion resulted in me
being taken to hospital by ambulance. At the emergency department, the doctors were not able to give an explanation as
to why this was happening. Over time, I learned that when I felt the numbness starting, I needed to just sit or lay quietly
and not move or talk to prevent it from worsening. Thankfully, I now only have occasional lip and face numbness/tingling
when having conversations, usually coinciding with episodes of more severe chest pain. The ongoing symptoms of
constant chest pain, high blood pressure and severe stabbing pains after exercise, or basic chores around the house still
plague my life. Though, thankfully, the severe stabbing pain has reduced in frequency since I am limiting my exertion and
exercise. The constant dull pain still is there every day. When my chest pain worsens, the only thing that helps is resting
reclined for 3-4 days to let it settle. How can anyone be expected to hold a down a regular job with these ongoing side
effects?

My goals of returning to my trade or running my own business are a distant dream at this point in time. I was forced to
sell my work car earlier this year to fund my recovery. Even if I found a treatment that worked, I wouldn't be able to
restart my business without major financial outlay that I wouldn't be eligible to get a loan for. The damage this vaccine,
the incompetent governments and people controlling the compensation scheme have caused is serious and ongoing to
my health, personal life, finances and career. My wife and I were planning to start a family before I got sick, but that is
sadly no longer in our foreseeable future. I am unable to support our mortgage, never mind the other costs involved in
raising children. It is likely that I will need to retrain and start a new career.

With help from my local MP, I have attempted on numerous occasions to get assistance from the TGA, health
department, and several members of the government including MP Mark Butler and PM Anthony Albanese. These
appeals have fallen on incompetent, ignorant, deaf ears. It has taken several weeks, and sometimes months, for them to
respond each time. The have all responded similarly, claiming that they are unable to update the Product Information as
there isn't enough published evidence to link my diagnosed illness with the AstraZeneca vaccine. This is often followed by
a comment that TGA is monitoring the reports and is following up with any safety concerns. Not surprisingly, ATAGI
publicly publish a myocarditis/pericarditis treatment guideline3 that explicitly states the known occurrence of
myocarditis/pericarditis as an adverse reaction to AstraZeneca. The incompetent clowns that run the health department
can't even read their own treatment guidelines to update their policies to match reality and help the injured victims.

From page seven of the ATAGI document3:
        "Can AstraZeneca cause myocarditis or pericarditis? There is a small risk of myocarditis and/or pericarditis
       following AstraZeneca. This risk is lower than following an mRNA vaccine. A UK study in December 2021 found
        the risk was highest in men under 40 years of age at 8-14 days after dose 2 (estimated excess of 14 cases per
        million doses (95% Cl 8-17)).3 UK Yellow Card reports also indicate a risk in young adults (18-29 years) as 10 per
        million doses after dose one and 16 per million after dose two."

As a person that has submitted information into the DAEN register, there has been no follow-ups, not even a simple
phone call or email to check on my recovery. There is no possible way that the TGA know the severity or ongoing nature
of the injuries, without following up with each report. This is the same story from all of the vaccine injured people that I
have communicated with. Their claims of thorough safety monitoring are misleading and, in my opinion, inaccurate to say
the least. 317 people, like myself, submitted their AZ myocarditis/pericarditis injuries to the DAEN register. The same
register that the TGA is meant to monitor to inform the public of risks.
The same register that after only approximately 50 reported cases of myocarditis/pericarditis from Novavax, resulted in
Novavax adding the risk of myocarditis/pericarditis to their product sheet. How can these departments be allowed to
ignore 317 people that have these life-altering conditions as a result of their AZ vaccinations, while acknowledging the
injuries of just over 50 others that took a different vaccine. The same damage was caused and the same compensation
should be available to all injured individuals.

Something is seriously rotten in this government and the health department. The TGA needs serious reform to make
them work for the people rather than their 'sponsors' as they currently do. Gaslighting and collecting money from
sponsors, seems to be all they are proficient at. This current vaccine compensation scheme needs immediate policy
change to fit the reality, range and severity of conditions that truly exist. Not the pipedream limited range of conditions
the government and TGA wish to cover to suit their pre-determined outcome of limited payouts that they want to portray
at the end of this. The continued Australian Government and Health Department approved destruction of vaccine injured
people's lives is a disgrace to say the least.

Over 10,000 initial applicants signed up to the compensation scheme, around 4000 submitted the claim paperwork
including me. I received a recommendation to withdraw my application based on the fact that it would be rejected due to
myopericarditis not being a recognised injury from the AZ vaccine, and this would preclude me from ever applying again.
Only a few hundred compensation payouts have been made to date, this is not ok. Claims are taking years to be
processed, with many reporting a pittance of an offer at the end if they are lucky enough not to be denied. The health
department still claim they "have done this to provide a simple, streamlined process to compensate eligible people,
without the need for complex legal proceedings." 4

YOU NEED TO FIX THIS IMMEDIATELY, WITHOUT ANY MORE NEEDLESS DELAYS, PEOPLE ARE UNNECESSARILY SUFFERING.

To say the TGA, government and health department have failed the vaccine injured is an understatement. These
departments do not deserve their tax payer funding without major changes in favour of the people they are meant to
represent. Rather than representing the companies that fund over 92% of their operations. Their conflict of interest is
evident when it comes to the treatment and ignorance surrounding the vaccine injured community. 'Forgotten' and
'overlooked' vaccine injured people, like m, need serious and immediate help from all members of Parliament to work to
change the compensation policy to actually help the injured, and not continue to put roadblocks in our way.

The toothless COVID inquiry is yet another waste of taxpayer money. Without a thorough investigation of the handling of
all decisions, the government will never learn from many mistakes that they have made, and will not be able to prevent
future unnecessary damage such as the injury that was forced upon me. People have been killed and seriously physically
harmed as a result of their vaccine injuries, and like me, still have no avenue for assistance under the current substandard
policies that exist. The same issue that I am experiencing stands in the way of many vaccine injured people. Their
conditions aren't recognised by the compensation scheme's current limited list of approved conditions.


The public are being misled and the misinformation the government and TGA are spreading about safety and side effects
needs to be openly discussed. Again, I call on all members of Parliament to immediately update the compensation policy
to reflect the true range of injuries that have impacted far too many Australians, rather than continuing to do the bidding
for the multinational corporations that have caused this damage to us.

Thank you for taking the time to read this, I hope the next communication I receive from the government isn't many
weeks away, and with some real action to solve the heartless damage caused to my life.

Regards,




Information taken from:

1https://www, health, vic.gov.au/mental-health-and-wellbeing-act-handbook/supported-decision-making/informed-
consent-and-presum ption

2 https://7news.com.au/news/vic/mans-body-found-at-melbourne-worksite-hours-after-construction-shutdown-
a: < r; c■ c e: e: • - c-40246 7 6

3 https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/ll/covid-19-vaccination-guidance-on-myocarditis-and-
pericarditis-after-covid-19-vaccines.pdf

4 https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccine-claims-scheme
