As a secondary teacher with children                          I had been forced to stay home
on 3 separate occasions as a close contact, using up all of my sick pay. In^^^^Heducation,
we had to use up all of our sick pay, then our long service leave, before being able to access
paid pandemic leave. It is difficult to understand why when state school teachers didn't
have to do this. So when I did get covid,                I had run out of sick pay and had to go
back to work before I was fully recovered. I was incredibly fatigued and spent all of my time
in bed except for my working hours for four months.                   I got covid again and
again had little time to recover at home. After that I felt shortness of breath and extreme
fa t i g u e
                                   started to get sick every^^^^^^^^|sick enough to
have to stay in bed for at least seven days at a time this was very debilitating and depleting.

                                    caught covid again in           I have been unable to
return to work. I have been to four GP's, a rheumatologist and naturopath and had
acupuncture, osteopathy, bioresonance and spent thousands of dollars on supplements and
medications.

 I have had very little support from my workplace and the community. I learned all I could
about long covid and its treatments from social media as peer reviewed articles are difficult
to find. Many doctors and specialists were dismissive and this was very stressful; it took^^|
GPS before I finally found one who ddiagnose me with long covid^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
^^^^even though my symptoms were very common and all of the symptoms started after
I first got covid. The lack of support and understanding has been very stressful. There are
many people who have lost their jobs and who didn't have income protection, they're
suffering even more. There are also many children who are suffering from this condition. It
is disheartening to go to the doctors and see that nobody is wearing a mask, this is very
inconsiderate towards people who have a weakened immune system. The same thing
happens at the shops: sick people coughing and sneezing without wearing a mask. People
should be asked to wear a mask in healthcare settings and crowded indoor places if they are
sick or symptomatic - this is because covid is still circulating and the more times you get
infected the more likely you are to develop complications. 9.5 million people in the United
States have long covid. There are more and more joining the facegroup books every week.
The wait times for Clinic 19 has exploeded. They can't keep up with demand. They need to
be able to be kept as telehealth for people who can't travel to see them.

We need GP's to be trained to be alert for the symptoms of long covid so that people can
get timely support. Their needs to be a National Register of practitioners who have
experience and knowledge in treating long covid patients, workplaces need to be made
aware of the prevalence of long covid so that staff can be supported to recover fully and
adjustments can be made for the and schools also need to understand that many children
as suffering from long COVID and they too need to be supported as well as their families.

 Forcing teachers to go back to work when everyone else except health care workers were
asked to stay home and stay safe is something that made us feel totally expendable. As
teachers we have record numbers of staff going on leave or resigning because they are
utterly exhausted more research needs to be done on the biomedical level building on
research that has already been completed overseas. We need 2 develop new guidelines on
how to treat long covered based on clinical trials that have already happened overseas.

I can also say that the best treatments for^^| has been taking Hl and H2 antihistamines,
Low dose naltrexone and a low histamine diet. Patanol eyedrops have been good for brain
fog and CBD oil has been good for sleep. A lot of people develop leaky gut and there are
supplements and dietary guidelines that can help with this. Traditional Chinese medicine
seems to help a lot of people as they have a very long history of treating post viral illness, as
do naturopaths. There are other mast cell stabilisers that have worked like nigella sativa.
Nattokinase and serrapeptase have been good in breaking down the amyloid fibrin
microclots. CoQlO is great for fatigue and Vitamin TTFD Bl and nicotinic acid have been
really good for fatigue as well. Vitamin D and C are essential. A very high protein diet helps.
Getting morning sun is important, grounding, IR saunas, cold water therapy, HELP apheresis,
I VIG therapy, all have shown good results in many patients. GPs should have all this
information in their arsenal.
