                    SUBMISSIONS FOR COVID 19 ENQIRY




I wish to outline some things that are seriously wrong with the handling of the Covid response.

I am retired so I have been fortunate enough to be able to not be affected by the ridiculous
mandates that were imposed on multiple industries in Australia. I was working in the Mining industry
(in WA to start with) then relocated to Old to work in the coal industry as                       We
were classed as an "essential service" so I was not affected by ridiculous lockdowns which only
proved to be destructive to many peoples mental health! My line in the sand was when they decided
to bring in mandates to the mining industry, I would walk away from my job.

I was not going to participate in what Greg Hunt referred to as "the worlds largest clinical trial". I
worked in the pharmaceutical industry for 33 years prior to my mining role and I knew how corrupt
these people were. I had also been following the effects of the injections on the countries overseas
who had been subjected to this poison! Alarm bells were ringing when they had not conducted any
double blind placebo controlled trials. I was a medical rep for several years so I knew this was going
to end badly. The other things that were obvious were the restriction of the Nobel prize winning
product Ivermectin.... Being now referred to as nothing but "horse paste". The government bodies ie
Aprha and the TGA who are 97% funded by Pfizer which I feel is a MAJOR CONFLICT OF INTEREST to
say the least!

The silencing of doctors and defaming of anyone who spoke against the government narrative was
also another red flag. Doctors were struck off and are still unable to work because they spoke out.
Aprha also sent a letter to doctors stating they were not to speak anything bad against the jabs, even
though I feel many of them would be witnessing the in numerous side effects that were now
appearing in many people. The other things that stood out to me were the fact that there was no
mention of any side effects by Main Stream Media ... we all now know that they were effectively paid
hush money and were now just a mouth piece for the Government. I'm pretty sure you people thing
we are all stupid... we are all still being gaslit on a daily basis.

Just an example of the gaslighting and censorship that is happening, there is a whistleblower in New
Zealand who was the ONLY STATISTICIAN for the government over there and was arrested for
exposing the HUGE NUMBER OF DEATHS in NZ. This is not only happening there but in many
countries around the world. You are ALL IN LOCKSTEP with each other. The excess death rates in
EVERY WESTERN COUNTRY in the world is staggering! Yet NO ONE WANTS TO DISCUSS THIS!!

I am pessimistically hoping that this "committee" will address some of these things but I am not
hopeful. The CHOs have ALL GOT BLOOD ON THEIR HANDS AS HAVE THE PREMIERS OF EVERY STATE...
THUSTHAT'S WHY THE ONES WHO WERE IN POWER AT THE START OF THE PLANDEMIC HAVE NOW
ALL RESIGNED .... WHAT A COINCIDENCE HEY?




I feel this will be a toothless tiger as the real science behind this plandemic has been ignored and
debunked. The REAL culprits are going to get off SCOTT FREE as are the Big Pharma Companies who .
have been given COMPLETE INDEMNITY which, in my mind, is YET another red flag that is being
ignored. The worst is yet to come as more people will die due to the now exposing of the contents of
these so called ' vaccines" which they are NOT. The contents contained SV40 which has been
identified as the cause of what are now being called "turbo cancers". I have three friends who are at
various stages of aggressive cancers. I also lost my sister last year to a                    but I
feel she had                         She had been jabbec^times and of course no autopsies are

generally not being performed as I'm pretty sure that it would expose what you people don't want
coming out! She was only^^ears old. Her husband is heartbroken as are all her siblings (there are 6
°f us)Jhave been jabbed and the other^^Hhave not been. We also had a segregated Christmas
two years ago which was positively heart breaking as it would have been the last Xmas we all could
have had with out deceased sister.... Our mother who is^jyears old has had a^^^^not long after
her 3rd jab and now cant speak properly. The other jabbed siblings have now ALL GOT
^^^^^^OR^^^PROBLEMS...




Anyway, I hope you will look at my submission and stop the nonsense that happened with this
pandemic and promise that you wont try doing these things when the next one happens.... We ALL
know it is coming as the WHO want to take over the complete control of our health in this country
and the world.... I am more concerned about that more than another dose of this rubbish! I have
done a submission to exit the WHO And the WEF. We are watching EVERY MOVE YOU ALL MAKE....
