My name is                           My husband and I have two children. One primary school
aged, and one due to start school in a year.

I am furious at National Cabinet’s many decisions to gradually strip away Covid health
measures and reporting. I don’t see any point in politely toeing around how disgusted I am
that my govt is getting away with mass harm, and negligent deaths. And we need more
people calling this for what it is.

National Cabinet is resolved to a vaccine-only strategy with vaccines that are not able to
sufficiently prevent known longterm harm, are not being kept up-to-date in a timely manner
(like USA, Canada, etc), are not being offered with enough frequency, and are denied to
some age groups entirely -despite USA offering vaccines for ages 6 months and up.

I am tired of being lied to (directly or by omission/misleading/ignorance) that Covid is not
airborne, that appropriate masks don’t work, that we will have herd immunity, then rich
hybrid-immunity, a mild course of illness that fully resolves for the vaccinated or young, that
this is our “exit wave”, schools are not major contributors of covid transmission, that Covid
will become seasonal, that we can expect smaller waves in the future (ignoring we now have
a raised tide of Covid ALL the time), etc.

I’m tired of QLD Health having been allowed to blame Long Covid on the nocebo effect
without any repercussions. It’s a blatant and staggering betrayal of the public, and goes
against mountains of medical studies.

As a well-informed person, the deliberately downplayed risk of Covid harm has led to brutal
levels of social rejection and further infections. Protecting yourself is seen as shameful and
weak, even for those who are especially vulnerable.

I have had to pull my child out of school due to the lack of clean air measures and
nonchalance around infection. We have been homeschooling for 2 years, and are about to
start homeschooling my youngest, whose whole life has been one of increasing restrictions
and isolation to avoid evidenced medical harm, while we wait for the govt to be completely
out of options in ignoring harm, and restricting access to the evidence of harm (covid
hospitalisation data, hospital acquired infections, evidence and advice presented at National
Cabinet, etc.)

Appropriate responses to the danger posed by multiple Covid infections a year -with no in
sight (as a political choice)- are constantly portrayed as anxious and over the top. It is so bad
that none of us, baring the especially privileged, can go to the hospital without risk of being
roomed with a confirmed Covid positive patient, and not even told about it.

Some medical staff have apparently been told not to test themselves, or wear n95 masks.
They are maligned for taking time off when sick, since our hospitals are under strain. They
are made complicit in policy that sickens their patients and each other.

And then there are other staff don’t want to mask or test at all by choice, despite knowing
we’re in a pandemic, because they say the patients would rather see their face and take the
risk. Yet I know so many people who are afraid to get medical help. Really afraid. And
despite a patient asking them to mask, many employees in positions of care have refused.
This is not about patient comfort.
I also have two family members that were horribly sickened (life threatening) by hospital
acquired infections prior to Covid. Infection controls failed.

Currently there is a willingness to endanger people in full knowledge there are NOT
appropriate infection control protocols in place. I can’t see this deliberate choice to not
introduce appropriate protocols, while we have an active pandemic declaration from WHO,
as anything but contemptuous to human life.

Some high-profile doctors have openly made a mockery of mask-wearing and the use of
HEPA filters by patients. It is not acceptable that vulnerable people are afraid of those that
should be helping them, and then also mocked for it.

This is squarely my government’s fault. This is the natural consequence to minimising
serious pandemic disease: society-wide denial, ignorance and bullying -even amongst
medical professionals, and some government members.

And further, it’s hard not to assume the government intended or accepted this would be the
result of their policy choices and messaging, to force social conformity and have the public
resume normal economic activities.

There has been so much eroded trust with the public. Govt needs to admit that it’s made some
bad decisions and hold those decision makers accountable. Govt must be honest with the
public that this has happened, as it will take big gestures to gain any public trust back.
National Cabinet secrecy should be abolished. The public deserves to be privy to the data
their health is being potentially jeopardised for.
Information presented to the public must be backed by multiple referenced studies, so it is
clear that advice given is based on well-sourced and reputable findings, and is not a result of
arrogance, callous indifference, sunk-cost fallacy, optimism bias, or any bias that
disproportionately prioritises economic interests ahead people.

Employers, schools, care facilities, etc, should have an obligation to provide a safe space.

This means sick people should be encouraged to test and stay home until they are not
contagious. Sick leave should be sufficient to cover our new burden of illness.

Employees should not feel obligated to attend unmasked work, or work conferences, dinners,
etc, where minimal or no mitigations are in place. Wearing a mask and losing job
opportunities should be viewed as discrimination and treated accordingly.

Parents should not be pressured to send sick kids to school or send their kids into classrooms
with known cases of highly contagious illnesses. Parents should be notified of contagious
disease in their child’s class. Reasonable illness absences during periods of high illness
burden in the community, should not affect a school’s securing of govt support.

Workplaces, schools, care facilities, etc, should have clean air strategies -including
ventilation and HEPA filtering- and display their CO2 monitoring so that those in attendance
can make informed choices.
Masking with appropriate masks, not surgical masks, should be mandatory in medical
settings ongoing. Covid has taught us that we have underestimated airborne spread of many
illnesses.

The government must seek better health advice that is in keeping with the latest medical
discoveries on Covid, and removing those who have consistently misled, or acted against
those findings.

All people should be made aware they are vulnerable to long covid, and further diseases
subsequent to their covid infections, and that these risks increase with every Covid
reinfection. Additionally, they should be informed that there may acquire ongoing viral
persistence long after having a detectable case of Covid on RAT or PCR.

They should be well-informed that Long Covid and Covid harm is very real, and that while
Long Covid risk increases with severity, most Long Covid cases are from mild infections.

Mask education should be made more of a priority, including public acceptance and
inclusion.

We must dramatically increase funding for Covid research, including neutralising vaccines
and medical research and support for Long Covid. We need to prepare for the additional
demand on our medical systems from new diseases subsequent to Covid infections, as well as
long term unemployment strain due to longterm illness and carer duties.
We must ensure people with longterm illness are not forced into work where they are not
capable, worsening their health outcomes. They must have adequate financial support.
Vaccines should at least keep pace with USA’s vaccine releases, and should be available at 6
monthly intervals until a longer lasting option for vaccine efficacy becomes available. They
must be made available to everyone where the supporting evidence indicates benefit, and
acknowledging in those benefit calculations, that hospitalisation and death are not the only
critical outcomes of Covid.
I am writing this because I believe there is hope for change, though it’s a hard road back for
the government to rescue its integrity. And the longer this situation is allowed to continue, the
greater the fallout will be for government in terms of costs, and public anger. The public have
every right to be extremely angry, and must be allowed to express it.
Please help rescue a future where ongoing sickness is not the norm, because our trajectory
now is extremely grim. We cannot expect that problems will resolve themselves, and we need
a lot of objective honesty about that.


Thank you.
