Commonwealth Government Covid Response Inquiry
Governance, including roles and responsibilities

At the beginning of the covid outbreak, the Government did not follow its own carefully thought
through plan for a pandemic. It is ridiculous to spend a great deal of time and effort, by
professionals, by medical people, who have gained from the wisdom and experience of decades, to
then completely ignore it all. The government acted in an immature and ignorant fashion, following
the foolish ways of other countries, instead of acting scientifically and sensibly.

All we need to do was boost people's immune system. That means fresh air, exercise sunshine, extra
vitamins - nothing too difficult.

People thrive when they are with others who love them and care for them. They die when taken
away from loved ones and looked after by strangers. No-one should ever be separated from loved
ones, unless it is their choice. In this the Commonwealth Government was cruel to its own people.

No-one should be stopped from having their wedding or other important family occasions, like the
birth of a child, or even a funeral, unless it is their own decision to stay away. The Commonwealth
Government should have overridden the states in these matters to protect and nurture Australian.
We are Australians before we are New south Welshman, or any other state!

Professionals who know and understand were saying all we need to do is isolate the vulnerable, not
the whole of society. People under 80 who were healthy were never at risk. Look at the statistics, you
have them all at your fingertips, no more people died in the fiist year of the pandemic than in the
year before. People were not vaccinated but not many died. The ones who died were sadly given the
wrong treatment.

The Commonwealth Government squandered billions of dollars. They destroyed what was a healthy
economy and have ruined the futures of our people for decades to come. They bought far too many
"Vaccinations" and had to destroy millions. They bought an untested and unproven product - who
does that? Not sensible people, not a sensible government. They did not even check the production
or safety, they just took the manufacturers word for it and then said "If they harm people or don't
even help people, its all right, you wont suffer any repercussions". Who in their right mind would cut
a deal like that? They followed the advice of the TGA. The TGA is mostly funded by pharmaceutical
companies and are completely biased.

There are many people who have been killed and harmed by the "vaccinations" but the government
has never entered into serious enquiry. If they really were concerned about the many reports coming
in from other countries by highly qualified professionals, warning of harm now and in time to come,
they would have halted the vaccinations for a time and they certainly would have carried out
autopsies on people who died after vaccination. Why were no autopsies carried out on hundreds of
people who died, when that is standard practice when anyone dies and the cause is not known for
sure.

The Commonwealth Government t must look after the health and well being of its people, and must
override the States when they do not act wisely and fairly. The Commonweath Government should
especially be protecting the young, who suffered the worst abuse and harm. Not only getting
injections they did not need, but missing out on essential education and crucial interaction with
family and friends. The wearing of masks was ludicrous and damaging for all, there are 50 studies by
professiona s with all the proof, easy to find, which show the masks are actually unhealthy - we all
have the right o fresh clean air surely?! Not stale air that has been recycled for hours on end, causing
headaches and respiratory distress. And for children, missing on the unobstructed view of people,
who are not just a set of eyes!

The Commonwealth Government paid people to stay home. They paid lots of people more to stay
home than they ever earned when working. There was no need for lockdowns, there was no need
for workers to stay home, for children to suffer, for our lives to grind to a halt. The Commonwealth
Government should not have that power! That power is only to be used for criminals to protect
others from crime. We, the people of Australia, must be allowed to live our own lives and make out
own decisions when it comes to health and our own families.

The very worst thing about every terrible law and mistake the Government hastily brought in, was
that I now do not trust the government at all. My life will never be the same. I do not trust the press
either, because they followed what the government told them, and kept the truth from us about
what was happening in our own country and other countries. The Government acted like^^^^^|
            not acting for the good of the people but doing what ever they wanted to, without ever
giving us proof or explaining why. And they manipulated the feelings of the people by making them
so afraid, they couldn't do anything and think for themselves but follow like blind sheep, for the most
part. The government used emotionally charged advertising and many other means to force people
to comply.

I could go on for pages, but I suspect no-one will read this or take any of it seriously. The worst thing
for the future is our government seems happy to throw us all to the wolves and just let the WHO tell
us all what we can and cant do in our own country. The WHO who said that masks are not useful, and
who said that isolating is not the best protocol for a pandemic, and then changed their mind. The
WHO which is funded by Bill Gates and others who have their own agenda, unelected people with a
lot of money and power - these are the people who will be telling Australians how they must live
and act - unless our Government finally finds some courage and wisdom to do what is best for our
own country and people.

Yours sincerely
