Covid Enquiry

Thankyou for allowing people to have their say and I would like you to also acknowledge that the Terms
of Reference were narrowed down to a point that makes it quite useless The Covid Response was
anything but a methodical and steady minded and calm response, it was continuous callouts of fear on
the media, lockdowns, mask mandates, cant see your families, in that time so many small businesses
closed because of the severity of the lockdowns, suicides went up, everyone's mental health was
devastated by the overreaches of power, there are so many other examples of senseless impositions I
could include but it would lengthen this Submission substantially so here is an example of how my family
was affected.

We were impacted heavily and lost our jobs I worked as an Education Support in a local primary school, I
loved working there before Covid, it became and was a very stressful time through 2020 and 2021
leading up to my dismissal^^^^^^^^H ' sti" have not gained employment to this day which has
placed stress on our family as my husband is also looking for work all this time after the dismissal, the
way it was done it was an utter betrayal of trust of the employer to employee, they knew it was wrong
to do what they did and did not allow us to go back to work. The betrayal that myself and fellow
Australians felt sends shivers to the spine. We will not forget how easy people turned on others because
they were just doing their job. How silently this continues, its beyond belief. Lockdowns affected my
family. My Mum was in Respite Aged Care , we could not see her very often, it was hell on earth for my
Mum as family was very important to her and she missed us as we missed her, you can never get that
time back. She has since passed away. The whole covid response was way over the top and it is now
showing that the vaccine was not stopping transmission, and not stopping people from getting sick. I am
calling for a Royal Commission that looks deeper into vaccine procurement and secret contracts; PCR
tests, RAT tests, mask mandates; lock downs; vaccine mandates, stopping children going to playgrounds,
stopping people from going to the beach outdoors official misinformation and lies in the media regarding
the ability of vaccines to block transmission, vaccine injuries; media censorship, silencing of doctors, the
role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors, we need a thorough investigation
that only a fully transparent and binding Royal Commission can give.
