                   COVID-19 Response Inquiry Submission

Term of reference addressed:

    •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
        and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
        National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee)
        and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

In order to fully understand and improve and truly understand how to have better governance
mechanisms for this type of thing in the future is vital to conduct a full Royal Commission into the
Covid response.

Good governance comes from transparent practices. This critical area was very much deficient in
relation to disclosure of the science, and empirical basis behind Vaccine mandates, Mask mandates
and Lockdowns, as well as a broad range of other elements in the Covid response.

AHPRA's lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the vaccine and their
action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession, along with Vaccine procurement and
secret vaccine contracts is a critical area to be openly investigated if we are to have a better
response and outcome in the future. The doctor patient relationship has been significantly damaged
in the public eye and that eroded trust will be a deficiency that will be carried forward unless AHPRA
is fully investigated and findings published openly.

All decision making must be backed by open and fully transparent communication of the basis of the
decision. The implication of all things Covid were such that people needed full information to best
understand and process what was being asked or implemented. This was the responsibility of all
levels of government and area that they failed miserably. Availability to the public of National
Cabinet minutes and the "walking back" of the government's commitment to make them public
served only to build distrust of any official message.

Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection and
transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured is another prime
example. Much of what was labelled "misinformation or disinformation" by government members
and bureaucrats at the height of the Covid scenario, was proven to be true only months later, and
showed that both government agency and media had it wrong.

A key question to be answered by any inquiry is did they get it wrong because they are incompetent,
or is there some other reason as to why those with access to the "science" managed to not only
communicate inaccurate information, but adversely impacted lives of the general populous by their
actions. Either way, there have been major ramifications for the Australian public and the country
that demand deep examination and accountability.

Trust in government and the agencies that were involved, as well as the media has been eroded
severely. If there is to be an ability to operate from a much-improved position in the future, then
public trust in government and its agencies must be restored and a vital element to restoring the
Australian public's trust is a full and transparent examination of the underlying motives and
reasoning of how and why government, and government agencies made the decisions they did, as
well as the actions that flowed from those decisions, that ultimately impacted the Australian public.
All of this must be done with the strongest level of legal authority and can only be delivered through
a Royal Commission.
