It is likely that the people reading this (if any) will have been heavily biased due to their vaccination
status, and will be compelled to discard this text. To the reader I say this beyond all -1 hope you have
realized your mistake (taking the experimental MRNA shot), and stopped taking boosters to save
yourself from imminent heart diseases, turbo cancer etc which has increased mortality rate by order of
magnitude in last few years.

If you don’t know what the side effects of these MRNA products, do your own research and decide
whether you want to endanger yourself anymore than you already have.

The governing bodies in Australia have failed due to important people lying about the vaccines being
safe and effective. Some of these people knowingly harmed people by either keeping quiet OR straight
out lying.

Because of the fear mongering, people and corporations started to mandate the jab. The jab mandates
resulted in my loss of employment (no jab no job). We are waiting on a class action lawsuit to pass,
hopefully more and more lawsuits will pile up to assist people, accountability must be held.

My job could be successfully done by working from home, or they could have stood people down with
pay or let them take their accrued leave. There was never a need to sack anyone for either exercising
their right to free and informed consent, or for exercising their right to medical privacy.

The federal government could have responded to put a stop to the wholly unethical and unnecessary jab
mandates and their devastating consequences on workers by voting in favour of amending various laws
to protect the workers (in fact several proposals were put fourth in 2021 and 2022 by One Nation, Craig
Kelly and others for this purpose, however both Labor (shamefully) and LNP voted together against
those proposals).

Furthermore, the federal government could have not directly enabled the enforcement of jab mandates
if they had declined sharing certain data with the states and they could have not created the covid 19
digital certificates (or jab passes).
