Submission into the Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response inquiry

Firstly, I like most of the country need to see a Royal Commission into the Covid-19 response that allows an
examination of both Federal as well as State and Territory governments response to Covid. There should be no
limits on the examination of what was a classified pandemic that our laws and system of governments were
turned upside down for over a period of 3 years. If we can have a royal commission into Robodebt, which I
believe was appropriate given how many died in that scandal, then we most certainly can have one for the
classified covid pandemic where so many more died, and many are still feeling the impacts from the
governments response. It is simply unacceptable that this belated inquiry is made without proper reference to
the far reaching impact it had on the lives of everyday people living in Australia. Without a royal commission
about the actions taken by Governments across Australia we can never have a proper examination of the
evidence to determine the failure of the Covid era policies adopted. The fact the inquiry was open to
submissions was not widely advertised, and the limit to 3 pages is also unacceptable. The terms of reference
for this inquiry requests an examination of National Cabinet - how is this possible without an examination of
the actions/health orders of the states? All submissions that wish to be made public should be, and there
should be no limit - even if you get responses in the hundreds of thousands or even millions. You turned this
country on its head and there must start to be a reckoning for what was done at some point. This inquiry is just
totally insufficient on every level to address the actions of Governments and what they did to their populations
since 2020.

Future pandemic preparedness: Pandemics should by now be something of the past. By now, four years after
this hideous episode started, the Government and our security agencies (including ASIO and our defence force
and policing agencies) should have worked out where the virus came from and how to stop them in future. No,
it is not the greatest mystery of all time as it is presented to be, and any nation state that refuses to co-operate
with global inquiries to locate the origin, should be made pariahs just as has been done to Russia. Once
ascertained, reparations should be paid, regardless of whether it was deliberately released or not - that is the
only way to ensure it never happens again. These agencies should have also worked out all the ways to ensure
it does not happen again by now - it should have been the number one priority from day 1. The pandemic
plans that had been worked on for decades (and of which much tax payer funds went into) were thrown in the
bin the minute the pandemic was announced, and instead an incredibly draconian police state was enforced
on us, using no proven scientifically supported evidence - (all of which apparently were not prepared years in
advance, but were rolled out with the greatest of precision that would make Stalin blush). We adopted the
Wuhan approach to managing this classified pandemic, rather than the policy that had been developed by
Australian Prime Ministers and those in their teams over decades. Now we are to believe that four years on
that we are still none the wiser about what to do, and just totally powerless in the face of respiratory or other
viruses that come here. No, the Australian public does not accept this, or that from late 2019 we suddenly had
this virus and over the next 2 years or so threats of a swarm of other viruses coming here despite our previous
(as in a day earlier) fantastic biosecurity (please look at how SARS and swine flu was managed by comparison)
just suddenly just evaporated into thin air. The public does not accept this idea that we want to be able to do
pandemics better, more efficiently - they simply feel they should not be happening, and any government or
agency that has plans to allow a repeat will know exactly what will happen to the government of the day: - it
will be thrown out at the next election (just as occurred this time around), and one term governments will be
the norm.

National defence failings (continued): It is desperately disingenuous that our security and policing agencies
and forces were able to undertake extreme levels of control over the lives of the population, including rolling
out pre-planned psychological operations on the population of Australia, curtailing free speech to East
Germany levels prior to the fall of the Berlin wall, removing posts everywhere on the internet that went
against the government narrative, controlling the distance we stood next to each other and ensuring everyone
wore a mask (even outside), preventing people from farewelling their loved ones, preventing people from
worshiping in their faith communities and buildings, using rubber bullets on protestors, surveilling their
populations with constant fly overs with security grade helicopters - many of actions occurred within a
moments notice after pandemic was announced, yet we are to believe that they are powerless to figure out
where a virus originated? If you don't already know, no-one believes this nonsense. And I only need to look at

                                                                                                                  1
the terrible censorship that occurred since 2020 to know that the Government also knows that no-one really
believes this, or there would be no need to censor!

National Cabinet. The notion that Commonwealth Government supposedly had no powers of supremacy over
state governments to take control during an emergency is a nonsense that is exposed by a simple google
search: Under section 109 of the Australian Constitution, if a state parliament and the federal Parliament pass
conflicting laws on the same subject, then the federal law overrides the state law. Commonwealth parliament
should have immediately sat to pass laws (by our elected representatives) to ensure effective biosecurity was
in place to deal with the virus, and pass laws to ensure during what was an uncertain time that civil liberties
were protected.

National Cabinet was no panacea to this notion that our then Prime Minister was claiming that he had no
control over how the states were responding to covid. What I heard from people during the pandemic was
that between the lot of these governments, they were all basically useless in responding appropriately to the
virus or limiting it (as had been done in the past), and instead they wasted great amounts of money going to
these National Cabinet meetings (all the travel and administration costs) which were realistically conducted
within secrecy, while they suspended our regular state and national parliaments under the guise of
emergency.

The idea that the spread of covid-19 into the Australian community was a pandemic requiring the suspension
of our parliaments and civil liberties beyond war times was (even at the time when the virus was supposedly
unknown) is ridiculous, and was not supported by evidence then or now. No evidence was presented by the
Governments (federal or state) to adequately support these actions, and instead we were simply inundated
with security level psychological operations messaging relating to staying at home, keeping our distance from
each other, and then later once developed (at warp speed mind you) taking the supposedly 'safe and effective'
vaccine. We had Chief Medical Officers telling us that the science supported the actions being taken, but
nothing was actually provided to prove this. Our Government health websites should have been places of
learning where all the supposed evidence should have been placed....but instead these were used for
brainwashing purposes. We were told unless we were virologists working for the government we weren't
allowed an opinion. Instead of encouraging exercise, vitamin D, sunlight, social supports for all - all the things
that build immunity, the opposite was encouraged. We the critical thinking community were stunned, literally
hit for six, we had no idea what was behind this assault on our civil liberties and the loss of our former liberal
democracy which had been formed by robust free speech, the contest of ideas and the right to individualism in
its many forms.


Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns: People were encouraged to
stay at home, and not go to the doctor. Screening for all the other illnesses that are far more deadly and
dangerous if not picked up or left untreated was pretty much ceased for a long period of time, and the
psychological pressure to stay at home - including where I lived a 5km limit on travel enforced by large fines -
which is something that stays with people for long after it is lifted - along with the fear mongering that existed
in the medical community meant that it was heavily discouraged to come in for screening and preventative
health for other conditions. During the early stages of the lockdowns, not enough was done for the extreme
socially and physically vulnerable. Those who need social services or in house medical services were impacted
heavily. There was no adequate ways to measure this. Mental health and suicide prevention supports were
beefed up a little, however I don't believe to the extent needed, and also it was the Government who was
creating the mental health and suicide risks through un-necessary, ill advised, and frankly grotesque policies
that stopped people from being close or showing affection and care for others. It must never happen again,
and I think the Government knows this, that there will be a revolt if they ever try and pull something like this
again.

Vaccinations: Mandating vaccinations for people to keep their employment was the greatest stain on our
country's history. Those who bravely stood against this medieval policy, including myself, were dragged
through the mud in everyway possible. We suffered enduring and unusually cruel punishments for choosing to
have autonomy over our bodies rather than take a vaccine that had not been properly tested. Those vaccines
that used lipid nanoparticles had already been proven to destroy female fertility in previous studies completed


                                                                                                                 2
as early as 2018, however this was enforced on working pregnant women who wanted to continue working, it
was enforced on fertility age women. Those who took the vaccine, effectively at metaphorical gunpoint to
keep their financial ability to keep a roof over theirs and their families heads, and who had adverse reactions
to the vaccines after early shots still lost their jobs. Suddenly the goal posts of what was fully vaccinated
changed, and those who had 2 shots were considered in some industries no longer vaccinated. In some
industries, this means up to 5 shots to be considered 'up to date' with their vaccinations. Are we talking about
animals when we describe someone as being 'up to date'. When people purchase cats and dogs they are
advertised as 'up to date' with their vaccinations. The breach of our privacy to require people to show that
they were up to date to do basically anything including simply getting in to Kmart or to get a haircut was one of
the more hideous outcomes of these third world utterly ill advised 'health orders'. If only these had not been
intended, but they were cruel (and totally and utterly useless) by design.

The threats from health governing bodies on the medical community to force the vaccines on everyone,
including pregnant women (who doctors normally do not give anything to) was an abomination. The threats
on them of loss of licence if they were pursuing their patient's adverse outcomes was disgusting. The calls that
the unvaccinated were unworthy of hospital beds were reminiscent of early 1930s Nazi Germany where those
determined to be 'useless eaters' were gradually prevented from gaining medical care. I experienced this
myself, when trying to get medical care particularly in the early days and being blocked, or given substandard
care and treated very poorly due to my unvaccinated status. The profits of pharmaceutical companies were
obscene, they had no risk as they were indemnified of any risk by the Government - using our money - and an
essentially compulsory vaccination policy across at least the western world.

The worst part about the punishment of the unvaccinated howevei^aoh^theft by the Government of our
rightful incomes over a period of years, I estimate that I lost up to^^^^^^ninimum (including loss of
superannuation I was forced to raid while I was forced into stand down while employed during early stages of
lockdown, until later when I was unable to get employment as anything (not a cleaner, not a kitchenhand,
nothing - despite having effectively 2 degrees and 20 years of corporate experience)). I was nearly made
homeless and bankrupted through debt caused by the removal of my working rights (despite being the
granddaughter of a World War II veteran, and coming from generations of Australians who contributed greatly
to this country over many generations). If the unvaccinated had not pushed back, we would have ended up
rounded up into compulsory 'health centres' that the Government started to set up around Australia.

Adverse reactions to the Vaccine: there has been nothing short of a total cover-up in relation to those who
have been affected by adverse reactions to the vaccines. I am talking about very severe responses, that have
crippled and killed people. People were not adequately acknowledged in the compensation schemes, and I am
aware of people severely maimed by the vaccination missing out on compensation and left unable to work
with huge medical costs, some basically now homeless. I hazard a guess that we all know someone who has
been adversely affected by the vaccine, but very few have known people who died or were crippled from the
virus. There simply was no risk benefit analysis done, not in the early stages when data was coming in from
around the world showing large numbers of people were being affected by the vaccine. The argument that
billions were vaccinated so to expect many adverse events and that is not much by comparison is morally
bankrupt. Don't forget people were forced to have this vaccination to continue working, so they were not free
to make the choice or to consent to an untested vaccine with unknown substances in them. We were told ad
nauseum it was 'safe and effective' which was a total nonsense when we consider those who have suffered
from the vaccine, and how utterly hopeless they were to stop the spread or show evidence stop severity.

There is a cloud over the number of adverse events recorded and reported. There was also a cover up culture
enforced across our medical establishments, with pressure for medical staff to not go against the government
narrative. As mentioned, so many of us have had personal dealings with those affected by the vaccine, that it is
clear to many that the vaccine itself in fact is the danger and the pandemic. The vaccines were designed to be
transmissible, and effectively act like a virus. This was established in th^^^Jdocuments that were released -
exposure to the vaccine was established as having less than 2 forms of contraception during sex with someone
who had been vaccinated, inhaling the exhalation of a vaccinated person, and skin to skin contact with
someone who had been vaccinated. I believe that a transmissible and highly dangerous vaccine was released
into the community by you the authorities, as though the human populations were a pestilent breed of wild
rabbits, without any regard to our human rights.


                                                                                                               3
