                                   A\
                              Accommodation Australia
                                     A DIVISION OF THE AHA




15 December 2023

Independent Panel
Inquiry into COVID-19 Response

Dear Panel members

Accommodation Australia (AA) appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Government
response to the COVID-19 Pandemic. Our interest fundamentally aligns with the purpose of
the inquiry which is to identify lessons learned to improve Australia’s preparedness for future
pandemics.

The accommodation sector, as part of the broader hospitality industry, was severely impacted
by the pandemic. Pre-pandemic, employment in the accommodation sector in 2018 was over
120,000. By February 2021, that had dropped to 75,000, and it has been a slow recovery since.
Unfortunately, employment in accommodation has not yet returned to pre-COVID levels.

While we are aware that the Inquiry’s Terms of Reference focus on the response of the Federal
Government, our sector was so detrimentally affected by the actions of State and Territory
Governments that it would be unfair to our members not to make some comments about the
responses that caused the most distress. In this context, our submission refers to actions of
governments collectively, and the intersection between national cabinet, federal government
and state/territory government action.

Quarantine

The Accommodation sector performed a highly valuable role during the pandemic as
quarantine facilities for returning Australians and authorised international visitors. While
providing much-needed income to hotels that participated, it did not come without cost, with
damage to hotel property and reputation, and the need to deal with customers who were
frustrated and trapped by the requirement to quarantine.

At the commencement of the pandemic the haste with which hotel quarantine facilities needed
to be established created chaos which took some time to settle down. Engagement was
inconsistent with some States not engaging with operators on key decisions which were then
poorly communicated and poorly thought through.

With the benefit of the experience gained through COVID-19, it is essential that a national
framework on hotel quarantine is finalised before the next pandemic, particularly as it is highly
unlikely that dedicated state or national quarantine facilities will be sufficient to manage the
volume should another global pandemic occur. A national approach is also necessary as many
of the hotels are operated by national chains and the inconsistency across jurisdictions created
major problems.

The national hotel quarantine framework should include:




   02 8666 9015 | mail@accommodationaustralia.org | accommodationaustralia.org |
              Level 12, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW 2000
                                A
                           Accommodation Australia
                                  A DIVISION OF THE AHA




•   Contracts between Government and hotels (and not use of emergency powers) - Early
    contracting with hotels agreeing to become quarantine facilities, with a guaranteed
    minimum payment based on the market rate of rooms available for quarantine, whether
    that be the whole hotel or a set number of floors. In NSW, this figure was 80%, such
    that if there were 100 rooms available at $300 for the room and 3 meals, the payment
    to the hotel was a minimum of 80 x $300 even if less rooms were occupied, and if fully
    occupied then 100 x $300. Alternatively, a set rate for occupied and one for available.
    Either of these arrangements worked well as they allowed for stability in
    staffing/rostering particularly as the occupancy could change very quickly. It is also
    important for there to be a consistent and industry-transparent approach so that room
    rates paid are standard for each city location Alter to the property rating.
•   Security control - In the early days of the pandemic there was insufficient security in
    some States which put hotel staff at risk. In full lock down, enforcement of hotel
    quarantine should be done by the police. The experience in Melbourne of using security
    firms which used inexperienced staff to enforce quarantine was disastrous, not just for
    COVID spread butforthe reputation of the hotels and the management of the pandemic.
    Hotel brand names should not have been used in media reports and government did not
    protect the hotels.
    During lockdown, police usually have the resources to undertake the enforcement, but
    when quarantine is still in place but there is no domestic lockdown, security firms are
    likely to be the best option. Governments should have a ready-to-use panel of security
    firms they can call on who commit to providing training and well-briefed staff should
    the need arise.
•   The customer payment issue was a mess. It was totally unfair on those travellers who
    paid thousands of dollars for their quarantine when other debts owed were excused. A
    fairer approach would be that from the beginning all of the room costs are picked up by
    government (as they are the ones enforcing the quarantine irrespective of whether the
    traveller has COVID) but that a modest fee be charged to the customer to cover the
    meals, as food would be a cost that the traveller would have incurred at home. There
    could be a separate fee arrangement for Australians who are granted approval to travel
    out and return during a pandemic, but not for Australians returning later as any financial
    to return early would place an unmanageable demand on both airline capacity and
    quarantine. Whatever final customer fee arrangement is agreed for the framework, it
    should be fair, consistent and transparent throughout the period when quarantine is in
    place.
•   Hotel health protocols - overall, the health protocols within quarantine hotels operated
    effectively, and benefited from a better understanding of how the virus was transmitted
    as the pandemic progressed. In Victoria, retrofits of many hotel air conditioning and
    filtration systems were required by Government to mitigate risks of ‘shared air’ virus
    transmission between rooms. This led to significant unbudgeted capital expenditure by
    hotel operators, via a co-contribution model with government. The inquiry should
    determine through health advice if this was necessary, as it was not a requirement in
    other jurisdictions so there should be data to provide a comparison of mitigated risk if




02 8666 9015 | mail@accommodationaustralia.org | accommodationaustralia.org |
           Level 12, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW 2000
                                   A
                               Accommodation Australia
                                      A DIVISION OF THE AHA


       any. As a result of examining the evidence, this element may need to also be addressed
       in the national framework.
   •   Homeless accommodated elsewhere - in some states hotels were required to house the
       homeless which was problematic and created significant product damage. The
       program brought in guests with complex mental health problems and introduced with
       higher levels of security and support workers plus larger “make good” on departure.
   •   Appropriate compensation (“make good”) within the framework - both for financial
       impact on the hotels as well the effect on staff. The hotels had to absorb the cost of any
       damage in guest rooms caused by quarantine guests, for whom no bond was able to
       be collected by the hotel, which would be a normal procedure for hotel guests. The only
       option offered was for police to lodge a wilful damage case against the guest on the
       hotel’s behalf, which ultimately relied upon the guest’s ability to pay and was frequently
       unsuccessful. Some hotels also had damage to venue space where health authorities
       used it as an office-based area.
       Consideration should be given to the circumstances of each hotel; the additional wear
       and tear they may endure; and the need to return these hotels to the state in which they
       were prior to being requisitioned. Also, if international travel remains restricted but
       domestic tourism has recommenced, compensation should also consider that
       quarantine hotels may have to suspend regular marketing activities. This disruption can
       profoundly affect modern-day business models, which are increasingly dependent on
       loyalty programs and visibility in the market.
       Any compensation framework should also consider the Workplace Health and Safety
       and the rehabilitation of staff from a hospitality service business to a quarantine facility
       business, backto a hospitality service business. Staff working in these facilities reported
       considerable damage to their mental health and counselling for frontline workers in
       these facilities should be made available with government support.


Restrictions - a help or hindrance?

This inquiry has the opportunity to examine the data (both from Australia and overseas) and
answer some important questions:

       -   Did those States that locked down more frequently fare any better in stopping the
           spread of COVID than other jurisdictions?

       -   In a country such as Australia, when it comes to health and wellbeing, should
           borders be any more than lines on a map? The impact of border restrictions on
           regional economies was immense, including the difficulties of attending work, school
           and day to day activities. Did domestic border restrictions add any value to tackling
           COVID-19, particularly when moving between regions which have similar covid
           spread rates? Of greatest frustration were examples where state-wide restrictions
           were imposed with police-enforced authority on state border movements even when
           regions on either side of the border were experiencing little to no cases of COVID.




   02 8666 9015 | mail@accommodationaustralia.org | accommodationaustralia.org |
              Level 12, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW 2000
                                   A
                               Accommodation Australia
                                      A DIVISION OF THE AHA




            We believe it would have been more appropriate to impose restrictions only between
            regions experiencing significantly different spread patterns - a restriction based on
            health, not on state jurisdictional boundaries. This approach requires a national
            standard for imposing restrictions.

       -    Which restrictions had the greatest benefit, and which did little to stop the spread
            but had a major impact on business? For example, the 1.5 m distancing and hand
            sanitising stations seemed to be effective, and businesses could work with it. In
            contrast, some of the more onerous overall capacity restrictions, did not make much
            sense and had a major impact on hospitality businesses.

Determining a health consensus on restrictions, given all of the known experiences from COVID,
is critically important to managing future pandemics in a way that maximises the health
outcomes without putting onerous restrictions on business that had little health impact.

National action and advisory mechanisms

Given the split responsibilities between the Commonwealth and the States/Territories, regular
meetings of the National Cabinet were important and reassuring if somewhat frustrating in
their inability to, at times, reach consensus. There is a role for competitive federalism but State
and Territory leadership at times stuck to their hard lines in the face of evidence in other states
that a more balanced approach was just as effective.

The COVID Commission set up early on played a vital role, particularly in liaising with business,
but with hindsight, an active National Coordinating Mechanism could have performed the same
role from the beginning. The benefit of the NCM was that it brought together government reps
with business in an overall coordinated response. We support the call from Aus Chamber
Tourism that the NCM should include a representative from the tourism sector given that it will
almost certainly be significantly impacted.

The regular meetings between Treasury and business were also very important, enabling
feedback on support proposals and facilitating interaction between business and central
agencies, health and other agencies, including those responsible for vaccination roll out.

Overall, although at times the number of agencies was confusing, the benefit of regular
dialogue between business and government was critically important and should be a key
feature of any future pandemic response.

JobKeeper

The AHA (of which AA is a division) was an early instigator of what became JobKeeper. The
AHA advocated at the highest levels for a scheme that avoided stood-down workers having to
visit Centrelink to receive payments. The AHA proposed instead Government use employer’s
payroll systems to make payments, thus preserving the dignity of the person and maintaining
the links between employer and employee. Although this support measure came under heavy




   02 8666 9015 | mail@accommodationaustralia.org | accommodationaustralia.org |
               Level 12, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW 2000
                                   A
                               Accommodation Australia
                                      A DIVISION OF THE AHA


criticism later in the pandemic, there is no doubt that the measure saved hundreds of thousands
if not millions of jobs, and certainly allowed our sector to keep many staff connected to their
employer and industry. It is essential that a similar support program be part of any future
response to a major pandemic. Lessons learnt included:

       -   Checking in with the business more frequently early to see that revenue fall
           predictions and actuals align so that any financial support program remains
           targeted on businesses that experienced, and continued to experience, a severe
           deterioration in their revenue.
       -   The delivery mechanism through the tax system worked more efficiently than any
           grant-based program and should be the basis for any future crisis support.
       -   Coverage of casuals was more than just intermittent connection to the business was
           critically important to industries such as ours. The same support should have been
           available for temporary visa holders where they also met the same requirements as
           casuals. The message of temporary migrants needing to return home was a poor
           one, and made a significant dent in the availability of skills once tourism and
           hospitality was allowed to trade.
       -   A two tier approach similar to the second tranche of JobKeeper, which reflect a more
           suitable payment for casuals and part timers with less hours was a better approach.
       -   The need for there to be some obligation on the employee to undertake work should
           a business be able to partially trade. Employers experienced great difficulty in
           returning staff to work or getting them to do some productive hours when the receipt
           of JobKeeper was the same regardless of whether they worked or not. This could be
           dealt with by allowing employers to reduce JobKeeper payment where such
           circumstances exist

Although the suggestions above reflect the desirability for the response to be better targeted
to maximise the benefit of the fiscal spend, it is important to state that even the “not-so-well-
targeted” money still went into the struggling economy, either in the hands of the employees or
the business with a positive fiscal stimulus effect. This important fact reinforces the view that
in future pandemics, it is better to implement a measure quickly before job connections are lost
even if it is not perfect, than to spend too long fine tuning and lose the opportunity to help more
businesses and workers.

Continuing business support

In the course of a pandemic, after an economy-wide program such as JobKeeper is no longer
needed, business support is still essential where any ongoing government restrictions are
having an impact on business trading. There was immense frustration during the COVID-19
pandemic that as the remainder of the economy recovered, the tourism industry was left high
and dry without any federal financial support beyond that targeted for sectors such as aviation
or travel agents even though closed international borders and some domestic restrictions were
severely impacting tourist numbers and business revenue. Although there were some grant­
based state government funded programs, which were welcome, these were nowhere near as
effective and efficient as a JobKeeper-style support program.




   02 8666 9015 | mail@accommodationaustralia.org | accommodationaustralia.org |
               Level 12, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW 2000
                                      A
                                 Accommodation Australia
                                           A DIVISION OF THE AHA




Tourism Restart Taskforce

As one of the industries most impacted by the pandemic, the coordination and industry
communication undertaken by the Tourism Restart Taskforce set up by the ACCI tourism
committee and chaired by Jeremy Johnson AM was essential. It met regularly with key
agencies, Ministers, health officials and other stakeholders, and published summaries of the
meetings on a special COVID site and briefed industry leadership on matters discussed. In a
future pandemic this industry-led and government-legitimised Taskforce should be an
important feature.

A key output of the Tourism Restart Taskforce was the development of proposed roadmaps for
tourism recovery which were aligned with COVID health advice and then vaccination roll out.
It was a source of frustration that the national cabinet roadmaps did not go far enough to help
the tourism industry plan for recovery. A major example was the cruise industry, which the
accommodation sector was closely aligned. After the initial publicity around the Ruby Princess,
it seemed beyond governments to act on providing a pathway to restart even domestic cruising,
even when domestic tourism elsewhere had been given the go ahead. Also, with conferences
and events such an important part of the accommodation industry, the roadmap to easing
restrictions on gatherings seem to be more restrictive than needed (see earlier comment on
getting the balance right).

With airlines and airports needing sufficient notice to increase capacity, a workable roadmap
for tourism recovery that balances health and economic value should be an important part of
any future pandemic action. This should be a priority for National Cabinet.


Overall, there are many lessons to be learned from the COVID-19 pandemic. Sectors such as
ours rely on strong national leadership, consistent health advice, regular information, and the
opportunity to share our concerns and have them attended to. The tourism industry also needs
an active approach to restart timetables to enable proper planning.

If you require any more detail on issues raised in this submission, please do not hesitate to
contact us.

Yours sincerely




JENNY LAMBERT
National Policy & Research Advisor
Mobile:
Email policy@accommoclationaustralia.org




                                                                   | accommodationaustralia.org |
                Level 12, Culwulla Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney NSW 2000
