                               Submission to Covid-19 Inquiry

My name is Anna Lane and up until 4th February 2022 I was employed by Virgin Australia as a
domestic flight attendant based in Melbourne. A position I held for almost 14 years. The
company’s Covid-19 policy required that all employees receive two doses of an “approved”
vaccine by Nov 2021. I was threatened with loss of employment if I did not participate in a
Covid-19 vaccination clinical trial. Having spent many hours doing my own research, the result of
which raised some very serious safety concerns, I exercised my right to informed consent and as
a consequence, I was terminated from my employment with Virgin Australia with the defamatory
false charge of serious misconduct, usually the preserve of theft, assault, sexual assault and
deliberate safety violations.

The fall out from being terminated from my employment was devastating, resulting in loss of
income and financial security, the very means by which I support myself and the source of my
independence. The anxiety of an uncertain future was all consuming, effecting both my mental
and physical health. With rent and bills to pay, and prohibited from working due to mandates
effecting all authorised workers in Victoria, along with the Premier Daniel Andrew’s threats of a
“vaccinated economy”, I had no choice but to uproot my life in Melbourne, pack up a house that
had been my home for 26.5 years and move to Queensland to live with my mother. It was a huge
reduction in circumstances given I have lived most of my adult life as a proud, single and
independent woman. I grieved for my loss and for the the life I was forced to leave but most
disturbing was the sense of feeling displaced, like a refugee in my own country.

The Federal Government’s response to Covid-19 was a disaster in that it failed to ensure the
states upheld the democratic and constitutional rights of all Australians.

Power is arbitrary insofar as it is uncontrolled by those who are subject to it. Australia has a
representative democratic government structured to afford its citizens protection against the
exercise of arbitrary political power. The lockdowns and restrictions imposed upon Victorians by
Daniel Andrews were unrestrained and autocratic in the use of authority. He ignored the rights of
Victorians to informed consent with regard to medical procedures as per our constitution, and
forced employers to act on behalf of the state government and authorise civil conscription by
mandating a vaccine. It is a long established principle of law that consent cannot be given in
circumstances of duress and coercion, and yet Daniel Andrews issued the “No Jab, No Job”
directive.

Chief Health Officers were issuing public orders based on “science” and the “best medical
advice” that closed businesses, schools, churches and sporting clubs, made unprecedented and
unconscionable intrusions into our privacy and disrupted our most precious social and family
relationships.

The Federal government spent billions of taxpayers dollars on purchasing Covid-19 vaccines for
the Australian public that failed to provide immunity or prevent transmission. Vaccines which were
indeed unsafe, based on a novel mRNA technology so risky that manufactures refused to produce
it unless every government in the world shielded them from liability.

It became clear the vaccines themselves posed a greater risk to health and safety than Covid-19.
Simply consider the data on the Therapeutic Goods Administration website as it pertains to
Covid-19 vaccine adverse event reports, including fatalities.
In January 2022 when I was preparing for my show-cause meeting prior to my termination of
employment, these were the statistics at the time:
Total number of deaths from Covid-19 in Australia: 2,750 (JHU CSSE Covid-19 Data and Our
World in Data)
Total number of adverse event reports since the Covid-19 roll out in Australia as released by the
TGA: 99,659
Despite the data, the health regulator of Australia failed to pull the Covid-19 vaccines and
suspend the vaccination campaign.
The Federal Government’s response to Covid-19 was an abject failure and a betrayal of the
Australian people. It was an attack on democracy and on public health. Every precaution must be
taken to ensure this never happens again. The way forward in terms of pandemic preparedness is
clear when you consider the words of the great Thomas Jefferson, American founding father and
principal author of the Declaration of Independence...

“There is no justification of taking away individual freedom in the guise of public safety”
