About this submission and why the short time frame for response?

This is a personal submission based on my opinions drawn from lived experience - especially being
pressured by the Victorian Government with its continuous message effectively stating "no jab no job" via
internal website posts and conversations through reporting lines to the highest level. The Commonwealth
Government made no counter argument and did not require its employees to be jabbed. That the
Commonwealth Government is not calling State and Territory Governments to account appears to be a
shameful exercise in pretending to do something - pretending to be accountable, for example. This is a
type of mindless trick that likely won't be forgotten.

Note, all links and positions mentioned in this submission are in the public domain.

In my opinion, Australian and State and Territory Governments, in response to COVID-19, conducted
themselves poorly, unfairly and undemocratically and, it seems, continue to do so. For example, the short
time frame offered by the Commonwealth Government to respond to this request; and distributing it for
comment at a festive time when people are not expecting government to raise requests for comment on
critical issues is an obviously shameful tactic.

While, no doubt, officers of the Australian and State and Territory Governments with responsibility for
health responses are comforted that their salary continues to enter their bank account, perhaps they can
spare a thought for those now without a salary (as a result of the governmental response to the pandemic)
or worse - those injured or without a life. https://thei restofthefallen.com/about-us/

The short timing for responses is thoughtless, rude and careless in my view. It seems to smack of arrogance
and perhaps that is reflective of the mindset of those responsible for proposing and agreeing to it -
selfishly focussing on what suits the Commonwealth Government staff rather than what produces the best
outcomes and respects those assisting the response and those paying their salary. Why, how and who
thought this timeframe was appropriate?

In relation to the introductory paragraph of the "Scope":
   •   Any opportunities for systems to more effectively anticipate, adapt and respond to pandemics must
       not over-reach and over-step the democratic right of humans to privacy and a censorship-free
       environment. The Commonwealth Government must do better in terms of serving the people and
       defending this country's democracy, reputation and integrity, which is what they're paid to do and
       not the other way around.

Governance
   • In my opinion, the Commonwealth and state and territory governments over-stepped their roles
      and jurisdiction in relation to the COVID-19 response and have not been held to account for their
      actions. It may be prudent to address this first within a legal framework of integrity.
   • In my opinion, the Commonwealth and State and Territory Governments silenced then censored
      experts including health practitioners who had more knowledge, veracity and integrity than those
      making the decisions - see below (key health responses). This is not democratic governance that
      the people expect and pay for, it's dictatorship. Trust is unlikely to be regained and tactics won't be
      forgotten, for example, silence from the Commonwealth Government and mistreatment by VicRol
      such as firing rubber bullets to those they're paid to serve.
   • In my view, the Australian and other Governments have discriminated against me and abused my
      human right to agency over what goes in my body in order to continue to work in government at
      that time. The callous nature of how the Commonwealth Government said, "we're not mandating
      the jab" while looking on and allowing other governments to do this is disgraceful. The Victorian

                                                                                                            1
       Government said people can't work without the jab - in fact, several jabs even though the jabs did
       not stop transmission or stop contraction of the virus - and this was known. Recalling all those
       people spewing their insufficiently informed propaganda across the media speaks to the lack of
       leadership from the Australian Government and States and Territories. I hope people reflect on
       their own low level of consciousness and choose to be better.
   •   Victoria now has a huge debt. Had we not locked everybody up and had the Commonwealth
       Government undertaken its duty to serve the people (and not the other way around) we would
        likely be in a different position. We should have had reasonably effective medicines quickly in every
       household (inexpensive and safe). It appears that Government staff were happy to keep pocketing
       their salary but refused to actually do their job properly, seemingly. There needs to be a higher-
        level enquiry into those responsible for the pandemic responses; including why
       Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin (or some derivative of) were banned; and why decisions were
       removed from those qualified to make them - GPs etc. It is these bad decisions, in my view, that
       has directly contributed to the crippling debt we face.
   •   It is strongly suggested that the Commonwealth Government rethinks its position on "vaccine" for
       illnesses it knows nothing about; and does not blindly follow theBBof other countries. The change
       of the definition of "vaccine" in the USA was noted by those with the intelligence to pay attention.
       Lack of governance was in play in Australia, it seems.
   •   Abandoning people overseas and harassing people to move quickly across domestic borders before
       closure is indicative of ill-conceived policy or decision-making on the run. It lacks appropriate
       governance.
   •   The fear-based messaging from the Commonwealth and other governments across all mainstream
       media was disgraceful. I just switched off, recognising the hideous messages from the Victorian
       Premier and Commonwealth "leaders" for the propaganda it was - noting I was paying for it
       though, along with all the other tax payers. The messaging did not meet any level of appropriate
       governance in my view.
   •   Unfortunately, it's often "tertiary educated" people with insufficient life experience, foundational
       knowledge or expertise in the subject writing reports and policies for governments and they're
       accepted by equally insufficiently informed people, in my opinion. The Commonwealth
       Government might benefit from moving from what I consider to be a "control at all costs" approach
       to one where wisdom, vision and intelligent expertise are the focus. This may improve its ability to
       meet appropriate governance standards.
   •   Articles from, for example, Professor Robert Clancy may help the Commonwealth Government
       realise its blinkered and unhelpful approach.
       https://quadrant.org.au/opinion/health/2023/03/covid-insights-gained-lessons-unheeded/
   •       The proposed Royal Commission must proceed.

Key health response measures ...
   • The Commonwealth and State and Territory Governments need to take accountability for their
      actions which have been likened (true or not) to breaking the^^^^^^^^^^The
       Commonwealth Government remained silent while State Governments mandated an experimental
       drug in order to work and participate in society. In other situations it seemed that interference of
       low quality, agenda-based "fact checkers" occurred, seemingly to terrorise or dictate.
   •   All Governments were warned of poor outcomes of COVID-19 policies, for example, through the
       Great Barrington Declaration signed by experts in October 2020. These were infectious disease
       epidemiologists and public health scientists, https://gbdeclaration.org Why did the Commonwealth
       Government not pursue and consider this advice? How does it intend to act in the future?
   •   Health responses to the corona virus were significantly wrong, in my view. The Australian
       Government's Non- Clinical Evaluation Report on the COVID-19 vaccine by the TGA in January 2021,
       while heavily redacted, was criticised by Professor Robert Clancy (Australia) and Dr John Campbell
       (UK). https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYkN7Gdpl8w

                                                                                                            2
       (Approx 23 minutes) ... As though they had people that just didn't understand the biology of the
       infection ... Is a key statement, isn't it? Why did the Commonwealth Government allow this and
       what does it intend to do to significantly increase the quality of advice it is listening to and on which
       it is basing its decisions?
   •   Experts, Doctors and other health professionals such as psychologists were silenced, censored
       and threatened with losing their vocation and livelihood by Health authorities, AHPRA and the TGA
       administration should they have decided to assist their patients and act with integrity rather than
       what could be considered disgraceful dictates of the Australian Federal Government.
       Commonwealth Governments are accountable for this apparent refusal to put people before
       profits or their need for control. It's the public, including health practitioners that pay their salary.
       See the letters and the associated bullying those Commonwealth Government representatives sent
       to health professionals who dared have a view that was correct but varied from the
       Commonwealth's narrative. This was a disgrace to decency, democracy, the Hippocratic Oath and
       other ethical standards. This lack of sensibility from the Commonwealth Government is a key factor
       in how it contributed to massive mental health issues and suicides elsewhere questioned in its ToR.
   •   Evidence existed early on re the benefits of Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine but, it appears,
       that the Australian Governments chose untested products (where results were not due for a
       considerable time) over the health of the people. That Australian Governments silenced and
       censored is disgraceful - please refer to Craig Kelly's situation regarding attempted government
       censorship of his Twitter account - see the following from 4 mins
       lTttps^/www1Youtube1corn/watch?v^wgQySayGlJ94
   •   Please refer to the research undertaken and the many presentations to parliament (usually with no­
       one listening in the house despite MPs being paid by Australians) by current independent
       politicians such as Senator Gerard Rennick and many others such as Matt Canavan, Alex Antic,
       Ralph Babet, Malcolm Roberts and Craig Kelly. Their statements are in the public domain.
   •   Note the Australian Government allocated $8 billion to Big Pharma; allocated $2M to the Coalition
       for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and then supported the Chair of CEPI to review the
       procurement. This appears to be a conflict of interest. How did it happen?
   •   The Commonwealth Government may have been incorrect and unfair in not supporting both the
       COVID-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work
       Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023. The outcome is that
       apparently the Commonwealth Government and the Victorian Government coerced vaccination
       while denying it was mandated. Human rights are now ignored, it seems. I refused the jab and was
       harassed by VicGov representatives with the "no jab no job" messages. The government was still
       peddling this message at the time I left the job.
   •        The proposed Royal Commission must proceed.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
   • Approach from a view point of wisdom, intelligence and consultation with real people with
      expertise and not those that pretend or massage data to produce the outcome sought.
   • In my opinion, "Mechanisms to target..." offers no confidence in the ability of the Commonwealth
      Government to produce anything resembling visionary, enlightened, libertarian, humane and anti-
      discriminatory. It is stale, copy and paste messaging.
   • Consult people such as Professor Robert Clancy, please; and note that Australians and others
      listening to him are possibly more up to date than bureaucrats in the Australian Government and
      State and Territory Governments.
   •       The proposed Royal Commission must proceed.




                                                                                                               3
