Submission from Geoffrey Taylor

(I am relying on this in Scope: "Specific areas of review may include, but are not limited to”. So a
little here on therapeutics.

About me

I am a retired professor in work health and safety, and decided to exchange information through
Researchgate in a question I posed in March 2020 about use of existing drugs to tackle covid (1). I had
already obtained the treatment protocol used in Wuhan early on                        and passed it to
the WA health authorities.

Repurposing medicines

           M(2) had produced a grid of existing drugs and existing antiviral tests of them,
           in NSW Health had produced a list of potential drugs to repurpose for covid including
cepharanthine, an over the counter hair restorer in Japan. At that time we had none of the purpose
created antivirals for covid which started to appear two years later. The first option I raised was
ranitidine bismuth citrate, aimed at influencing cell pH.
I later took part in a six continent online seminar in April 2021 to discuss deployment of ivermectin, after
                   2020 Christmas review of the existing papers on it.

Suggested improvements

So this submission relates to suggested improvements in the deployment of some aspects of Australian
science which arise from the experience of the last four years.

I would like to see the Australian Academy of Science play a much larger role in coordinating the
scientific therapeutic response to a pandemic, especially in regard to medicines which might nip it in the
bud, an essential approach for viruses. Whatever our view on ivermectin, Peru, after^^^^^^^^^^l
paper about its successful use in early 2020, went on to have a university make it. For our part we have
numerous university organic chemistry departments. (btw^^^H was apparently the first pulmonologist
to use ECMO in Peru). For Australia's part, we did not follow up with trials in Australia after the
promising lab work by                      Also the TGA said depriving certain people with conditions
other than covid of ivermectin supplies was one reason for heavily restricting its use for covid. Another
was possible toxicity, although it had had extensive use in northern Australia and the UK's Chief Scientist
in 2020 had allayed fears on that score over a decade ago, while the TGA had itself conducted an
extensive fav                     ew not so many years ago. The trial registered in Parkville, Victoria never
went ahead,                       here treated 600 patients with ivermectin. We did nothing about
cepharanthine                          ivo animal trials in China. In relation to symptomatic treatment, I
am not sure that                         ork in Pt Edward, South Africa recorded in the Kwazulu Medical
Journal and explained online was ever taken up here. Mindful of the work of              and others on
blackseed (Nigella sativa) I had just bought supplies when the first of the oral antivirals started to
become available here. However given what happened to a number of medical practitioners, the one
doctor from the subcontinent who had been a co-author of a trial report on Nigella would probably have
been loath to speak about it here, having moved to the Australian AHPRA environment.
So for its part, the Therapeutic Goods Administration needed to go into a pandemic mode with a more
activist role instead of just saying come to us with your trials and $300,000 and we'll consider your
repurposed medicine. Unlike the federal Health Department centrally, the TGA head was at least willing
to engage with people with a genuine interest in dealing with an evolving menace. I experienced better
engagement with the EU Health Commission than with our central department. However feedback
suggested a tendency on the part of some ACMS members advising the TGA on medicines to report any
attempt at direct contact as harassment. The corresponding body in the US had each member explain
their vote online (operationalising continuous Australian democracy is a work in progress, as evidenced
by eg. a still unlegislated national cabinet). It is also suggested that any delegations by the Minister for
Health or the head of that Department be published in an easy to access site giving the delegate's name
It was a real round the mulberry bush to find out whose decision an appeal could lodged against, the
OAIC wasn't helpful, there are severe restrictions on the grounds of appeal to the AAT ( almost as if the
drug companies were the only ones who might want to appeal), and the Ombudsman didn't seem keen
to engage about a TGA decision which restricted a doctor's decision to do what he or she believed was
in the patient's best interests at that time. This needs to change.

Some simple things which could have been recommended from early on in the pandemic included
iodine throat gargle to tackle the first symptoms of throat infection, carrageenan nasal spray readily
available over the counter (based on favourable indications from hospital staff from Carvallo in
Argentina), and Vitamin D supplementation if levels were low.

I also hope the documents, which federal Health now produces to assist federal biosecurity authorities
to operationalise quarantine of incoming ships, have been rewritten in a usable way, and that a
department like DAWE with the legislated operational responsibility is suitably staffed to carry it out,
and that any problems with a pandemic response are identified in trials. The one before covid
apparently didn't pick up the weak spots, or if it did, they weren't fixed. The Uncle^^^^^^^^nd all
approach to incoming cruise ships seems to have been sorted out by later in the pandemic.



References:

1. https://www.researchgate.net/post/COVID-19-Are-there-any-promising-suggestions-for-interim-
medications-while-a-vaccine-is-being-developed

2. Reference: Andersen, P.I.; lanevski, A.; Lysvand, H.; Vitkauskiene, A.; Oksenych, V.; Bjoras, M.;
Telling, K.; Lutsar, I.; Dumpis, U.; Irie, Y.; Tenson, T.; Kantele, A.; Kainov, D.E. discovery and
Development of Safe-in-Man Broad-Spectrum Antiviral Agents. International Journal of Infectious
Diseases. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iiid.2020.02.018

3. Caly L., Druce J.D., Catton M.G., Jans D.A., Wagstaff K.M. The FDA-approved drug
ivermectin inhibits the replication of SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. Antivir
Res. 2020;178(104787).
