Prior to the last Federal election, Labor announced, as part of its election platform to
conduct a Royal Commission into the Australian Governments’ (Federal and State)
Covid19 Response. I believe nothing less than a Royal Commission will address the
many failings of the Covid 19 Response from the Governments, at the very least,
address the lack of guidance from the Federal Government in addressing the actions
taken by all State Governments. While initially the Federal response was presided by
Scott Morrison’s Liberal Government, it was the action of predominantly Labor state
premiers that did more harm than good. The Federal government while denying that
vaccinations were going to be mandated, it outsourced these decisions, and was
therefore responsible for not over-ruling the over-reach of the state governments to
mandate the experimental vaccines.
As a relief teacher I was initially employed for 6 months during the “Delta” phase of
the pandemic during 2020 and schools were happy to employ me. As soon as the
McGowan government introduced mandates for teachers, I was prevented from
working. Although a state government decision it was the failure of the Federal
Government to introduce anti-discrimination legislation (COVID-19 Vaccination
Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and Fair Work Amendment
(Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccination Discrimination) Bill 2023 that saw me
unemployed. During this time, my teaching registration was due, and as I was
prevented from working, I let this lapse - something I would not have done if those
pieces of legislation had been enacted. I resent that my decision to not be part of the
governments’ medical experiment prevented me from making an income. The
innoculations have not been proven to be “safe and effective” as repeated ad
nauseum by all Australian governments. Information regarding the vaccines was
scant and the use of violence by police and coercion against those who questioned
the “science” (that has never been explained) or the legitimacy of the measures
taken is something I will never forget, nor forgive. This was the time that Australia as
a democracy ceased to exist. Human rights were trampled and the medical
mandates contravened our Australian Constitution (Section 51 xxiiiA prevents civil
conscription) and the 1986 Human Rights Act. Governments assumed powers way
beyond those given to them by the Australian people.
Aside from the abuses of human rights, as an Australian taxpayer I object to the
waste of tax payers money in the purchasing of enormous quantities of vaccinations
(none of which had actually been proven to prevent this disease and caused untold
harms in side-effects that included death!). Spending at least $18 billion dollars of
tax-payers money for a product that doesn’t work is wasteful and dishonest. The
worst part is that at least half, if not more, of the doses purchased by the government
have been unused and therefore wasted (no wonder our cost of living has sky
rocketed - something else the Federal government needs to address.) These mRNA
vaccines, created in record time were purchased without a safety profile made
record profits for big Pharma who had nothing to lose because of the indemnity
provided to them by the government - something else that needs to end so as to
provide accountability. Having a review administered by Jane Halton is a conflict of
interest considering her involvement with CEPI and the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation. People who criticised or even queried the effectiveness of these
untested injections were subjected to bullying and censorship.
Waste of taxpayers money is disgraceful, but nothing compared to the reprehensible
treatment of the vaccine injured who are being gaslit and failed, unable to obtain
compensation from the Federal scheme. A close family friend, who took the vaccines
in good faith has now suffered myocarditis, pericarditis and failure of many organs.
Her doctor willingly admits it was the vaccines causing these injuries yet she now
has to run the exhausting gauntlet of trying to obtain some sort of compensation.
Meanwhile this has led to her marriage breakdown - another victim of government
over-reach and manipulation.
My friend is lucky to have her life, as Australia’s excess death toll has sky rocketed
and the Federal government are ignoring the toll by voting not to have an inquiry into
this. I believe that the TGA are not being honest in the numbers that have been killed
or injured by these vaccines. Corporate media have also played their role, firstly in
spreading the “safe and effective” message and next by not reporting, or covering up
the excess toll. The Australian Medical Professional’s Society held and inquiry
showing excess deaths are around 17%, yet the Federal government declines to
even look into this situation - the WA government’s own 2021 vaccine safety data
illustrates and proves the damage done.
I implore you to conduct a Royal Commission in COVID-19 measures, one that also
looks at the actions of the State Governments. The coercion and bullying of State
Premiers need to be addressed. States should not have been able to instil borders
that are not there, nor insult people who decline medial experiments, nor should they
be able to lock healthy people in their houses nor direct people to wear masks that
do more harm than good. The “scientific evidence” was kept secret, real science was
censored and crushed, human rights forgotten. The governments (both State and
Federal) ran a program (aided by main stream media and AHPRA) of censorship
and propaganda, while the TGA, being aware of red flags as early as March 2021
failed to warn the public of the many side effects, that could include death....and yet
still the public are being urged to have more of these injections!
Federal and State governments are elected by the people, and it’s Australians they
should serve - not bend over and give into corporate lobbyists for the
pharmaceutical companies. The COVID-19 measures undertaken by the Federal
and State Governments have been a dark period in Australia’s history and needs
addressing urgently if this is not to be repeated (exit the WHO for a start)!
