Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (Australia)
Public submission
                                                                      "Request to be De-identified




                                                                                        15 Dec 2023
Responding to Terms of Reference:


   •       Governance, including roles and responsibilities
   •       Key health response measures
   •       Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations


As a strong community advocate concerned at the impact of the National public health pandemic
RESPONSE vs the actual health impact of the SARS CoV-2 virus itself, it is important to highlight
that the lack of transparency from State and Federal governments, including the operations of
National Cabinet, through failing to provide evidence-based ‘health advice’ to the enquiring public,
severely limited the ability of Australians to assess their personal risk and manage their own
response as appropriate to their personal circumstances, which disproportionately affected
children, people of working age and the elderly and has inflicted long-lasting mental, social and
economic harms to society, the cost of which was never considered and has yet to be calculated.


‘One size does not fit all.’


Two fundamental questions were never clearly addressed to allow the public to make informed
decisions about their own health and safety:


   •       Who was MOST vulnerable to SARS-CoV-2 / covid?
   •       Was the government’s public health response PROPORTIONATE to the ACTUAL risk?


I refer to the following Queensland Health (‘QH’) document in support of my concerns:


       Queensland Health, Clinical Excellence Queensland
       COVID-19 Action Plan
       Statewide General Medicine Clinical Network Version 2
       April 24, 2020

       https://web.archive.Org/web/20200524103342/https://www.health.qld.gov.au/          data/asset
       s/pdf file/0039/959952/sgmcn-covid-19-action-plan.pdf A




                                       Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
‘Show us the health advice’


In October 2021, I shared screenshots and link to QH Covid19 Action Plan v4 ('CAP') to QH
FaceBook (‘FB’) page. The QH Social Media team warned me via FB DM (for sharing
government data??, screenshots below), then blocked the public’s ability to post pictures and
links on its FB page. QH then removed this CAP v4 file from its website and later blocked me
from its FB page in August 2022 for asking further questions in relation to individual risk factors
for covid. It is unethical for a taxpayer-funded SM platform to prevent the public from reasonably
engaging with its primary public health agency, denying them vital information during a public
health emergency.


     Queensland Health ©




   Some of your comments on our Facebook page have broken our comment policy.

   We don't allow comments that contain or promote false information or faux science
   or false representation of another individual, organisation, government or entity.
                                                                                         ©♦.      •
   You can find our house rules here: https://Qld.health/HouseRules

   Any future posts of a similar nature may lead to you being blocked from our page.

   Kind regards,
   QH social media team

                                                                              1108

                                                                            Please clarify which of my posts are false information?

                                                                            I am quoting data directly from QH website, COVID-19 Action Plan Statewide General
                                                                            Medicine Clinical Network V4
                                                                            October 12,2021, the National COVID19 Clinical Evidence Taskforce and
                                                                            health.gov.au ’Coronavirus (COVID-19) case numbers and statistics'.

                                                                            Which of those are false information?




        So age is the biggest risk factor for bowel cancer and only those
        people aged 50+ are recommended to have a screening test

        What is the biggest risk factor/s for severe disease/death from SARS
        CoV-2 virus?
        Like   Reply    Page responded privately   3h
                                                                                                                     Queensland Health O

                                       ithe focus isn't on covid. Stop deflecting
               Like    Reply   2h
                                                                                                                      You have continued to
                                                                                                                      break our House Rules.
                                            d to know we re no longer focussing on
                                                                                                                      This is your second and
                       covid. v
                                                                                                                      final warning. If you
                       When public comment has been closed under the daily                                            continue, you will be
                       reporting of covid statistics and given it is the taxpayer                                     blocked from this page.
                       funded department tasked with managing public health,
                       Queensland Health has a duty of care to respond to                                             Kind regards,
                       legitimate queries by the public on matters of public                                          QH social media team
                       health.

                       Instead it seeks to shut down these legitimate queries by                                                      09:01
                       sending warnings by PM that a member of the public will
                       be blocked from its page for merely asking a question                                                                              1
                                                                                                                             Please clarify which House
                       about who is most at risk from covid.                                                                 Rule has been broken by
                       Why is that?                                                                                        _ mv rnmmpnt seeking____



                                                               Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
My primary concern:


If the imperative was to 'follow the health advice', then why did QLD government seek to
withhold it from the public, preventing fair review of clinical data gathered from the lived
experiences of overseas jurisdictions, to justify the QH Public Health Directions, State of
Emergency and vaccine mandates, in apparent contradiction of the data in the CAP?


Importantly, referring to page 1 of the COVID-19 Action Plan -Statewide General Medicine
Clinical Network- Queensland Health_V2_ 24April 2020, (see A link above) QH KNEW back in
April 2020 that:


   •   Most cases of infection (80%) are mild and will not need hospitalisation, 10-15% are very
       sick and 2-5%> will require ICU admission and ventilation.
   ®   Severe cases and deaths are concentrated among older patients with co-morbidities,
   ®    There have been very few severe cases in children or pregnant women.
   •   Case fatality rate ranges from 1%> to 4%> overall depending on the denominator of
       ascertained cases but rises with age to 8%> in age group 70-79 years and to 15%> in those
       >80 years. Men are more likely to die (2.8%>) than women (1.7%>). Patients admitted to ICU
       and ventilated have a mortality rate as high as 50%>.


So QH authorities KNEW the SARS CoV2 virus was not deadly to ALL ages, but still proceeded to
issue public health directions that imposed unreasonable and excessive restrictions on ALL of
society, that were not supported by the QLD State government's own 'health advice'.


On that data, its own HEALTH ADVICE, (that it sought to keep from the public), was the QLD
State government's pandemic response proportionate to the ACTUAL risk?


Were medical professionals misled about the severity of covid and silenced by AHPRA in order to
promote mass vaccination and other unethical pandemic public health measures?


What is the relevance of this QH 'health advice' to the operations of "Health Practitioner Regulation
National Law and Other Legislation Amendment Bill 2022" (QLD) that guides National laws?


In closing: public trust in our systems of governance is preserved when politicians, bureaucrats
and health advocacy organisations treat all Australians with respect and are honest with them in
matters that affect them. A National Apology and compensation for mistakes made must be
forthcoming. Transparency and accountability must be prioritised if we are to regain trust in our
public institutions and encourage social cohesion in any future health emergencies.

                                        Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
