My name is Paul Desport                                                                       04.05.2022

In answering your questions and to the point, why my employment was terminated from my employer
during Covid 19. I was signed off on sick leave for                          y Dr             on the 16th
December 2021 from                         for                                         and
^^^^^^^Hthis was also before the deadline mandates for Covid 19 shots were in place by the
government and my employer.



My employer terminated my employment on 25th February 2022. After using up all my sick leave and
holiday entitlement up until the 25th February for not getting the Covid 19 shots before the supposed
deadline and being signed off with stress related leave due to the pressure to have a minimum of two
Covid 19 shots in place and on the grounds of health and safety at the time with no safety information
around at the time of Covid 19. Only mandates for all individuals to be done.



 I currently have a medical condition which is why I resisted the Covid 19 vaccination as            and
^^^Iboth had severe adverse reactions to the Covid 19 shots with my                  having
^^^^^^Bwhich ended her up in hospital to                    have severe swelling in her legs leaving her
in severe pain and unable to walk and complications to this day. This raised alarm bells for me to
highlight my concerns about Covid 19 if I had the covid 19 shots I too may be at risk due to my
^^^^|condition. I can also mention that I have been immunised with all my childhood vaccines so
I'm not against vaccinations just Covid 19 and so little information surrounding its safety at the time
and till this day.



The pressure and my medical condition affected me greatly in my job as a Trainer Assessor, that I
could not function properly in the roll. My doctor gave evidence to my employer stating my medical
condition and has further given me a further letter dated 14.04.2022 stating that my condition has
not improved due to my poor coping to my recent stressors, I have attached his letter for you as
further evidence in my case. My                    which is a heart defect from birth and was advised
needs to be checked annually after a medical scare in early November 2021 that required
hospitalisation for



I was kept in the hospital and monitored for over twelve hours
should also be on my records for you to check, it required an ambulance for me to get to the Hospital.
I was advised to get checked annually in case my symptoms worsened and may require further medical
attention as I get older. This was confirmed by my cardiology^^^^^^^^ &
16/06/2021.
I also had aon the 10th November 2021 and reported back on 11th
November 2021 by                   requesting a further test to be follow up six weeks later checking
for any blood clotting this came back as non-conclusive which raised concerns. I was instructed the
next test would be done on December 23rd, 2021; atthis would have also
been slowed down due to the Christmas break for any results to be returned and even more pressure
from my employer for me to get the Covid 19 shots before the deadline in January 2022.



In regards to my divorce on Christmas 2021, after thirty-three years of marriage that came to an end
that year this also had a great impact on my health and further added to my medical condition being
unable to do my job with the anxiety and pressure to get the covid 19 shots and personal family life
trauma this was by far the worst time of my life which involved some counselling for support to get
through this touch time. I felt that my world was falling apart and felt very isolated as at the same
time restrictions were also in place in shops, pubs or any social gatherings would restrict my
movement and my condition worsened.



My employer threatening me with termination of employment whilst it was not mandatory at that
time to do so, this additional pressure on me added to my employer not taking into consideration my
health status at that time. I'm currently looking for employment in a variety of job sectors that I may
be able to do with my condition to try improving my well fair and keeping in regular contact with my
doctor and my Psychologist                    for additional support. I hope my personal information
may support and add to a speedy claim in the future. I'm also considering further action for unfair
dismissal from my employer during that time while on sick leave with evidence of discrimination
dismissal with a doctor's letters for support my case.



Kind Regards

Paul Anthony Desport
