After I had lost my employment and community client, I was left unemployed. At this stage my mum was
terminally ill in hospital and at times I would be locked out of the hospital because I wasn't covid jabbed.
Also, my mum came back from ICU in hospital and the nurses called me at home to come in to be by her
side but Annastasia Palisha Labor Premier decided I wasn't allowed to entre the hospital as I was a risk to
my terminally ill mother. Also, when my mother went into hospice care at an aged facility I was again
locked out from being beside my mum who only had weeks to live. When I was allowed to visit her, I had
to wear full protective plastic clothing, mask, googles! It was insane. And again, covid went through the
aged care home and I didn't catch it at all even though I wasn't covid jabbed.

This was the most stressful time of my life, and I was repeatedly treated like a leper. I also had to wear
plastic gloves and was told not to touch my mother. She was dying from cancer for goodness' sake! My
mother died a few weeks later.

Also, during covid my uncle passed from a short cancer diagnosis. At his funeral only a small number of
people were allowed to attend. If the number went above 100 guests at the door and on the stairs, we
turned away from paying their last respects.

The tv was spreading fear mongering. Do not talk to your neighbors, do not leave your house, do not
wave to anyone across the street. Such an isolating and lonely time for many.

As the months went by, my community client called me and asked me to return to work. He and his wife
and two adult children were all covid jabbed and they all had a bout of covid. So, I went back to my job
of support work.

So many of my nursing friends left the profession because they we being forced to take the trial vaccine.
The way this entire show was handled is disturbing. Even now our Pediatrician wont see us face to face
only via phone can because he's bothered by us that were not covid jabbed.

This is against the law to force a vaccine onto humans. Also my daughter 23 was forced to be jabbed
through working in childcare and now has a chronic illness of hypothyroidism and fibromyalgia. How
terrible for so many young people to have these new illnesses that only happened after covid jabs. Its
shocking!
