The Office of Prime Minister and Cabinet

Re: The Covid Inquiry

                    To Whom it may Concern

Thank you for the opportunity to send in a submission relating to the Covid 19
Response Inquiry. I am a retired Pharmacist who has spent much of my time
researching Covid from the beginning. I find that a week to collate a submission with
evidence is way too short a timeframe. I know that other submissions will contain the
evidence that I raise questions to, so I have asked some questions about the
management of the whole Covid Response that I really can’t believe any rational and
honest Government and associated departments could accidentally have got so
wrong for so long.

I am requesting a full Royal Commission into the whole Covid-19 response to gain a
truly independent investigation into the reasons and research that directed all the
management decisions, undertaken by the Federal and State Governments and
Territories and all the various key stakeholder departments that implemented a
pandemic management plan that played out with ‘yet to be publicly acknowledged’
horrendous consequences.

Assessing the severity and transmissibility of a potential pandemic disease should
be an honest and transparent process. In early March 2020, I was capable of
assessing that the risk profile of the Covid-19 disease was predominantly elderly
people with multiple comorbities. Why couldn’t the “experts” research well enough to
work that out?

Protecting vulnerable people doesn’t mean closing businesses down and locking the
majority of the population up. It means giving the small proportion of the population
who were vulnerable, an ability to be taken care of as needed within the parameters
of respecting human rights and dignity and the freedom to choose to be part of the
protected population or not.

Why was the mask mandated when the evidence of its efficacy was sadly lacking?

Why suddenly was a PCR test, known not to be a diagnostic test, allowed to
diagnose disease? Why was a PCR test alone, able to diagnose an asymptomatic
case when an infectious disease has to have symptoms to confirm an illness? And
why did the PCR test probe have to be pushed so far up the nasal passage? Why
wasn’t the PCR testing cycles capped at the level that might have had a chance of
being close to correct?

Why was Professorignored when he presented to many key
stakeholders, a cheap and effective way of boosting the population’s immune system
with nutraceuticals? Why were effective and safe repurposed drugs made illegal to
use in Australia? Was it because provisional approval of a fast-tracked ‘vaccine’ was
not possible if there were effective treatments?
Why were genetically modified gene agents allowed to brought into Australia at all
without assessment, let alone be made mandatory to keep one’s job?

Why would our country sign a secret contract with a pharmaceutical company to buy
fast-tracked novel “vaccines” that fit the definition of a GMO?

Why would the Government promote misinformation throughout all media outlets and
marketing campaigns in regards to the ability of vaccines to prevent transmission
and block infection? The TGA Auspar documents clearly stated that many essential
outcomes were not even tested. Why would vaccine injuries be denied by the TGA
and those in the community that were injured not be heard?

Why did all departments and organisations involved in pushing the vaccines, not do
their due diligence and interpret the data that was available to them, in a scientific,
transparent and truthful manner?

Why was the medical profession as a whole effectively silenced by AHPRA and
ATAGI? Why are the doctors being prevented from diagnosing injuries and deaths
clearly related to the vaccines? Why were doctors threatened if they used Ivermectin
that saved lives of Covid patients?

There needs to be a comprehensive, independent, full Royal Commission into the
handling of the Covid situation as a whole, involving all Governments, their
departments and organisations involved in the management of the “pandemic”. Until
that is completed, Australia should reject all IHR amendments and the W.H.O. ‘so
called’ pandemic treaty.

Above all, returning to a democratic society underpinned by the Nuremberg Code is
essential to a healthy community. Private public partnerships result in governmental
decisions which are in the best interests of the private stakeholders instead of the
individuals which make up a community. That is what our forefathers and my
ancestors fought for in WW1 and WW2. Our children and grandchildren etc have a
right to a democratic Australia in which to live.

Thankyou
