To: Australian Government Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet

Re: Submission to the Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry



Terms of reference addressed in this submission:
Key health response measures of the maternity sector in Victoria and
associated impacts on maternal and newborn health outcomes


Author: Professor Lisa Hui MBBS PhD FRANZCOG CMFM DDU

I live and work in^^^^^^^which was subject to the strictest lockdown conditions in the
country. As a clinical academic in maternal fetal medicine, I monitored the impacts of the
Victorian COVID-19 response on maternal and newborn outcomes through my roles with
the Victorian Consultative Council on Obstetric and Paediatric Mortality and Morbidity, the
University of Melbourne, Mercy Health, Northern Health, and the Murdoch Children's
Research Institute.

Evidence: The data provided in this submission is publicly available in peer reviewed scientific
publications and state government commissioned reports listed in the references below.


The challenges for the maternity sector In Victoria

Metropolitan Melbourne experienced one of the longest and most stringent lockdown
conditions in the world during the COVID-10 pandemic. However, the maternity sector in
Melbourne had to continue providing hospital-based in-patient and outpatient care for
~4000 births per month.

Pregnant women are a medically vulnerable population as they have increased risks of
severe morbidity and mortality from COVID-19 infection. Maternal COVID-19 infection also
increases risks for the unborn baby, such as preterm birth and stillbirth.

Numerous modifications to pregnancy care were adopted during the pandemic to mitigate
the anticipated strain on maternity health services and reduce infection risks to patients and
staff. These included rapid transition to telehealth, hospital visitor restrictions, increasing
the interval between in-person visits, reducing face-to-face appointment time, changes to
gestational diabetes screening, and ultrasound surveillance of fetal growth. There was also a
dramatic reduction in hospital length of stay for mothers and babies during the pandemic.

The COVID-19 vaccine roll-out to pregnant women was delayed until June 2021 due to
concerns about lack of safety data in pregnancy. Similarly, the inclusion of pregnant women
in clinical trials of COVID-19 therapies was delayed, and only overcome after intense
advocacy from the maternity sector.
The successes

•   In Victoria, there were no maternal deaths directly attributable to COVID-19 infection in
    2020-2022.
•   Telehealth consultations supported the maintenance of antenatal and postnatal visits
    throughout the pandemic.(1)
•   In Victoria, COVID-19 vaccination rates in pregnant women exceeded 85% within 12
    months, surpassing rates of other high-income countries such as UK and USA.(2,3)
•   The adjusted odds of stillbirth, preterm birth, and neonatal intensive care admission
    were significantly reduced among infants born to COVID-19 vaccinated women
    compared with unvaccinated women. We did not observe any adverse impacts of
    vaccination on fetal growth or development.(3)


The concerns

•   The 2020 Melbourne lockdown was associated with a significant increase in preterm
    stillbirths and a significant reduction in medically indicated preterm birth for fetal
    compromise. This suggests that our pandemic response may have led to a failure to
    identify and appropriately care for patients at an increased risk of stillbirth. (4)
•   COVID-19 vaccine coverage among pregnant people was significantly influenced by
    known social determinants of health, including country of birth, socioeconomic status,
    and age. This was associated with worse pregnancy outcomes for unvaccinated women,
    exacerbating health inequities. (3)
•   There was a sharp withdrawal of hospital-based abortion services after the cancellation
    of elective surgery at the end of March 2020. The availability of outpatient abortion was
    important for maintaining access during the COVID-19 pandemic. (5)
•   Despite mandatory data collection on all births from 20 weeks gestation, timely state­
    wide data collection and reporting back to maternity services during the pandemic was
    not available. A research collaboration of all 12 public maternity services in Melbourne
    was formed to fill this gap (the Collaborative Maternity and Newborn Dashboard for the
    COVID-19 Pandemic), funded by philanthropy. (6,7) This CoMaND project has produced
    13 reports to date to inform health services and policy makers on perinatal outcomes.(8)
•   The reduction in hospital length of stay for mothers and babies has persisted well
    beyond the end of lockdown restrictions.(2) It has been associated with a statistically
    significant increase in unplanned hospital readmissions of infants.


Key recommendations for maternity care

•   Access to population-based maternal and newborn data through government sources is
    currently too slow to inform a future pandemic response. No system exists for the timely
    detection of congenital anomalies that might arise from future pandemics. A
    comprehensive maternity and newborn surveillance system will require a whole-of-
    government approach to overcome structural barriers to data collection and reporting.
•   Maternal and newborn health inequities due to socioeconomic disadvantage were
    exacerbated during the pandemic. This was reflected in vaccination coverage and
     associated perinatal outcomes. More work needs to be done to engage with vulnerable
     populations to improve trust in health authorities and safeguard access to healthcare.
•    Further analysis of the impact of shorter hospital length of stay should be conducted to
     understand the consumer experience and the effect on infant readmission rates and
     breastfeeding.
•    Automatic clinical trial exclusion due to pregnancy should not be the norm in future
     pandemics. Pregnant people can be safely included in clinical trials and should have the
     same access to life-saving therapies and evidence-based care as other individuals. (8)

References

1.   Potenza S, Marzan MB, Rolnik DL, et al. Business as usual during the COVID-19
     pandemic? Reflections on state-wide trends in maternity telehealth consultations during
     lockdown in Victoria and New South Wales. Aust N Z J Obstet Gynaecol. 2021
     Dec;61(6):982-985. doi: 10.1111/ajo.l3438.
2.   Safer Care Victoria COVID-19 communique A report on maternal and newborn outcomes
     during the COVID-19 pandemic. Hui L, Marzan M, Davey M, et al.
     https://www.safercare.vic.gov.au/reports-and-publications/covid-19-communique
3.   Hui L, Marzan MB, Rolnik DL, et al. Reductions in stillbirths and preterm birth in COVID-
     19-vaccinated women: a multicenter cohort study of vaccination uptake and perinatal
     outcomes. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2023 May;228(5):585.el-585.el6..
4.   Hui L, Marzan MB, Potenza S, et al. Increase in preterm stillbirths in association with
     reduction in iatrogenic preterm births during COVID-19 lockdown in Australia: a
     multicenter cohort study. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2022 Sep;227(3):491.el-491.el7.
5.   Marzan MB, Johnson E, Moore P, Jiang H, Hui L. Changes in the numbers of hospital­
     based abortions and outpatient early medical abortions in Victoria, 2012-22: a
     retrospective cohort study. Medical Journal of Australia 2024. Accepted, in press.
6.   Hui L, Marzan MB, Potenza S, et al. Collaborative maternity and newborn dashboard
     (CoMaND) for the COVID-19 pandemic: a protocol for timely, adaptive monitoring of
     perinatal outcomes in Melbourne, Australia. BMJ Open. 2021 Nov 23;ll(ll):e055902.
7.   Hui L, Marzan MB, Potenza S, Rolnik DL, Said JM, Palmer KR, Whitehead CL, Sheehan PM,
     Ford J, Pritchard N, Mol BW, Walker SP. Collaborative maternity and newborn dashboard
     (CoMaND) for the COVID-19 pandemic: Report #13 (period ending April 30, 2022.
8.   Hui L, Whitehead C, Walker SP. Evidence and advocacy in Melbourne maternity care
     during the COVID-19 pandemic. Med J Aust. 2021 Nov l;215(9):433-434.
