Personally, I do not wish this covid inquiry to be a whitewash. People need an appropriate Royal
Commission to address points like those I have raised below, plus of course, many others.



Complaint about covid inquiry submissions deadline:

There has been insufficient time to enable enough people to make a submission - especially
considering this is happening in the lead up to Christmas. I would like to know why the cut-off date
is December 15th when we know that officials will not be looking at any submissions over the
Christmas period.



Government lies and propaganda:

I would like to refer tocomment in 2021 as an example, i.e. "if you don't get
vaccinated, the virus will hunt you down". Where were the media calling out this brazenly
unscientific, fearmongering nonsense that was purely designed to terrorize Australian citizens?
Nothing was said in the media about this disgusting manipulation. This is just one example of what
is essentially a crime, or at best: government "misinformation" to generate fear.

Personally, like many unvaccinated people, I have never had covid and remain healthy. The virus
failed to "hunt me down".

As a scientist, I find it deeply repulsive that science has been completely disregarded and suppressed
in favour of "THE Science" and it is heretical to question "TH^Science^^^d^cience" was
presented by questionable "experts" I ike                 (VIC),                     Such "experts"
were previously unknown in international scientific circles, did not attend conferences and were not
published renown scientists. These reprehensible people were more PR people put in place to
mislead the public. At the same time, actual REAL experts in their fields of virology, medicine and
science were censored, vilified, denigrated and grossly mistreated by the media and governments if
they dared to speak out.



Vaccine Mandates:

I don't believe it is possible to have a covid inquiry without discussing vaccine mandates. The federal
government might not have mandated anything, but they enabled state governments to brutally
enforce mandates and financed them to do so. Mandating an experimental vaccine breaks
international human rights laws such as the Nuremberg Code and is just plain morally reprehensible.
I want to see the right to bodily autonomy restored via a legitimate Royal Commission into covid.

My personal experience involved being fired from my job over Zoom for being unvaccinated. My
career of 13.5 years was over and the personal effects in my desk were posted to me. The very
legitimate reasons I gave for refusing vaccination were all labelled "irrelevant", including the fact
that my^^^^lied from a covid vaccine. This experience haunts me to this day. I was 7 years away
from retiring when I was fired. I have not worked since and by the time I reach retirement age my
superannuation will be gone. I am just one person this has happened to. How is this good for the
country???

There needs to be a reckoning for everyone who unfairly lost their jobs, businesses and livelihoods.
What exactly is the role of the Police?:

Do the police serve the public, or do they serve the government? I never thought it would ever be
possible in a Western country to witness the police acting in such a barbaric way towards their
fellow Australians. If Putin were to engage Russian forces to brutalise the public like the VIC police
did for instance, there would be an outcry across the world. Instead, we saw silence from the media
and protests against the tyranny (numbering over 700,000 in Melbourne one weekend) were
mentioned on the ABC as "several thousand people" and dismissed as being inconsequential. In
Victoria, we witnessed tanks on the streets and unarmed people being shot with rubber bullets or
individuals attacked by multiple police, one of whom had his back broken. People have suffered
enormous physical harm for their legitimate right to protest.

Why can't the police arrest harmless, unarmed people while they are standing up? Is it REALLY
necessary for the police to wrestle women, men and children to the ground and sit on their backs?
It is not a spectacle I wish to see on the streets of Australia and I would like to see the inquiry take
up this issue of police brutality. Seriously, what on earth has happened to respect and dignity for
people? The general public ARE NOT CRIMINALS for goodness sake. Even criminals deserve better
treatment.

Over the last 4 years, the police have acted merely as an enforcement arm of the government. I
don't know what makes anyone think that this is acceptable in the 21st century. People need to
know whether the notion of the police serving the public is over for good.



Discrimination:

Unvaccinated people were banned from libraries, swimming pools, sports fields, yoga classes,
council buildings, recreational events, etc. whilst being forced to pay council tax for the places they
were banned from. There needs to be compensation paid to rate payers who were so unjustifiably
discriminated against and unfairly treated.

Many unvaccinated people are still to this day, banned from all family gatherings including Christmas
day (myself included). The mental cost for some people has been too much and they have
committed suicide. People in government need to be held accountable for this outcome. It was
politicians and the media who created the climate of fear that continues in some people to this day.



The role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors:
           organisations such as AHPRA and ATAGI do not have the consent of the people to operate
in Australia. I would like one outcome from this inquiry to be the banning of such^^^^^H
organisations that act against the interests of the Australian people.



ABC and media propaganda:

Disgraceful media organisations, especially the tax payer funded ABC, have not acted in the public
interests throughout the covid era. Instead, the media have acted instead for foreign
pharmaceutical interests and spread lies and misinformation. Presenting the covid "vaccine" as the
one and only solution to covid was quite frankly criminal when plenty of alternatives existed. If
there was a real pandemic, then surely you would throw everything available at it instead of waiting
for an untested vaccine?

Instead of the media calling people "conspiracy theorists" for instance, why can't they employ
investigative journalism to question everything? Why can't the often outstanding credentials of said
"conspiracy theorists" be considered?



Financial:

Tax payers have borne the cost of shameful government advertisements such as "Don't kill your
Granny, get a vaccine" for instance, while the so-called vaccine was never tested for transmission.
Where is the accountability for such betrayal of the Australian people?

Politicians have also paid billions of tax payer dollars to foreign pHarmaceutical corporations for at
least 10 doses of untested, experimental covid vaccines for every person in Australia. Again, where
is the accountability for the massive debt this has created for the country? So many people are
permanently injured or dead from experimental covid "vaccines" and again, the tax payer is left with
the financial cost. There needs to be accountability so that this NEVER happens again.



Yours sincerely,

Carol Clethero BSc (Hons) Biochemistry, MSc (Genetics), now Unemployed due to covid mandates
