While this inquiry is welcome, I believe that it does not go far enough to investigate the collusion
domestically and internationally that led to the strange and damaging reactions of government to
the covid pandemic. A more comprehensive inquiry such as a royal commission must occur for the
results to be trusted. The Government of Australia owes its people a thorough review of the actions
taken by government, corporations and independent authorities during the pandemic.

It is important that this inquiry does not conclude that a number of individuals made a number of
mistakes which resulted in poor outcomes. The inquiry must consider that there should be systems
and procedures in place that prevent or correct errors of policy through review and constant
monitoring. The failings of the Covid pandemic are systemic failures, at best it was government
needing to be seen as doing something, at worst it was deliberate transfer of wealth from the public
to private organisations for zero benefit to the people. We all still got covid, the vulnerable got is
worse than the vast majority of the previously healthy and now there are excess death signals that
seem to be being ignored by government.

Australia had a Pandemic plan in place, any inquiry should look at the plan that was not followed and
at the effect of the actions taken that were not included in the Pandemic Plan, e.g. lock-downs.

Any future planning for pandemics should ensure that fear within the community is minimised not
amplified to achieve compliance. The enquiry must investigate when it was clear that this was
primarily a disease that affected older people and how the government and media continued to
suggest that everyone was of equal risk. Pandemic responses need to achieve a measured and calm
response from the community. The Covid response has destroyed trust in government for a growing
number of people. Government can only get this trust back by developing incorruptible oversight
through transparency of who is involved and the data on which decisions are being made. Without
this step the next pandemic response will likely need to be an authoritarian response that destroys
Australian's individual rights.

Covid viruses are not new. The inquiry must investigate the suppression of cost-effective existing
treatments. The Inquiry must also review government messaging about health. Where was the
government messaging about getting exercise, vitamin D, natural immunity, etc which have been
shown to be effective against covid particularly for those Australians already relatively healthy.

The inquiry must investigate manipulation of the media by governments to supress alternative
approaches to managing a pandemic response.

The inquiry must look at the relationships between business and government and the ability of these
organisations to "capture" the government. Whether that is through lobbying, future employment
possibilities, or just the fact that government officials rely on the pharmaceutical companies for
information.

Critical thinking on a range of fronts seemed to be suspended during covid and those who did raise
questions were persecuted, ridiculed, and penalised. Any pandemic plan needs to have the ability to
review actions in real time so that damage from poor actions can be minimalised.

The Inquiry needs to look at where governments preferred the advice of international bodies such as
the WHO and the American FDA over our TGA. The government needs to show that we are a
sovereign nation that makes its own decisions through a transparent process.

The Inquiry needs to establish why our existing pandemic response plan was ignored and a more
authoritarian approach was taken.
The inquiry needs to ensure that bodily autonomy is maintained without penalty during every
pandemic. The issues that have been caused by lockdowns, vaccination reactions, suspension of
schools, loss of employment, suspension of other medical treatments during the pandemic show
that the benefit of these actions can turn out to do just as much or more harm than good. Therefore
people need to be given the freedom to choose their own way of dealing with the pathogen involved
in the pandemic.

The inquiry must look at fraudulent and misleading articles published in medical journals . The
compromising of trusted organisations such as the AMA and medical journals needs to be addressed
otherwise governments and individuals will be left with no trustable information on which to base
decisions.

The inquiry must ensure that government cannot be suspended under the declaration of an
emergency. There must be a way of stopping the long-term suspension of democracy.

Any pandemic response system needs to be transparent to the community and allow dissenting
voices a process for involvement in any pandemic response.

The pandemic response must ensure that actions are not taken just for their optics. Masks have
been shown to have no effectiveness against covid but it appears that the optics of "doing
something" was more important than facts in this case. The amount of waste generated by the
production of disposal masks is an environmental disaster for no benefit.

The inquiry needs to consider how dissenting voices can be included in any pandemic response.

In terms of the scope of this inquiry none of these steps would have been required if we took what
we previously knew about Covid viruses and applied these treatments to the Covid 19 virus. After
the first month of the Covid outbreak the government could have calmly said there is a new covid
virus but we can see it is affecting almost exclusively those in the older age groups and those with
pre-existing conditions, we will take actions to protect those people and allow everyone else to
continue their lives.

Australia is a more divided, poorer and unhealthier place due to Australia's Covid response. Anyone
who still believes we did the best we could with the information available at the time is ignoring the
dissenting voices that have been there since day one and are ignoring the multitude of legitimate
studies showing the negative outcomes from decisions made during the pandemic.

It is my fear that the scope of this inquiry suggested an underlying premise that the actions taken
were correct but perhaps could have been done more efficiently. I would say that the incorrect
decision to contradict the Pandemic Plan and lock-down the community led to the need for all these
support schemes. If the government acts with critical thinking rather than a panic there will be much
less need for these interventions.



In Summary, there are many more areas of the Covidl9 Pandemic response that need review. The
scope of this review is inadequate. The Australian government owes it to the Australian people, on
whose behalf they have been complicit in the spending of billions of taxpayers dollars, to broaden
this inquiry to cover all of the aspects I have raised and many others I have not included in this
submission.
