Dear committee members,

Given how I have been impacted by the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, I am grateful for
the opportunity to make this submission.

I lost my job as a result the vaccination mandates. I had a medical exemption but my
employer refused to accept it, based on their own medical person disagreeing (without ever
consulting with me) with my doctor's professional opinion.

The fact that this was allowed to happen I find appalling. The Commonwealth should have
upheld the privacy provisions of the law. It should never be anyone's right to force me to
disclose either medical information or which treatments I have or haven't received.

As a result of this termination, I have now been unemployed for more than a year and the
financial hardship we are experiencing is not insignificant.

A lot of the decision making of government was based on modelling. There is a huge issue
with this. I used to work in IT. I am familiar with models. You can make a model produce just
about any kind of data. It isn't possible to back-test these pandemic models because we
haven't had a pandemic in a century. So, the models created where full of assumptions. And
these models were not made available for public scrutiny. I remember vividly the front page
of the Sydney Morning Herald, probably in early 2020: 150,000 people may die!

The model that this was based upon came from England and a long time later was
completely rubbished by experts. But, people remember the headline. The media did a
great job doing what they do best: create fear and anxiety. This may well have influenced
the government's decision making. On the one hand it may have influenced decision
makers, if they took the fear mongering on board, to make ill-informed or over the top
decisions, on the other hand, you can force all sorts of draconian measures on a scared
populace without much push-back.

In my view, the government should have taken a much more moderate approach. We have
a problem in this country with the division of responsibilities. The way I understand the
basics of the way Australia operates, the states are responsible for Health. In a situation like
a pandemic, I think that is not manageable. The responsibility and accountability should be
with a single level of government. It's non-sensical that people in one state are made to do
one thing and people in another state something else.

I must compliment the government on its policies to support small and medium businesses.
The money that was given (rather than loaned, like in other countries) has really helped the
SMB sector largely survive. The only comment I would like to make here is that for large
companies just gifting them the money was a step too far. Sure, it was important for i.e.
QANTAS to survive but they should have been made to repay this tax payer money once
they returned a very sizeable profit.

Another issue I would like to raise is that it was most peculiar that the government
restricted doctors in how they could treat this disease. I'm not one to immediately jump on
the conspiracy theory bandwagon but one does start to wonder when doctors are forbidden
to prescribe medications that they, in their professional experience, know have always
worked for Corona viruses (after all, SARS COV2 was not the first Corona virus we
encountered). There was an almost religious fascination with vaccination, it was held as the
only way out.

We can now see that that may not have been such a wholesome thought but even back in
the day a little more level-headed approach and sound understanding of medicine and how
immune systems actually work should have led to a far less dictatorial approach to the
vaccination issue.
I, for one, find it almost impossible to believe that well-educated medical experts would
have ever truly believed that a brand-new vaccine, made with a technology that had never
been used in vaccines before (mRNA) could be sold to the public as 'safe and effective'
when there was not even medium term safety data available. To be told with a straight face,
day after day, news bulletin after press conference, that if you take this you won't get sick
and you won't be able to transmit it was such a stretch of the imagination that now, looking
back, I can't even believe it happened. The reality was starkly different. Almost everyone got
Covid at some time or another and quite happily passed it on.

I thank you for your time and hope that my submission in some small way may help your
enquiry.

Kind regards,
