                                             COVID SUBMISSION




At the time of Covid, I was a long term employee of a pharmacy with 20 years experience.

In the beginning, 'the jab' was not compulsory.

It was hard to ignore the number of customers who began to present at the pharmacy with a variety of
symptoms after having received their injection. For example; unexplained rashes all over the body, chest
pains, unbearable headaches, people previously healthy not being able to work due to the severity of their
symptoms.

As time went on, we heard firsthand from customers who told us of young people they knew and family
members who died unexpectedly within a short time of having received the injection. We supplied
medications to the Aged Care facility in our suburb and we noticed a marked increase of deaths compared to
previous years.

Numerous people I know had recurring bouts of Covid, after the injection they were assured by Government
Health authorities, would prevent them from getting Covid. I was alarmed at what I heard and saw and
began to research and listen to highly qualified doctors who were warning of the dangers of taking the
vaccines because of grave damage it would do to their natural immune system. I then determined that
under no circumstance I would allow anything that had not gone through the previously required rigorous
testing for medicines.

When the take-up of the government's offer was not welcomed by many concerned citizens it was then
made mandatory. The government began applying great pressure and incentives to Employers to force and
coerce their employees to take the jab or else.

I explained genuine reasons to my Employer for refusing the jab however, my concerns were dismissed and I
personally experienced sustained coercion, belittlement, and pressure from the Pharmacist.

When I continued to refuse, I was advised I should not present for work unless I was prepared to take the jab.
I was consequently presented with a letter of dismissal. Long Service Leave was quickly used on living
expenses and without any income I had to resort to using my savings to get by. This has been a huge
financial setback for me and my husband who was on a part-pension.

I did get Covid, as did              We would describe it as a prolonged flu. Neither of us had 'the jab' and
both of us returned to perfect health in a short space of time. Neither of us had a repeat bout of Covid
which is the opposite experience to many of our 'jabbed' friends; many of who have had several recurrences
of Covid.

The government has grossly overstepped the rights of its citizens in this matter. Covid WAS a concern for
those with already compromised immune systems but NOT to the general public at large. We were sold a lie
by the Australian Government and many people have died and countless people's health have been
destroyed because of this experimental vaccine.
