        Xx CarersTAS
                Australia




Carers Tasmania’s Submission on the Commonwealth
     Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




                 November 2023
About Carers Tasmania
Carers Tasmania is the Peak Body representing the more than 80,0 0 informal carers
(hereafter carers) in the state.
Carers Tasmania’s vision is for an Australia that values and supports carers.
Our mission is to work to improve the health, wellbeing, resilience and financial security of
carers and to ensure that caring is a shared responsibility of family, community, and
government.
Our values drive everything we think, say, and do.

   •   Carers first - we listen to what carers need, commit to their desired action plan, and
       deliver results that matter most to carers
   •   Care in all we do - we care for our work, about each other, about Tasmania’s family
       and friend carers, and the bigger world we all share
   •   Integrity always - we are transparent, act ethically, own when things don’t go to
       plan and do what we say we will
   •   Quality every time - we don’t accept ‘good enough’ because carers deserve our
       very best every time
   •       Speed that matters - we are agile and don’t put off what can be done today.
These values represent how we engage with and serve carers, how we work with each
other, and our commitment to the broader community. Carers Tasmania encourages
partnership with governments and health and community sectors to enhance service
provision and improve conditions for family or friend carers through policy development,
research and advocacy.
We acknowledge and support people of all genders, sexualities, cultural beliefs, and abilities
and understand that carers in Tasmania, whilst sharing the common theme of caring for a
family member or friend, are diverse individuals with varying beliefs, experiences, and
identities. We value and respect the diversity of carers, their lived and living experiences,
and recognise that carers are the experts in their own lives.
Carers Tasmania has offices in Moonah, Launceston, and Burnie.




Please direct any enquiries about this report to:


Samantha Fox
Chief Executive Officer
Phone:
Email:




Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry           2
Contents
1.   Background....................................................................................................................... 4
2.   Introduction....................................................................................................................... 5
3.   Significant impacts oncarers............................................................................................. 5
4.   Response to the Inquiry.................................................................................................... 7
5.   Recommendations............................................................................................................ 8




Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                   3
    1.      Background
Carers Tasmania is the Peak Body representing the more than 80,000 informal carers within
the state.
A carer is a person who provides unpaid care and support to a family member, or friend, with
disability, mental ill health, a chronic or life-limiting condition, alcohol or other drug
dependence, or who is frail or aged. Informal kinship carers who care for a child under the
age of 18, because the parent is unable to, are also recognised as carers. Carers are
predominantly family members, but may also be friends, neighbours, or colleagues. Informal
carers are not to be confused with paid support workers who are often called ‘carers’, with
the difference being that support workers are fully employed and remunerated with all the
benefits of employment. On the contrary, informal carers perform their caring duties without
remuneration, other than minimal carer payments and allowances from the Australian
Government.
In addition to representing carers through the Peak Body activities, Carers Tasmania
provides support to carers living in Tasmania through its service delivery arm, Care2Serve.
The Commonwealth Carer Gateway program is delivered through Care2Serve in Tasmania,
as are other supports and services, such as the Tasmanian Government’s Home and
Community Care program.
The Carer Gateway program provides a range of services and supports for carers which are
designed to build resilience, increase wellbeing, improve quality of life, and sustain carers to
effectively continue their caring roles. The available supports include the provision of
information, advice and referrals, holistic identification of carer strengths and needs through
a carer support planning process, professional counselling, peer support, and coaching
which aims to support carers in achieving specific goals.
Care2Serve, through the Carer Gateway, has the capacity to fund certain instances of
planned, practical support services such as in-home respite, personal care, domestic
assistance, and meal preparation. Care2Serve may also fund items such as laptops to assist
carers who are studying or trying to enter the workforce. Care2Serve also coordinates the
provision of emergency support during instances where a carer may be unable to provide
the care that they usually do, resulting from unexpected illness or injury of the carer.




Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry          4
    2.        Introduction
Carers Tasmania welcomes the opportunity to provide feedback on the Commonwealth
Government’s COVID-19 Inquiry (the Inquiry). The impacts of COVID-19 have been
significant and wide-reaching; however, there have been many lessons learned. This Inquiry
provides an opportunity to transform the negative experiences associated with COVID-19
into positive planning and safeguarding for the future. We must learn from these experiences
and ensure that disaster preparedness plans are developed. These plans must specifically
acknowledge at-risk cohorts, such as carers, who felt unrecognised during the pandemic
despite their additional needs.
Carers Tasmania’s response highlights some significant impacts experienced by carers and
makes recommendations to be considered in any pandemic or disaster preparedness
planning.

    3.        Significant impacts on carers
The following points have been collated from various surveys of carers and highlight the
impacts and increased responsibilities carers faced during the pandemic.

Tasmanian COVID Impact Survey 2022
Carer responses:

    •    Most carers (43.5%) preferred TV or radio to keep them up to date with information
         about COVID-19. This was especially true for 54.9% of carers aged 65 or older.
    •    50.4% of carers indicated there was nobody else who could step in for them in their
         caring role.
    •    59.5% of carers chose to self-isolate to protect those they were caring for during the
         pandemic.
    •        79.5% of carers reported feeling emotionally drained.
    •    61 % of carers reported their expenses increased following the opening of the
         Tasmanian borders.
    •    13.8% of carers reported partial job loss and 2.7% completely lost their job during the
         pandemic.
    •    8.3% of carers with a school-aged child indicated they intended to continue home­
         schooling their child despite schools re-opening.
    •        75.8% of employed carers had not been provided the option to work from home.1

Carer Wellbeing Survey 2022
Carer responses:

    •    74.2% of carers reduced their social interaction to protect those they cared for during
         the pandemic.
    •        72.2% of carers indicated their caring responsibilities increased.
    •        63.9% of carers reported increased levels of isolation.
    •        61.5% of carers had reduced access to formal support services.2



1 Carers Tasmania. (2022). Carers Tasmania COVID Impact Survey 2022. https://carerstas.org/wp-
content/uploads/2023/08/Carers-Tasmania-COVI D-lmpact-Survey-2022-Report-.pdf
2 Schirmer, J., Mylek, M., & Miranti, R. (2022). Caring for Others and Yourself: 2022 Carer Wellbeing Survey. Full
data report Carers Australia. https://www.carersaustralia.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/2022-CWS-Full-
Report_221010_FINAL.pdf

Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                            5
National Carer Survey 2022
Carer responses:

    •   44.8% of carers were separated from their loved ones for long periods of time during
        the pandemic (this was mostly within the context of hospitals or residential aged care
        facilities).
    •   67.5% of carers of people with disability experienced a reduction or cessation of
        support during the pandemic. This was also the case for 42% of carers supporting
        someone accessing mental health services, and 40.4% of carers supporting
        someone accessing aged care services.3

Caring Fairly Coalition COVID-19 Survey 2020
Carer responses:

    •    60% of carers lost the usual supports provided for the person they care for during the
         pandemic.
    •       44% of carers indicated they spent an increased amount of time on unpaid care.
    •       81 % of carers reported their personal mental health had deteriorated.
    •    52% of carers indicated their stress levels had increased either by a lot or an extreme
         amount.
    •       37% of carers lost some or all of their income during the pandemic.4

Carers Victoria COVID-19 Survey 2022
Carer responses:

    •        85% of carers reported feeling socially isolated during the pandemic.
    •   51 % of carers indicated their mental health was worse or a lot worse than prior to the
        pandemic.
    •   Over 80% of carers reported they spent more time providing care during the
        pandemic.
    •   More than 50% of carers were providing complex care that was usually provided by
        trained professionals.5
Despite carers being a high-risk group for catching COVID-19 due to their own health issues
or because of caring for people who are high risk, the Carers Tasmania’s 2022 report found
that only 3.93% of respondents had tested positive for COVID-19. Whilst this low rate is
pleasing, the survey found that the potential reason for this was that 59.5% of carers chose
to self-isolate as a preventative measure. While low rates of COVID-19 amongst carers
could result from self-chosen isolation, the consequences faced by self-isolating included
exacerbated loneliness and loss of practical and/or emotional support. In addition, carers
also experienced a loss of income, employment implications, difficulties in accessing
essential items, and overall, a greater risk of carer burnout.




3 Carers NSW. (2023). 2022 National Carer Survey: Full report. Available online at:
http://www.carersnsw.org.au/research/survey
4 Caring Fairly. (2020). COVID-19 Carer Survey, https://www.carersvictoria.org.au/media/2154/caring-fairly-
covid19-survey-results.pdf
5 Carers Victoria. (2022). Overview of findings from the Victorian COVID-19 carer survey.
https://www.carersvictoria.org.au/media/4234/2754-carers-vic-overview-of-victorian-covid19-carer-survey_fa.pdf

Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                            6
    4.       Response to the Inquiry
Carers Tasmania’s primary advocacy aim is for carers to be considered as a priority cohort
alongside other specific priority cohorts in planning for any disaster or pandemic. There must
be consideration and planning specifically for carers, to ensure their own safety, wellbeing,
and to support them to sustain their caring roles. To date, several cohorts have been
acknowledged as high-risk for COVID-19 due to health, age, or disability status.
Unfortunately, carers have remained unrecognised despite the crucial role they play.
There are more than 80,000 carers in Tasmania and 2.65 million carers across Australia.
Specific pieces of legislation aim to increase the recognition and support of carers both on a
national level through the Carer Recognition Act 2010 (Cth)6 and at the state level through
legislation such as the Tasmanian Carer Recognition Act 2023.7 Despite these Acts outlining
the importance of carer recognition, inclusion, and the right of carers to be supported
themselves, carers were largely forgotten throughout COVID-19.
Throughout COVID-19, Care2Serve provided food and basic care packages to carers in
Tasmania who couldn’t leave their house. After the borders opened to Tasmania in
December 2021, Carers Tasmania conducted a survey to examine the impact of COVID-19
on carers. This survey built on the findings from a previous survey that was conducted in
2020. The 2021 survey found that more than half of respondents (59.5%) chose to self­
isolate as a preventative measure. This meant that many carers went without usual support
from their service providers, and/or also struggled to access essentials. Most of the carers
who chose to self-isolate (56.1 %) were aged 65 years or older.
Several resources were circulated about what help was available to people with disability,
but information specifically for carers was lacking. During the initial stages of COVID-19,
Care2Serve completed check-in calls to carers to find out how they were coping. The
feedback received from carers suggested that these calls were very much appreciated, and
for many carers, this was the first time during the pandemic that someone asked how they
were.
Some carers reported they were unable to access certain forms of respite. In-home supports
such as domestic assistance, personal care, and respite became limited. Respite was even
more restricted in residential aged care facilities. This resulted in carers not being able to
access breaks or have time for themselves to rest and recharge. To ensure the wellbeing of
carers, and sustain their capacity to continue providing care, carers must have opportunities
to take time for themselves.
The Royal Commission into Aged Care Quality and Safety Special Report on COVID-198
highlighted significant negative impacts that resulted from the public health orders that
restricted visitors to residential aged care facilities. This meant that many carers were unable
to spend time with their loved ones. Often, when a person enters residential aged care,
either permanently or for respite, carers still find themselves assisting with meals, washing,
appointments, personal care, and both social and emotional support. The restrictions on
these activities caused great distress and confusion.




6 Commonwealth Carer Recognition Act. (2010). https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2010A00123
7 Tasmanian Carer Recognition Act (2023). https://www.legislation.tas.gov.au/view/whole/html/inforce/2023-04-
20/act-2023-001
8 Royal Commission into Aged Care Quality and Safety. (2020). Aged care and COVID-19: a special report.
https://www.royalcommission.gov.au/system/files/2021-03/aged-care-and-covid-19-a-special-report.pdf

Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                           7
As highlighted by Carers Australia, the Australian Government Coronavirus Supplement that
was introduced in March 2020 increased the amount of several social security payments,
including JobSeeker, Youth Allowance, and Parenting Payment. However, people receiving
the Carer Payment, Disability Support Pension, and Age Pension were excluded from these
extra payments, despite the significant impacts that COVID-19 had on their finances.9
Carers Australia also highlighted issues regarding other COVID-19 payments that didn’t
consider carers. As an example, the Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment was available to
eligible families who were isolating with their children if their child was 16 or under. Carers of
older children with disability missed out, despite their need to stay at home and provide
support during the pandemic.10
Carers shared many scenarios where they were not allowed in health settings when needed
by the person they were caring for. These situations were stressful and challenging and at
times led to poor outcomes for the people seeking treatment. The following case studies are
just two examples:

Case Study:

Mr. A is a single father caring for his 9-year-old Autistic son. His son has an NDIS plan, but
there is not enough funding in the plan for respite or activities. Recently, his son had to go to
the emergency department in a North-West Tasmanian hospital and his father was told he
was not allowed into the emergency room. Mr. A insisted that it was critical for him to be in
the room and he would most definitely be accompanying his son. The hospital director
eventually came to speak with Mr. A, which resulted in him being permitted to be present
with his son in the emergency room. This is a distressing situation that could easily have
been avoided.

Case Study:

A young carer who identifies as LGBTIQ+ shared their story about how their partner was
admitted to a Southern Tasmanian hospital. Their partner has multiple health issues, but
also co-occurring and complex mental ill health. The young carer was told they were not
allowed to be at the hospital with their partner, despite being their only carer and support
person. This was a very distressing situation for both the young carer and their partner who
really needed their support during this time.

    5.       Recommendations
Carers Tasmania recommends the following:

    •    Embed the routine identification, referral, and support of carers, as required under
         the Carer Recognition Act 2010, as a central component of all Government and
         Government-funded services.
    •    Recognise carers as a priority cohort who must be considered in planning for
         disasters, pandemics, and other significant unforeseen circumstances.
    •    Ensure that policy, funding grants, and guidelines allow for flexibility in the delivery of
         support for carers in the case of any disasters, pandemic, or other significantly
         disruptive situations.

9 Carers Australia. (2022). Carers Australia Response to Long COVID Inquiry.
https://www.carersaustralia.com.aU/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/FINAL-Carers-Australia-Response-to-Long-
COVID-lnquiry-Nov-2022.pdf
10 Ibid.

Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                    8
   •   Ensure that carers are recognised as a vulnerable cohort in need of additional
       government supplements in the case of any future disaster or pandemic due to the
       significant impacts on them and their need to provide increased care.
   •   Policy, particularly within healthcare settings, must be clear and inclusive of the rights
       and needs of carers.
   •   Given the low literacy rates and digital barriers experienced across communities,
       there must be strategically planned communications that are accessible and
       understandable for everyone during pandemics and natural disasters.
   •   Introduce increased protections and flexibility for employed carers, especially when
       unforeseen circumstances arise. There must also be adequate and accessible
       training pathways for carers who want to study, enter, or re-enter the workforce.




Carers Tasmania’s submission on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry           9
