                                         Covid Inquiry Submission

I am an ordinary citizen writing to make a submission regarding the Covid Inquiry.

This Inquiry in my view is nothing more than an exercise in window dressing which will never get to
the heart and soul of why the Australian Public were ever subjected to the monstrous over-reach by
Federal and State Governments. No doubt that is the intention, a toothless inquiry that glosses over
the real things that matter.

I notice that it excludes vaccine mandates, state border closures, lockdowns, quarantine and check
in rules -from its terms of reference.

What I would like to see is a full blown, comprehensive Royal Commission that will provide for
prosecution of individuals that have lied and deceived the Australian Public.

I would like a Royal Commission that would scrutinize every facet of the whole bizarre dictatorial
regime that the Australian Public was subject to that includes:

    •       What contracts the Australian Government signed with Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca etc
    •   Why rushed and experimental vaccines were hoisted upon the public and not existing
        medicines such as Hydroxychloroquine, Ivermectin, Budesonide etc, which indeed were
        actively banned both from use and from speech.
    •   Why the media were constantly telling us about the number of cases of the so-called corona
        virus without any details. Fear campaign in other words and why this was actively promoted
        by State and Federal Governments
    •   The average death of a so called covid case was 82 with about 4 co-morbidities and why this
        was not disclosed to the public
    •   Why vaccination was compulsory across almost every sector of the community. In other
        words, you lost your job if you did not comply.
    •   Why those who were not vaccinated were vilified as though they were criminals. This was
        done at all levels of Government, especially State Governments
    •       Why was it called the disease of the unvaccinated when this was not true
    •       How is it that the virus has never been isolated anywhere in the world
    •       Where did social distancing come from? No science
    •       Why masks were introduced? No science
    •   Investigation of the role of the TGA and why it allowed a gene-based vaccine without
        investigation from the body that approves GMO's
    •   Investigation of APHRA and its heavy-handed treatment of doctors who did not agree with its
        doctrine
    •   Investigation of the so-called modelling people which all the actions of government were
        based upon and the national plan for the outbreak of an influenza pandemic were thrown
        out the window
    •   Investigation into the Public Health Officials both Federal and State and their role and what
        were the factors and science that influenced them
    •   Investigate the Commonwealth and State Health Ministers and the factors and science that
        influenced them in foisting this so called pandemic response and in the finish virtually
        incarcerating the population.
    •   Investigate why prison like facilities have been built around the country as so-called
        quarantine facilities that are now empty and the factors and science around that.

1
    •         Investigation into State Border closures
    •         Investigation into lockdowns
    •         Investigation into quarantine and check in rules
    •         Investigation into the number of small businesses that lost their livelihood
    •    Investigation into why brothels, and big business such as Bunnings, Dan Murphy (bottle
         shops) could stay open



But lastly, an investigation into the excessive number of deaths and injuries that have occurred since
the vaccination roll out has occurred. We have seen recently;

     •    a 973% increase in heart failure just amongst aircrew in the US Military.



                                                           They deliberately exposed the public to
          this risk and now face murder and serious bodily harm.
     •    House of Representatives in the Philippines voted to investigate over 260,000 post vaccines
          unexplained deaths.
     •    The whistleblower in New Zealand revealing the horrendous death count from various
          batches of the vaccines in that country

                                                                                         RATIO
    BATCH ID              TOTAL VACCINATED                   DEATH COUNT
                                                                                      PERCENTAGE
         1                           711                             152                     21.38%
         8                           221                             38                      17.19%
         3                           310                             48                      15.48%
         4                           364                             37                      10.16%
         6                           1006                            101                     10.04%
         2                           1018                            98                      9.63%
         7                            38                              3                      7.89%
         72                          5882                            278                     4.73%
         62                         18173                            831                     4.57%
         71                         11019                            498                     4.52%

    •    Senator^^^^ trying to get answers from the regulatory bodies in Australia regarding the
         excessive death count and injuries since the vaccines were mandated.



    Conclusion

    Whichever way you look at this, it is the biggest scam and deception that has ever been
    perpetrated on the Australian population by people in very senior positions of government. The
    arrogance of the bureaucracies that think they have all of the answers and impose totalitarian
    type controls on the population with little basis in science and if it is questioned you are labelled
    as "anti vacs" or a purveyor of misinformation or the good old chestnut of "conspiracy theorist".




2
    I know that my submission will have no impact whatever in regards to changing the terms of
    reference of this so-called inquiry but at least if there are a good number of submissions it might
    convey to the government the depth of feelings of how we felt we were treated.

    There needs to be a full blown, no holds barred, comprehensive, uncut version of a royal
    commission with powers to prosecute all those who knowingly misled the Australian people.




3
