From:
Sent:                            Friday, 15 December 2023 10:21 AM
To:
Subject:                        Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Follow Up Flag:                  Flag for follow up
Flag Status:                     Flagged



Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
To the Members of the Independent Panel,

I am writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects of Australia's response to the CO VID-19
pandemic. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry's goal to improve pandemic preparedness, there
are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny.
I write to you as a person who resides in this countryand employee, and was
deeply affected                                                  Every person in this country and then the
world were clearly affected.                     could not complete his HSC due to the fact he could not
attend school for year 11 or


Families were broken up, divided, and marriages ended. People were discriminated against, panic over food,
elderly left alone to die without family members. The premier of the day Ms Berejiklian, declared war in her
on own state and its people.
Totally unacceptable disrespectful behaviour, especially from an elected government official who then
became disgraced by ICAC. The behaviour by Brad Hazzard of Q codes, name calling the public, labelling
of individuals and choices in media, total disgrace. I will never forget.

Clearly the lockstep of the way things unfolded globally should cause scrutiny at every level. It is prudent
that the government provisionally registered medical products rely on adverse event reporting to build the
safety profile of the drug, and then censoring and bullying people from criticising that drug then you will
break that system, killing people. People have choices about what they put in their bodies.

The government gave $8 billion to Pharmaceutical companies for poorly tested gene-vaccines, sight unseen,
incredulously the chair of CEPI (that favours mRNA and 100-day vaccines for the Gates foundation^^^H
       review the procurement deal it is a conflict of interest.

Concerns Over Specific Pandemic Measures
Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had significant impacts on
individual freedoms and social dynamics. These measures, often invasive, warrant a detailed review to
assess their necessity, effectiveness, and proportionality.
Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, and psychological impacts of lockdowns and curfews have
been profound. An evaluation of these measures is essential to understand their long-term effects on
Australian society and whether they were the most appropriate response.
Communication Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use of fear in public health
messaging. It's important to analyse whether such communication strategies were effective or whether they
contributed to unnecessary panic and distress among the public.

Concerns Over the Composition and Scope of the Inquiry


                                                       i
Panel Composition: The appointment of Inquiry panel members who have previously expressed support for
certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity and impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel
members who have expressed support for such measures should recuse themselves.
Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One of the most significant omissions in
the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion of actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments. These
decisions, including state-imposed lockdowns and border controls, were pivotal to the nation's pandemic
response and should be included in the Inquiry.

The Need for a Comprehensive Review
While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above-mentioned areas are
not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all aspects of the government's response,
including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope.

Conclusion This submission represents a collective call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation into
Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast aside with
fearmongering as it was by Australian governments during the pandemic. We urge the Inquiry to consider
these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the safeguarding of Australian values and liberties.

I cannot stress enough personally how fearful this entire pandemic has changed the lives, businesses,
economies, in so many ways. The fear mongering of the press, the continual bombardment of media daily
interviews by Premiers, chief medical officers and politicians that labelled cultures, people, and diversities
should never have been allowed to happen and the residual scars that remain may never heal. Personally I
was stood down from work and financially disadvantaged and was scrutinised for having a personal opinion
about many issues such as the evidence of so many issues at today we are just now told to live with COVID.
I cannot believe how the world shut down for over two years, now we are just to be told to “live with
COVID” by the same politicians.

I thank you for reading my submission.




                                                      2
