             Australian Academy
             of Health and
             Medical Sciences

The Australian Academy of Health and Medical Sciences submission
to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
December 2023
The Australian Academy of Health and Medical Sciences (AAHMS) is pleased to contribute to the
Australian Government ’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry. AAHMS is Australia’s Learned Academy for
health and medicine - the impartial, authoritative, cross-sector voice. We are an independent,
interdisciplinary body of Fellows - elected by peers for outstanding achievements and exceptional
contributions to health and medical science in Australia. Collectively, we advance research and
innovation to improve everyone’s health and engage with community, industry and governments.

This submission responds to the Inquiry terms of reference 2,3 and 8 as they relate to the health and
medical research landscape and the translation of research into evidence-based policy and practice.
We also focus on the policy gaps and opportunities to improve future preparedness. At the same
time, AAHMS acknowledges Australia’s pandemic successes. Overall, we had a lower excess
mortality rate and less excess health sector spending than many other countries, and while there are
certainly areas for improvement, Australia faired relatively well by international standards.1

Research-informed policy and practice
Research and innovation were vital in guiding Australia’s response to the pandemic. Australia must
continue to develop a strong research and innovation ecosystem that can deliver the best, most
relevant evidence to inform decision-making in emergencies. Such an ecosystem should:

•   Be responsive - pandemic preparedness and response relies on the ability to quickly initiate and
    scale up research. Conventional grant agencies, for example, the Medical Research Future Fund
    (MRFF) and National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) were often unable to
    provide timely funding for projects in the context of an emergency. Funding delays were
    exacerbated by operational barriers - governance and ethics approval processes could be further
    streamlined, and research and digital infrastructure standardised, harmonised and continually
    updated. This should occur together with coordination of data-management, linkage and sharing
    between federal, state and territory jurisdictions. These operational barriers have been widely
    described in our previous work (e.g. Australia’s data-enabled research future, Long COVID
    Parliamentary Inquiry expert roundtable) and will not be discussed in further detail here
    (although would be pleased to do so at the Committee’s request), except to note that the
    Australian Centre for Disease Control (CDC) should play a key role in developing more cost
    effective and sustainable disease surveillance systems and advancing linkage of key state and
    national datasets.2,3
•   Be timely, effective and impactful - pandemic preparedness and response require research
    readiness and support for and across multiple disciplines and sectors including clinical trials, public
    health, social sciences, implementation, evaluation and policy research. During the pandemic,
    certain types of research were better supported than others. For instance, research into non­
    pharmaceutical public health interventions (NPIs), such as mask wearing, ventilation and
    infection control in healthcare and community settings was poorly funded despite their potential
    benefits when implemented appropriately, and high cost when not. Research into the
    development of effective treatments, such as antivirals, could also have been stronger and better
    coordinated. Social sciences research, First Nations-led research, and research into post-COVID
    conditions, One Health, and the use of digital tools and artificial intelligence could all have been
    better supported.


                                                                                                          1
•    Be strategic - pandemic research must be strategic and the best way to achieve this is by ensuring an
     ongoing strategic approach across Australia’s health and medical research and innovation. Austra I ia
     should develop an overarching national strategy to guide research priorities, which facilitates
     Commonwealth and cross-jurisdictional cooperation and collaboration. Provision of infrastructure
     that includes support for research-ready adaptive clinical trials platforms and builds current and
     future research workforce capacity through support of early and mid-career researchers is vital.' 4
     Measures introduced to manage pandemics should be evidence-informed. Networks and
     mechanisms for research translation e.g. the National COVID-19 Health and Research Advisory
     Committee and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Advisory Group on COVI D-19, are often
     reactive, and not representative of all stakeholders (e.g. researchers, consumers, public health
     authorities, jurisdictions, funders and industry).
•    Build on planned/existing structures - (1) To maximise its potential, the future CDC should
     incorporate mechanisms for rapid assessment of research and provision of evidence-driven
     recommendations to policy makers and healthcare administrators who are time-poor. Surveillance
     activities should quickly characterise emerging threats, coordinate data collection and inform
     research funding. (2) The Rapid Research Information Forum, chaired by Australia’s Chief
     Scientist, was an expert group that included the Australian Learned Academies. This group
     analysed the latest evidence on emerging, pressing questions regarding COVID-19 and provided
     scientific advice to Government.5 To enhance its effectiveness, it should be streamlined and
     coordinated better to ensure appropriate consultation and limit duplicated efforts. (3) AAHMS’
     2022 report, ‘Embedding research and innovation as core functions of the health system: A vision for the
     future of health in Australia’ called for the Australian and jurisdictional Governments to establish an
     alliance for transforming healthcare through research, which would bring key partners together
     to develop and implement strategies for including research and innovation as core functions of the
     health system.6 Creating such a group would help ensure that research reaches patients efficiently.

Improving outcomes for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities
Australia must develop mechanisms to ensure First Nations voices are included at the highest levels
of pandemic planning and to amplify the expertise of First Nations-led groups in delivering
culturally safe, community-based care.

The Australian Government could:
• Play an important role in developing and embedding cultural governance within a pandemic
   response framework.7
• Assist in the adoption of a strengths-based approach through provision of structured support
   and inclusion of proven strategies developed by First Nations-led health groups.
• Improve sustainable leadership opportunities by embedding Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
   leadership within health and medical sciences, thereby ensuring effective development and
   translation of First Nations-led research.
♦ Build and nurture relevant First Nations expertise within the CDC - The CDC should embed
   Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voices within its leadership, governance and operations.
• Provide long-term investment to facilitate trusted and culturally safe care through consistent
   and sustained funding for First nations healthcare workers and rural and regional pharmacies.
• Enable Indigenous data sovereignty and hence safe and secure use of data for policymaking and
   the development of public health measures to improve outcomes for these communities.



' REMAP-CAP, i.e. a Randomised, Embedded, Multi-factorial, Adaptive Platform Trial for Community-Acquired Pneumonia, used a novel and
innovative adaptive trial design to simultaneously and efficiently evaluate a number of COVID-19 treatment options. Source: F  '-CA
website, accessed 7 December 2023. REMAP-CAP is explored as a case study in the 2023 AAHMS Vision Report (P.70).



                                                                                                                                        2
Communication, misinformation and disinformation
Improved communication of science and areas of uncertainty, which is targeted to different
stakeholders - scientists, practitioners, policy makers, government and most importantly, priority
populations - is key, and must consider differences in culture, linguistics and health literacy.
Importantly, strategies must also engender trust in governments and mitigate the spread of
misinformation and disinformation. This is a long-term endeavour that goes beyond the pandemic
setting and requires significant strategic investment. Despite positive examples of intra-pandemic
communication and information sharing (e.g. the Department of Health and Aged Care’s regular
webinars with clinicians and meetings to inform national media, and the Aboriginal Community
Controlled Health Organisations’ capacity to inform First Nations peoples), public trust was
compromised.

Australia needs:
• Research to better understand public communication and behaviour, which can enable maximal
    compliance with relevant advice - it must involve the public to ensure their perspectives inform
    policy development.
• Targeted engagement with, and tailored communication strategies for, culturally and
    linguistically diverse communities (CALD) and those with lower levels of health literacy - such
    individuals had poorer understanding about COVID-19 symptoms, prevention and public health
    measures, and were more likely to accept and endorse misinformation.8
• To combat mis- and disinformation, which occurred at every level of the response and
    threatened compliance with, and efficacy of, the emergency measures being enacted. Strategies
    must be developed in anticipation of another global/national infectious diseases emergency and
    for ongoing benefit.

Collaboration and coordination
Collaboration is essential for coordinated and cohesive action towards pandemic preparedness and
response. Stakeholders at every level must work together closely for the best outcomes.
Opportunities for improved collaboration include:
• Federal and jurisdictional governments - barriers resulting from Australia’s federated system,
    prevented a more cohesive response to the pandemic. Some are highlighted above. We encourage
    this Inquiry to consider how these governments can better work together.
• Research and innovation - in a pandemic, top-down large collaborative research is needed.
    Australia prioritised open calls to fund research during COVID-19, creating sometimes
    unproductive competition, delays in initiating research and achieving timely impact and multiple
    small clinical trials that were underpowered. In addition, inter-and multi-disciplinary research
    was not well supported despite being key to pandemic preparedness and response.
• The health-academia-industry interface - addressing patient needs and improving healthcare
    through cutting-edge research is best achieved by integrated research teams that incorporate
    multidisciplinary insights and expertise. A robust health-academia-industry interface that
    facilitates the work of integrated teams is needed. AAHMS’ 2022 report on embedding research
    and innovation in health sets out ways to advance this interface for better outcomes in health.6
• Stakeholder engagement - planning and preparedness conversations and decision-making
    should include all relevant stakeholders from the outset. This includes aged care representatives,
    healthcare professionals, consumers, healthcare administrators, Aboriginal and Torres Strait
    Islander communities and experts, and culturally and linguistically diverse communities.
• International collaboration - building domestic capacity and strengthening long-term
    international relationships will ensure that Australia can lead in the global response to future
    pandemics.


                                                                                                       3
We are grateful for the contributions of our Fellows, Associate Members and other networks in
developing this submission. For questions about our response, or to arrange a consultation with the
Academy, please contact Lanika Mylvaganam, Head of Policy (policy(S)aahms.org) at the Australian
Academy of Health and Medical Sciences.

www.aahms.org




References
1 Thorne L. (2023). How did Australia’s COVIDstrategy compare to other countries? New data paints a striking
picture, https://www.abc.net.au/news/2023-ll-29/australia-covid-data-on-masks-tests-deaths-
spenoing/103160238. Accessed 7 December 2023.
2 Australian Academy of Health and Medical Sciences (2022). Australia’s Data-Enabled Research Future: Health
and Medical Sciences. AAF   website, accessed 7 December 2023.
3 Australian Academy of Health and Medical Sciences (2023). Experts deliver evidence in long COVID
parliamentary hearing, https://aahms.org/news/long-covid-parliamentarv-roundtable-february/
4 Australian Academy of Science (2020). Early- and -mid career researchers fear their careers are at risk due to
pandemic, https://www.science.org.au/news-and-events/news-and-media-releases/early-and-mid-career-
 isearch      Ba   lej   eers-.       . Accessed 7 December 2023.
5 Australian Academy of Health and Medical Science (2021). COVID-19 Rapid Research Information Forum.
https://aahms.org/policv/covid-19-rapid-research-information-forum/
6 Australian Academyof Health and Medical Sciences (2022). Research and Innovation as Core Functions in
Transforming the HealthSystem: A Vision for the Future of Health in Australia, http 7aahms.org/on.
Accessed 7 December 2023.
7 Crooks K, Law C, Taylor K, et al. Embedding Aboriginal cultural governance, capacity, perspectives and
leadership into a local Public Health Unit Incident Command System during COVI D-19 in New South Wales,
Australia. BMJ Glob Health 2O23;8:eO127O9. doi:10.1136/ bmjgh-2023-012709.
8 McCaffery K, Dodd R, Cvejic E et al. (2020) Health literacy and disparities in COVID-19-related knowledge,
attitudes, beliefs and behaviours in Australia, Public Health Research & Practice, 2020;30(4):e3034201 2.
https://doi.org/10.17061/phrp30342012




                                                                                                               4
