I hold a Bachelor of Health Science (Naturopathy) with 7 years clinical experience treating
approximately two hundred patients. I am a general practice naturopath treating a wide range of
health dysfunction including issues related to the following systems:

    •       immune
    •       nervous
    •       integumentary
    •       cardiovascular
    •       respiratory
    •       digestive
    •       musculoskeletal
    •       endocrine
    •       urinary
    •       reproductive

I am registered with the Australian Traditional Medicine Society and am required to undertake
continuing professional education to maintain membership.

This submission seeks to address the key health response measures adopted by the Australian
Government, including the decision to utilise taxpayer money to commit Australians to a Covid-19
vaccination program and then behave in a manner that bolstered their decision, despite growing
evidence to the contrary.

The Australian Government, either directly or indirectly through delegation to the individual states
and territories, did not provide the Australian public with the opportunity or capacity to provide
informed consent to participate in their Covid-19 vaccination program. The Australian Government
achieved the above through the following behaviours.



Refusal to consider dissenting scientific opinion and adhere to scientific "best practice"

    •   Dismissal of alternative Covid-19 treatments eg. the Nobel Prize winning Ivermectin and
        Hydroxychloroquine.
    •   Failure to recognise each Australian as an individual with varying health status. This included
        no consideration of medication contraindications or existing health conditions.
    •   Failure of the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) to investigate allegations at the time
        (since proven correct), that trial data integrity was questionable eg. unblinding of
        participants, poor laboratory management, falsifying data, lack of follow-up of patients who
        experienced adverse events and more. Refer attachment labelled Covid-19: Researcher
        blows the whistle on data integrity issues in Pfizer's vaccine trial.

Using coercion to remove an individual's capacity to provide informed consent

    •   The Australian Health Practitioners Regulation Agency (AHPRA) used coercion and overt
        threat of deregistration to gag doctors, preventing them from supporting informed consent
        by their patients. Refer attachments labelled Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human
        Rights extract (Article 6) and Valid Consent taken from the Australian Immunisation
        Handbook.
    •   The Australian Government sanctioned state and territory governments, who further passed
        down a coercive and threatening directive to their employees to take the Covid-19
        vaccinations and boosters or face dismissal, and in many cases, a misconduct allegation. The
        coercion and threat of job loss in effect nullified the criteria for valid consent.
    •   The Australian Government through the Australian Communications and Media Authority
        (ACM A) provided commercial broadcasters with a 100% rebate of their Commercial
        Broadcasting Tax obligations for a period of 12 months from 14 February 2020 to 13 February
        2021 to "improve the sustainability of Australia's free-to-air broadcasting sector". Refer
        attachment labelled Commercial Broadcasting Tax Rebate. Was this rebate an incentive for
        broadcasters to promote the narrative that would further drive fear and division in the
        community? Did the constant fear exposure through televisions and social media reinforce
        the narrative and cloud the population's desire for informed consent?



Adverse events experiences

As a naturopathic health practitioner, I have been consulted by a number of patients who have
experienced adverse effects from the Covid-19 vaccinations. In some cases, these individuals have
become unwell when previously they have been in good health. By way of de-identified examples, I
provide the following:



•   18 year old female student nurse. Following 3 x Pfizer vaccines, experienced blurred vision,
    tachycardia (HR 140-180bpm), clammy hands and feet - transported to hospital. Discharged 2
    hours later.
•   36 year old female. Following first Covid-19 vaccine, developed severe pain in injection arm,
    across chest and back of shoulder and when inhaling. Attended hospital with suspected
    pulmonary embolism however CT confirmed inflammation of lung lining.
•   76 year old male. Taking no medications and a clean bill of health, following first AstraZeneca
    Covid-19 vaccine, unable to stand up straight and over the next week, experienced diminished
    muscle strength in arms and legs. Two months later, severe dyspnoea - gasping for breath and
    no power on breath out. Sleeps in a chair as he cannot breathe when laying down.
•   43 year old female. Following 3 x Covid-19 vaccines, experienced presyncope, heart palpitations
    (HR 138bpm) and pressing chest pain. Ambulance called and transported to hospital. Referred
    to cardiologist.



In conclusion, the damage incurred by the Covid-19 events has been severe and far reaching. It has
left the country with enormous generational debt, vaccine injured individuals and an increase in all
cause mortality which has not been addressed. This requires a full investigation along the lines of a
Royal Commission so that accountability can be brought and to ensure that this country never has to
endure such a situation again.
