                                   SUBMISSION TO ENQUIRY INTO COVID-19
     RESPONSE




1.   It is disturbing and unreasonable that after multiple requests over 2 years, when
     government finally decided to accept submissions towards an enquiry into the Covid-
     19 response, the public has been given only one week to respond, with very little
     publicity of the opportunity. Given the secrecy and censorship endured since 2020,
     this comes as no surprise and is an indication of how little worth government places
     in the opinions of the people.
2.   How was this pandemic declared? It would appear it was declared after video
     footage and cases were reported (since debunked) out of China, yet no such
     pandemic ever arrived on our shores. In fact, according to World Statistics, the flu
     disappeared in 2020, apparently replaced by ‘Covid-19’. In 2020 flu seasons, an
     average of 1700 people died, mostly seniors and/or with pre-existing conditions.
     3000 deaths was considered a bad flu season, yet we had 550 deaths in 2020.
     Please investigate the many deaths claimed to be from Covid that were in fact from
     other causes. How many people were paid to have their loved ones declared a Covid
     death instead of the true cause? Please do interview embalmers and funeral
     directors who can testify that deaths increased since the rollout. They can testify to
     the changed nature of the blood and the difficulties they now have preparing corpses
     for burial.
3.   Please do not patronize us with false claims of how effective social distancing,
     sanitizing and masks were. It was a show to scare the people and it worked. There
     was no pandemic. The deaths only started in earnest after the alleged cure was
     rolled out.
4.   I’ll never forget how we were separated from loved ones and denied time with dying
     friends and families due to ridiculous dictatorial measures. I will not forget how we
     were treated as criminals for making private choices for my individual health
     requirements. I will not forget the fear mongering for a problem that did not exist, nor
     the division that was created among the people. What happened to all the
     businesses that closed down and the people who lost their jobs because they
     refused to be forced to do something against their will?
5.   Reports from UK Parliament confirm that over 90% of all Covid deaths have been
     triple vaccinated. Why does the government still push a poison onto its people when
     insurance actuary figures confirm there are 15% excess deaths since the campaign
     rollout, in the previously healthiest age range of the working population 18-55 years.
6.   This should not be an inquiry into responding to the next planned pandemic which
     will be announced in plenty of time for investors to make maximum profits. This
     should be a Royal Commission into the deaths, disabilities and destruction of the
     economy and morale in the wake of the disasters of the last 4 years with no regard to
     the men and women of this country.
7.   There needs to be full disclosure of all conflicts of interest of any man or woman in a
     position of influence and/or authority, exposing any financial or other gain from
     interests in any equipment such as tests, PPE, injections or associated substance or
     pharmaceutical shares which they may profit from such as Annastacia Palaszczuk’s
     father being a board member of a DNA lab with links to CCP, or others with links to
     pharmaceutical companies or other corporations in a position to profit.
8.   Please provide full disclosure of the comparison of costs between pre-covid and
     covid related medical items on the Medicare list. For example, how much does a
     doctor/nurse/chemist/clinic/etc get paid per Covid-19 injection as compared to the
     previous flu shots. I have included a blank form to be completed. How much did a
     doctor/nurse/expert get paid per death/illness/case/etc previous to Covid as
    compared to how much they were paid to diagnose and declare sickness, illness,
    deaths or any other condition as a Covid death/disease/disability.
9. This enquiry will no doubt be another whitewash because the government are under
    orders from unelected, foreign influencers to continue this campaign to depopulate.
10. Malfeasance - “The wrongful or unjust doing of some act which the doer has no right
    to perform, or which he has stipulated by contract not to do.”
11. Misfeasance - “A misdeed or trespass. The doing what a party ought to do
    improperly. 1 Tidd, Pr 4. The improper performance of some act which a man may
    lawfully do. 3 Steph. Comm.460. Not doing a lawful act in a proper manner, omitting
    to do it as it should be done.” Black’s Law Dictionary 1st Edition 1891.
    When does the enquiry begin to investigate the criminal behaviour, misfeasance and
    malfeasance of local councillors, businesses, banks, hospitals, health clinics, doctors
    and anyone involved in the distribution of a proven bio-weapon without proper trials.
    According to the hearing submission to the CDC in 2021, trials on large mammals
    and simians were approved SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH APPROVAL TO BEGIN
    TRIALS ON MEN AND WOMEN. NO TRIALS WERE CONDUCTED ON PREGNANT
    WOMEfWR CHILDREN BEFORE THEIR DISPERSAL ONLY RODENTS WHICH
                   ! When do the trials begin on those who approved the slaughter of our
    population, while the protected members of Parliament were EXEMPT from
    participating in, according to Greg Hunt, ‘The world’s largest clinical trial’ ? Shame on
    any member of parliament who had an opportunity to soeak out against this untested,
    experimental treatment and failed to do so. You are a
12. When will the people be held to account who willingly ancHSrcefully contravened and
    criminally disregarded the standards set by the Nuremberg Trials and the Australian
    Vaccination Handbook that stipulate no one can be coerced, forced, manipulated,
    incentivized, bullied or blackmailed against their will, without their express consent to
    do so and only with full disclosure of all ingredients and possible side effects and
    risks?
13. When will Australia exit the WHO? Why is this country and our leaders taking
    directions from foreign, unelected corporations without the consent of the men and
    women of this country?




15. Please investigate why Prime Minister Scott Morrison committed to buy the
    equivalent of 18 doses for every Australian of an untested, untrialled, Covid-19
    experimental bioweapon without any independent testing? Since when do we need
    more than one dose of a flu shot, let alone 3/5/8/10/15/18? What is the purpose?
16. We do not consent to the constant censorship of truth that has been labelled as
    conspiracy theory, only to be proven correct after the fact. Please research data from
    insurance actuaries who will confirm there are 15% excess deaths in the formerly
    healthiest section of the working population, 18-55 year olds, and it has never been
    more dangerous to be an athlete. Since when do we need defibrillators in schools!
17. I AM DISGUSTED BY THE LEADERS OF THIS COUNTRY AND THEIR NETWORK
    OF THUGS IN BLUE AND MEDIA HARLOTS WHO HAVE PERPETRATED CRIMES
   AGAINST THE MEN AND WOMEN OF THIS COUNTRY. THEIR DAY IN COURT
    CANNOT ARRIVE SOON ENOUGH.
