Australian Government
Department of Finance




                                        Department of Finance
             Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry


                        Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet
                                                December 2023
                                                                        Department of Finance
                            Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                               December 2023



Contents
Introduction                                                                                3

Overview                                                                                    3

Budget and financial management                                                             4

Governance, procurement and indemnity                                                       5

Commercial advice                                                                           5

Quarantine centres                                                                          6

Whole-of-government services                                                                6

Observations from the response                                                              8




                                                                                             2
                                                                           Department of Finance
                               Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                  December 2023


Introduction
The Department of Finance (Finance) was invited by the Department of Prime
Minister and Cabinet to make a submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel.

This submission provides an overview of Finance’s role in responding to COVID-19
pandemic (the pandemic) and outlines the specific measures Finance took to respond to the
pandemic and contribute to the overall Australian Government response. The submission
closes with observations on opportunities to enhance future responses to emergency events,
noting the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and Australia’s positive response.


Overview
As a central agency, Finance’s contribution to the overarching Australian Government
response to the pandemic was twofold. Firstly, Finance supported Government
decision-making, governance, delivery and assurance through Finance’s key role in
providing advice on expenditure, cash management and consolidated financial reporting and
facilitating timely and responsive expenditure decision-making.

Finance also contributed to the broader response through providing advice and amendments
to public resource legislation, frameworks and guidance; delivery of whole-of-government
services and capital projects; and providing commercial advice and analysis as required for
key elements of the response.

From the emerging overseas public health situation in late 2019, preparations and response
commenced and escalated throughout 2020, such that by the second half of 2020 Finance
was supporting the Australian Government response and effort on multiple fronts.

The below provides a summary of Finance’s contribution to the pandemic response. It
identifies the primary areas of responsibility and intervention, including relevant legislative
and regulatory functions and effort.




                                                                                                  3
                                                                          Department of Finance
                              Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                 December 2023


Budget and financial management
As the pandemic emergency response escalated through 2020, Finance played a critical role
in informing Government decision-making and supporting multiple economic updates that
delivered a series of health and economic support measures. Finance provided time-critical
policy and costing advice to entities to support policy and program responses developed in
response to the pandemic. This contribution included:

   •   providing policy advice to Government and relevant agencies on options for the
       response;
   •   agreeing costs and variation to estimates for relevant programs within tight
       timeframes; and
   •   providing advice and access to appropriations and the Advance to the Finance
       Minister.

A brief snapshot of the decisions and support Finance provided advice on includes:

   •   support for individuals: COVID Disaster Payment, and the Pandemic Leave Disaster
       Payment (Home Affairs); JobSeeker Supplement (Social Services).
   •   support for the health system: COVID-19 Vaccine Program, effective use of the
       National Medicines Stockpile, COVID-19 National Partnership Agreement with states
       and territories (Health).
   •   support for business: JobKeeper (Treasury), Business Support Payments (Treasury -
       state based), Tourism Support Payments (Foreign Affairs and Trade).
   •       supporting the flow of credit: SME Guarantee Schemes (Treasury).
   •   support for regional COVID response: COVID Immunisation in the Pacific and
       Southeast Asia (Foreign Affairs and Trade).
   •       stimulus: Defence Economic Stimulus (Defence), HomeBuilder (Treasury).
   •       other: Insolvency Reform (Treasury), Operation COVID ASSIST (Defence).

Further detail on specific policies and programs would be best sought from the relevant
portfolio entities.

During the pandemic, Finance provided enhanced reporting to Government on COVID-19
expenditure and payments, providing a comprehensive picture of pandemic expenditure and
payment data from across the Australian Government general government sector.

Finance supported Government to create extraordinary Advance to the Finance Minister
provisions. At its peak this allowed for $50 billion to be made available through the Advance
to the Finance Minister and was necessary to ensure the Australian Government could
respond to urgent and unforeseen expenditure requirements, particularly during periods
when there were constraints on parliamentary decision-making. Additionally, Finance led the
design of funding arrangements which were facilitated by multiple additional appropriation
acts being considered and passed by the Parliament during this time.

Finance further provided input and advice on special appropriations and related spending
powers, including:

   •   Assistance for Severely Affected Regions (Special Appropriation) (Coronavirus
       Economic Response Package) Act 2020.
   •   Australian Business Growth Fund (Coronavirus Economic Response Package) Act
       2020.



                                                                                                4
                                                                           Department of Finance
                               Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                  December 2023

   •       COVID-19 Disaster Payment (Funding Arrangements) Act 2021.
   •       National Health Amendment (COVID-19) Act 2021.


Governance, procurement and indemnity
The Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (PGPA Act) provides the
framework for governance and accountability for public resources. Through the PGPA Act,
Rules and delegated powers and requirements on accountable authorities, Finance advised
entities on the necessary processes and arrangements to support the pandemic response.

For example, Finance facilitated legislative authority for new programs (where primary
legislation was not required) through amendments to Schedule 1AB to the Financial
Framework (Supplementary Powers) Regulations 1997 (FFSP Regulations) to support a
broad range of spending activities across the Commonwealth. This included spending
measures within the Infrastructure, Education, Social Services, Prime Minister and Cabinet,
Home Affairs and Health portfolios.

Finance took initiative early in the pandemic response to analyse potential Commonwealth
liability implications and insurance arrangements required to mitigate liability risk. Finance
advised the Department of Health in the consideration of options and establishment of a
redress scheme, and supported advice to establish indemnities for COVID-19 vaccine
arrangements under Section 60 of the PGPA Act.

Procurement activities were already underway across multiple levels of government in
response to the pandemic, to ensure public access to essential stock including vaccines,
personal protective equipment, and other necessary supports.

   •   Finance worked closely with the Department of Health on vaccine procurement
       strategies and their implementation, which included seconding Finance employees to
       Health to assist with the effort.
   •   A procurement policy note was published on the Finance webpage to assist entities
       undertaking procurements during the pandemic relating to approaching the market,
       procurement methods, supplier payment times, and to cover contractual matters with
       affected suppliers in the market.

Finance provided support to entities to streamline the grants approval process during this
time, providing advice on COVID-19 impacts and guidance to entities on variations to grant
opportunity guidelines and grant agreements to enable the primary provision of Government
support.


Commercial advice
Finance provided support to the then Department of Industry, Science, Energy and
Resources and the Department of Health with commercial negotiations to establish an
onshore mRNA vaccine manufacturing capability.

Informed by an approach to market for proposals to establish an onshore end-to-end
solution, commercial negotiations delivered a 10-year strategic partnership with Moderna Inc.
and the Victorian Government.




                                                                                                 5
                                                                           Department of Finance
                               Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                  December 2023

Moderna is currently building a facility in Victoria that will be able to produce up to 100 million
respiratory mRNA doses each year, if required in a future pandemic.

The positive engagement and agreements with Moderna and the Victorian Government will
help grow Australia’s mRNA ecosystem through supply chain opportunities and further
investment in research and development capabilities.


Quarantine centres
Following the National Cabinet decision in March 2020 that required all overseas travellers to
quarantine at dedicated locations, Finance engaged with the Victorian Government (initially)
to construct a purpose-built quarantine facility.

Work commenced on the Victorian facility in May 2021. However, following requests from the
Premiers in Western Australia and Queensland, Centres in Perth and Brisbane were also
included in the quarantine infrastructure delivery program. Under these arrangements,
Finance was tasked with the capital works delivery with the States responsible for the
delivery of the health and quarantine services elements for the Centres. Authority was
received on 27 October 2021 and total funding of $1.37 billion was appropriated for the three
centres.

The project delivery team leveraged experience and capabilities from across Finance, the
Australian and State Governments, and the private sector. This included secondment
arrangements from the Australian Government Departments of Defence, Health, and
Home Affairs as well as from the Victorian Government. These secondees assisted in
providing strategic specialist advice on practical and policy matters. The bespoke design and
delivery method focused on mitigating risk of non-compliance with the requirements of a
quarantine facility.

To support the project delivery team, formal governance arrangements were established to
drive the project, supported by a robust decision-making framework. Direct engagement from
Finance at senior levels ensured focus on design, construction quality and scheduling,
budget compliance and key risk mitigation.

The three centres were completed on time and to budget. Finance maintains the centres at a
basic state of readiness to provide an enduring resilience capability that has already been
used for pandemic response (Victoria, 2022), flood and adverse weather response (Victoria,
2022-23) and to respond to recent bushfires (Western Australia, 2023).


Whole-of-government services
Finance has a number of whole-of-government policy and service responsibilities. In many of
these areas the impacts of the pandemic required the department to adapt approaches,
introduce new ways of operating and support other entities in delivering outcomes.

With responsibility for whole of government property services, and control of a sizable public
property portfolio, Finance developed and implemented the COVID-19 Rent Relief Policy for
small and medium enterprise subtenants and not-for-profit entities in Commonwealth owned
and leased premises. Announced in May 2020, this supported businesses and other entities




                                                                                                  6
                                                                         Department of Finance
                             Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                December 2023

subleasing space from the Commonwealth to mitigate the economic impacts and resultant
loss of revenue from reduced business during lockdowns and remain viable.

   •   The policy delivered relief totalling an estimated $21.1 million to 448 occupants by
       April 2022 when the policy transitioned to a discretionary approach. The policy was
       further supported by guidance and advice provided to non-corporate and corporate
       Commonwealth entities who owned and leased building with tenants, subtenants and
       licensees where the policy was applied.
On behalf of Government, the Finance Owned Estate maintains around 16 properties that
accommodate a range of Commonwealth services, from portfolios of state to Commonwealth
law courts to post-entry quarantine. In response to the pandemic, Finance confirmed that
relevant heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) assets were consistent with the
relevant Australian standards now in place and undertook necessary upgrades where
appropriate. Finance also engaged additional systems monitoring and verification to support
entities in their operations.

As the department responsible for electoral policy, Finance was central to the development
of legislation to ensure COVID-19 affected individuals were able to cast a vote in the
2022 Federal Election, safely and in accordance with public health orders, through secure
telephone voting. These legislative amendments, which were put in place only for the
2022 Federal Election due to unique circumstances, supported voter enfranchisement and
the Australian Electoral Commission’s successful delivery of the election.

The GovCMS program provides content management and website hosting services for
government. This program is used by several front-line entities that delivered the
Government’s pandemic response. In response to the emergency, Finance supported
Australians having access to key and up-to-date information relating to the pandemic through
implementing additional IT network capacity, monitoring and alerting to ensure stability and
resilience of high-traffic government websites (including the Department of Health, Services
Australia, Smart Traveller and Safe Work Australia) during a period of unprecedented
demand. Finance also supported entities by forming 'surge teams' to assist entities publish
information relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in anticipation of major
government announcements.

As manager of a range of mandatory whole-of-government communications supplier
arrangements (such as contract administration of the master media planning and placement
agency), Finance also worked with Department of Health and other agencies to support
pandemic information advertising in the media and broader communications engagement.

As part of its support for ministerial and parliamentary services, Finance provides the
COMCAR fleet of car-with-driver transport services. In response to a surge of COVID cases
in Victoria, the COMCAR drivers generously made themselves available to support Victoria
Ambulance in transporting affected patients and their families and loved ones where they
needed to go.




                                                                                              7
                                                                          Department of Finance
                              Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                 December 2023


Observations from the response
The above broadly outlines the scope of activities and assistance Finance contributed to the
Government’s pandemic response but is not comprehensive.

As with the broader Australian Public Service, Finance was required to quickly re-prioritise its
activities and re-deploy resources to critical needs to effectively respond, as the pandemic
situation nationally continued to evolve. There was large-scale response through the Budget
and building of large quarantine facilities.

There was also the ongoing consistent advice, collaboration and partnership that all entities
and stakeholders needed to support their operations and overall public health and wellbeing.
All of this still occurred while departmental officials were largely working from home for much
of the pandemic response.

Governance arrangements were established early in the pandemic emergency, nationally
through the National Cabinet arrangements, and across the Australian Government through
the Cabinet, Secretaries Board and specific committees established in response to the
pandemic. Proactive entity engagement through the Budget process was pivotal in
supporting effective decision-making based on up-to-date financial information and reporting
and facilitated through deliberate flexibility in the budget process and timing discussed
earlier.

The coordination role across governments, supported by established processes and
communication channels became even more critical to ensure the response could meet the
critical needs, expectations and timeframes required to affect the response.

   •   The scale and scope of the pandemic, and required response, was difficult to foresee,
       and Finance notes Australia’s response compares very favourably to other countries
       on the basis of health and economic outcomes.
   •   Finance further notes that at different times during the pandemic, engagement
       experience both between Commonwealth agencies, and the Commonwealth and
       jurisdictions and other stakeholders, showed the benefits of better-established
       processes, collaboration and coordination, and lines of responsibility, including having
       the systems and frameworks in place early to assist in decision-making and
       response. Such systems and frameworks need to be able to adapt flexibly to
       otherwise completely unforeseen circumstances.
   •   Some lessons learned from the pandemic response are already being implemented
       to assist in future consideration of and response to like events. Finance supports
       further assessments of ‘lessons learned’, informed by insights from activities such as
       this Inquiry.

Operating in the pandemic environment required capacity to be agile and respond quickly as
unforeseen needs arose, and when the scope of that ‘need’ could at times be itself evolving.
The schedule to deliver an effective and enduring response was challenging.

The Quarantine Centres demonstrated the difficulty of delivering when the final ‘need’ is not
settled as final quarantine requirements were still being settled throughout the concept
design, tender for construction and mobilisation to delivery.




                                                                                                  8
                                                                          Department of Finance
                              Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                 December 2023

   •   The Centres required more bespoke solutions to enable broad quarantine and safe
       and effective site operations while minimised risk of infection transfer. As such, the
       Centres incorporate design and fit out beyond what would normally be provisioned for
       a like facility.
   •   This added to the complexity and cost during delivery, and while effective design and
       oversight ensured the Centres were delivered on time and budget, this issue of ‘need’
       restricted the capacity to deliver an infrastructure solution sooner.

The end result remains three enduring facilities of the highest quality and specifications to
support ongoing disaster and emergency readiness across Australia. Finance notes that in
hindsight a clearer picture of underlying requirements and what governments/society/the
market could bear could have expedited more cost-effective, fit-for-purpose solutions and
responses to the pandemic.

But acknowledging the difficulty in confirming this at the time, Finance supports subsequent
efforts to better inform what response settings should be in place for infrastructure or service
delivery to respond to future like events.

The pandemic further showed the immediate and far-reaching impacts that an international
event can have on supply chains, market capacity and resilience, and factors such as cost
escalation.

   •   Throughout 2021, supply chains were disrupted as a consequence of border closures
       and key goods and services being in high demand. This has led to a series of
       responses including better planning about supply chains and stockpiling and bringing
       certain critical goods and dependencies back onshore.

Finance notes that while additional resources could be committed to reduce the impact of
future similar events, it is important to balance this approach against the consequence and
likelihood of future events. Ensuring responses remain proportionate and represent value for
money to taxpayers should remain the cornerstone consideration in developing options and
implementing future anticipated capacity requirements.

The work of Finance and other entities around ensuring legislative and regulatory powers
and avenues supported the pandemic response demonstrated the importance of strong
legislative, regulatory and process frameworks being in place to support responses in a
timely way. A key learned experience from the pandemic was that many of the avenues for
providing assistance were able to be adopted from existing measures in a timely way in
response to the evolving uncertain situation. Relying heavily on existing mechanisms to
provide support (such as JobSeeker) and using existing information and tax frameworks to
design new assistance arrangements (such as Cash Flow Boost and JobKeeper) enabled an
appropriately rapid response while minimising unintended consequences.

Finally, Finance acknowledges the excellent commitment and response from its people to the
pandemic. As noted above, the broader Australian Public Service was in lockdown and
working from home for much of the pandemic. Despite this, Finance’s people continued to
deliver policy analysis and advice, services and delivery of the highest calibre, demonstrating
flexibility, resilience and professionalism in the work they do. The stewardship Finance’s
people have demonstrated coming out of the pandemic, bringing lessons learned into the
department’s day-to-day operations and broader engagement, provides confidence in the
preparedness of Finance and the broader Australian Public Service to engage in and
respond positively to any events that impact Australia in the future.



                                                                                                   9
                                                                          Department of Finance
                              Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                 December 2023

Finance appreciates the opportunity to make a Submission to this inquiry and would
welcome the opportunity to assist the Inquiry further in expanding on any of the observations
made here.




                                                                                              10
