I have been significantly affected by the COVID-19 mandates, especially during 2020 and 2021.

   •       As a primary school teacher for^|years, I completed a Masters of                        in        and this is the
       role I now fulfil in a primary school. When the mandates were enforced by our Premier, Dominic Perrottet, I
       found it bizarre that the government - and my own school - could force anyone to inject themselves with an
       experimental substance - without rigorous testing as for 'normal' vaccines - and then rushed through the 'red
       tape' to have it approved. Equally as bizarre was the fact that if I didn't do it, I wasn't allowed to work any more
       and could lose my job!


   •   In my workplace I felt the pressure from other staff to get the 'vaccine' - 'for the greater good'. This was a way
       to make us feel guilty and selfish if we thought differently. Gladys Berejiklian discouraged us from speaking to
       neighbours or people at the shops. This was a way to isolate us even more, thinking that I was the only one in
       my circle of friends and acquaintances who was asking questions.

   •   I finally succumbed to the pressure, despite the fact that my husband, who majored in^^^^^^^|at
       University, was discouraging me to go ahead with it. The peer pressure, and threat to my career (only a couple of
       years from retirement) was the final straw. I knew it was wrong, but I went ahead anyway with one AstraZeneca
       injection - a decision I now sadly regret.


   •   When the government then insisted on 2 injections, I really started to feel strongly that there was something
       wrong and said NO after many emails with the Principal. I requested a Risk Management Plan about any danger I
       might experience if coerced by my workplace to take the vaccine. This was not forthcoming as they didn't have
       the evidence. They had to cover themselves. All the Principal wanted was the piece of paper from myGov - my
       green tick. I said that if he could prove to me that the injection was SAFE, EFFECTIVE and NECESSARY, I would go
       ahead when Novavax came out. He couldn't do that so I was told I couldn't return.


   •   I obtained a legitimate exemption from my GP, but it was rejected. I wasn't given a reason. Because we were
       'siloed' in our workplace, especially during online learning, teachers were not wanting to share their views for
       fear of being ostracised. They trusted everything they were told. I thought I was alone. Thankfully, through the
       grape vine at work, I discovered 4 more staff out of over 100 who said no. Throughout the time we were
       mandated and not allowed to be on school grounds. We were a support and a lifeline for each other, attending
       peaceful rallies together to try and keep our jobs. Online social groups were also a great support.


   •   Throughout all or this I had to take stress leave - using up a lot of my sick pay - then during 20211 had to take
       long service leave, taken at half pay. I have been financially disadvantaged because of the decision b y the
       government to mandate the 'vaccine' for all teachers.


   •   The mandate caused a rift in my family. My daughter and her husband didn't agree with my stance, and I wasn't
       able to see my grandchildren because of these restrictions. They didn't want us to talk to them about it or send
       any other information that would contradict what the media was telling them. It has never been the same since.


   •   The fact that those who chose the remain vaccine free were ostracised and treated as a different class of people
       is abhorrent! We were made to feel like second class citizens, suffering online abuse and ridicule, having to put
       up with the virtue signalling from those who proudly boasted that they were fully vaccinated. Unsubstantiated
       claims by our health minister, who has no medical background, were being thrust at us every day on TV. We
       were being bullied and shamed into complying.


   •   Positives: I have learned to question everything and not believe all that has is fed to me by our government via
       the mainstream media. Life-changing!
I trust that my account of what happened to me, as a result of the COVID-19 mandates, can educate those
aiming "to improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics" (which will come).


         Don't ever take away a person's autonomy concerning their own medical decisions.
