 I writing a submission for the Covidl9 response inquiry. I am writing as a concerned
 Australian citizen (individual). Due to the federal and state government responses to the
 COVID 19 virus I have been greatly impacted in many areas of my life. I refused to take this
 novel vaccine, MRNa injection as I did not think it had been properly tested and researched.
 I was living in^^^^^|and there were very few cases and the risk to myself seemed very
 low. I am quite healthy and active, in              In OLD the vaccine mandates began in
 December 2021. As such I was barred from participating inand enjoying many activities. I
 felt stigmatised and angry at the government. My family and friends became divided along
 lines of vaccinated verses unvaccinated. These family relationships have still not completely
 recovered. This is true for many people that I know. The majority of people I know, including
 my extended family took these mrna covid injections to be able to continue working so that
 they could support themselves and their families and pay their bills. A few people I know
 took it to travle. I have talked to very few people who were jabbed out of concern for the
 covid virus. Many people had already had a mild covid illness and werent worried about
 covid.

 AS a social worker I was unable to work in my professional field due to the injection
 mandates and yet prior to the mandates I continued to go to work everyday until late 2021.
 I left my job                    which was lucky for me as I would have been forced to
 resign by December 2021. This vaccination discrimination continues to this day. I have been
 working in retail for over a year, I would very much like to work in the aged care sector
 however I am unable to as the organisations still required COVID 19 vaccines, generally 3
 shots. My weekly income is less than half of my previous job as a social worker. I am a
^^^^Hand I definately feel disadvantaged by this discrimination. IT is well established
 knowledge and fact that the COVId 19 injections do not stop infection or transmission. This
 needed to be acknowledged publicly and discussed , not censored, as happened in Australia
 and many other countries around the world. The impact from lockdowns and mandates on
 individual wellbeing, mental health and relationships has been huge and damaging.

 Medical treatments should NEVER be mandated. All medical treatments come with risk. The
 number of adverse events from the COVID jabs have been huge worldwide. The government
 does not have the right to disregard an individual's human rights for informed medical
 consent and medical choice. The federal government was complcit with the state mandates
 by allowing access to immunisation records. These mandates were never justified. The jabs
 didnt stop infection or transmission. The safe and effective mantra was a lie. Many people
 want the governments and businesses who enforced vaccine mandates to be help
 accountable. I have friends and friends of friends in the medical and aged care sector who
 quit or were made redundant due to covid mandates. Our health/medical services including
 nurses (7000 no longer working in qld) and ambulance drivers, OTs continue to be
 dangerously short staffed. The vaccine mandate continues to have consequences
 detrimental to the halth of Australians.

 There was a tremendous waste of tax money by the federal and state governments during
 the covid panic. The federal government ordered the equivalent of 10 doses of COVID
injections for every Australian. This is wasteful and stupid. Vaccines expire. Many of those
doses have been discarded. Lockdowns destroyed many small businesses. Government
employees were unaffected financially and large corporations seemed to be less affectedm
and many were advantaged by the lockdowns.

There was a tremendous waste of time and manpower due to contract tracing. It was
difficult to get professional help for my                such as an occupational therapist, as
they had been re-assigned to the COVID urgent roles (PANIC) such as contact tracing. Where
was the evidence that this would help? Where is the evidence now that it did help? Such a
huge waste of tax-payer money must not happen again.

The government also either ordered or allowed the censorship of medical opinions that
differed to the government narrative and the ^^^^^^^approved narrative. Australia
and its questionable TGA and APRAH did not conduct their own research but just followed
America and the FDA. Cheap repurposed drugs that could have helped and saved people
with early treatment were banned, resulting in higher death tolls for vulnerable Australians.
The World Council for Health has published many studies which show the efficacy of
Ivermectin and other repurposed drugs in saving lives.

As described in the Great Barrington declaration from American doctors, healthy people
should not be quarantined. Future pandemics need to focus only on the vulnerable. The
elderley needed the greatest protection. Releasing Covid sick elderley from hospital and
returning them to aged care facilities caused the most vulnerable to be exposed and suffer
the most.

Above sll the government should not PANIC. It should not believe its own propaganda. It
should make decisions for the best interest of Australians and not for their own political
careers and financial advantage. The govermenment, in future, needs to consult widely
from specialists/ experienced people in the medical and other fields including immunologist,
cardiologists, pathologists, GPs treating people etc and also economists, educators and
small business people. The government should not rely on medical bureaucrats. The
government needs to re-gain the trust of many Australians who do not presently trust that
the government is making decisions for the best interests of this great nation. Other
governments around the world, such as the Danish government responded to emerging
data and adapted their covid policies to reflect the emerging data. Australia did not.

Hopefully Australia will learn from it's mistakes and respond more humanely and be more
economically responsible. All actions have consequences. The consequences need to be
considered. A risk / benefit analysis must be done and continually updated as evidence
arises. Responses should not be based on flawed modelling . Medical emergencies should
not be used as opportunities for politicians to take away our human rights. I urge the
Australian government to study the Swedish response to the covid panic and follow their
lead which resulted in much better financial and health outcomes for its population
compared to the countries who locked down, censored dissenting opinions / facts and
mandated covid injections. These measures follow the authoritarianism of China, not the
values of individual freedom, responsibility and dignity upon which Western civilizations are
built.



Sincerely
