Governance

The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care have published a document that
includes vaccination as a step in “Breaking the Chain of Infection”. The vaccines do not stop
infection of the respiratory tract, or, stop or reduce transmission of the Covid virus to another
person. The document is the “Break the Chain of Infection” Poster published in 2021 and still on
the website on 15 Dec 2023. (www.safetvandqualitv.gov.au/publications-and-resources/resource-
library/break-chain-infection-poster-a3) This document has no clinical immunological basis to
claim that vaccines break the chain of infection.

Another document published by The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care
is The second edition of the Australian Charter of Healthcare Rights published in 2020 and still on
the website on 15 Dec 2023
(www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/partnering-consumers/australian-charter-healthcare-rights).
The document states that “.. Clear information about my condition, the possible benefits and risks
of different tests and treatments, so I can give my informed consent.......” The Breaking the Chain of
Infection” poster violates this requirement for clear information regarding the possible benefits and
risks of taking a Co vid vaccine. Clearly the Health Department are publishing information that does
not have an ethical evidential basis as per the information below.

The Government needs to publish a retraction and advise all health providers and vaccinators
immediately.


   •   The Covid Vaccines do not stop infection of the respiratory tract, or, stop or reduce
       transmission of the Covid virus to another person.
        ° This is because:-
           ■ The Covid vaccines are not active on the mucosal surfaces where the Covid virus
              first infects and then multiplies. This is a basic element of mucosal immunology.


                                    (Russell et al 2020)
           ■   The Covid vaccines are applied in the systemic immune system and do not stimulate
               antibodies in any significant quantity that have been observed in the mucosal
               immune system.

                                                                                                     ■(RusselH^^020y
               Also see (Irrgang et al 2023)
           ■   what is important about the vaccines for covid and for flu is that the vaccines are not sterilizing
               vaccines. If you have a vaccine that will completely eliminate a bug then it's not a question of resistance
               coming about because you've essentially taken out all of those bugs at the beginning. But if you have a
               vaccine against the respiratory tract virus infections you don't do that. You actually suppress you don't
               prevent the transmission from one person to another because you're stimulating only immunity in the
               bloodstream not at the mucosal sites where the virus will multiply         Translation from Youtube Video Dr
               John Campbell and Emeritus Professor Robert Clancy 23 January 2023 starting at the 3:06 minute mark.
               Neither persons have had the opportunity to confirm the meaning of their words or context.
           ■   Multiple world class experts in mucosal immunology have not been asked for their
               thoughts or opinions in the clinical immunology that is critical to a Covid infection.
               Emeritus Professor               is a world expert in mucosal immunology and has
               not been consulted for his thoughts or opinions by any of the parties advising the
               Government.
           ■   The inability of the Covid vaccines to act on the mucosal immune system also
               explains why the trials for the vaccines were only developed to test for reduction in
                  hospitalisation and death. They were not designed to test for stopping infection, or,
                  Stopping or reducing transmission. . way back when there was claims that the covid vaccines,
                  for example, would prevent transmission.......the covid vaccines work systemically and not on the
                  mucosal compartment. There was no way they were ever going to stop transmission. No. Right from the
                  beginning, and those who I think understand the difference between compartments of immunity were fully
                  aware of this., that it would be very unlikely that you would change that transmission ...” Translation from
                  Youtube Video Dr John Campbell and Emeritus Professor Robert Clancy 23 January 2023 starting at the
                  5:58 minute mark. Neither persons have had the opportunity to confirm the meaning of their words or
                  context. Note to Inquiry eminent persons leading the Inquiry: If you require references
                  confirming the vaccine trial design, please contact me immediately and also please
                  explain why you do not already have this information.
              ■   Many of Australia’s very best clinical immunologists who are experts in mucosal
                  immunology have not been consulted and have been ignored. This Inquiry cannot be
                  considered to have performed its role without allowing these experts to give live
                  testimony. Their expertise would have allowed the Governments approach to take a
                  very different course based on ethical evidenced-based medicine that was very clear
                  and well-proven before the start of the pandemic. “...I was amazed at the beginning of the
                  pandemic in Australia talking to my colleagues in clinical Immunology. I'm a clinical immunologist and
                  none of them were being asked for their thoughts and opinions ....”. Translation from Youtube Video Dr
                  John Campbell and Emeritus Professor Robert Clancy 23 January 2023 starting at the 8:04 minute mark.
                  Neither persons have had the opportunity to confirm the meaning of their words or context. Also view
                  the Dr John Campbell and Emeritus Professor Robert Clancy Youtube videos listed
                  in the References to enable an enhanced understanding of Mucosal Immunology
                  relating to the Covid virus and associated vaccines.




References:

Irrgang P, Gerling J, Kocher K, Lapuente D, Steininger P, Habenicht K, Wytopil M, Beileke S,
Schafer S, Zhong J, Ssebyatika G, Krey T, Falcone V, Schiilein C, Peter AS, Nganou-Makamdop K,
Hengel H, Held J, Bogdan C, Uberla K, Schober K, Winkler TH, Tenbusch M. Class switch toward
noninflammatory, spike-specific IgG4 antibodies after repeated SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination.
Sci Immunol. 2023 Jan 27;8(79):eade2798. doi: 10.1126/sciimmunol.ade2798. Epub 2023 Jan 27.
PMID: 36548397; PMCID: PMC9847566.

“Break the Chain of Infection” Poster published in 2021 and still on the website on 15 Dec 2023.
(www.safetyandquality.gov.au/publications-and-resources/resource-library/break-chain-infection-
poster-a3)

Youtube Videos Dr John Campbell and Emeritus Professor Robert Clancy

Immunology with Professor Robert Clancy - 24 Jan 2022 YouTube Campbell
        https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=FPPnyzvO7J4
Clinical immunology in the Covid era -18 Jun 2022 YouTube Campbell Clancy
      https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=q8jVEpBlieE
Infection and immunity, Professor Clancy - 16 Jul 2022 YouTube Campbell
      https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=yjGI5Wqggfk
Immunity, history and understanding - 16 Aug 2022 YouTube Campbell Clancy
      https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=KGzqh7PeAvg
Immunology of mRNA vaccines 14 Jan 2023 - YouTube
      https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=yMyERFBdB4E
The corruption of evidence based medicine - 20 Jan 2023 Clancy YouTube
     https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=s2wGgOCYrjY
Vaccines and viral variants 23 Jan 2023- YouTube
     https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=LaVZNVQ3Xps
Understanding immunity and inflammation, part 1-7 Feb 2023 - Clancy - YouTube
     https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=_y5orohmalE
Professor Clancy, long covid and immunity -16 Mar 2023 YouTube
     https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=SjXJUwbgKeA
Immunology, the cellular era - 21 Mar 2023 Clancy Campbell
     https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=EcobrDzmIdE
Immunology, the molecular era - 24 Mar 2023 Robert Clancy John Campbell
       https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=jBra0wx8mEQ
Vaccine report FOI, Professor Clancy - 26 Mar 2023 - YouTube
       https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=pYkN7Gdpl8w
Immunology, the modern era - Robert Clancy John Campbell 6 Apr 2023
       https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=G2UV0Mal-yM
New safe form of immunization - Robert Clancy 12 Jul 2023
       https://www. youtube. com/watch?v=elBkEJpvuG8

Video Peter McCullough, MD and Robert Clancy
Common Mucosal System and Immunobiotics: Courageous Discourse with Dr. Robert Clancy
16 Jul 2023
       https://petermcculloughmd.substack.eom/p/common-mucosal-system-and-immunobiotics




Citation for Russell etal 2020
AUTHOR=Russell Michael W., Moldoveanu Zina, Ogra Pearay L., Mestecky Jiri

TITLE=Mucosal Immunity in COVID-19: A Neglected but Critical Aspect of SARS-CoV-2 Infection

JOURNAL=Frontiers in Immunology

VOLUME=11

YEAR=2020

URL=https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fimmu. 2020.611337

DOI=10.3389/fimmu.2020.611337

ISSN=1664-3224

ABSTRACT=The mucosal immune system is the largest component of the entire immune system, having evolved to provide
protection at the main sites of infectious threat: the mucosae. As SARS-CoV-2 initially infects the upper respiratory
