13th December 2023

Submission regarding the term of reference for the Covid Inquiry

Carol Wild -                                                      Mob:

To whom it may concern,

My submission has 5 areas of concern:

    1.         The origin of the COVID

    The origin of the covid virus must be established and officially announced to make plain that it is
    not a conspiracy theory that it began in Wuhan laboratory that was funded by America. Make
    known also that such laboratories exist in Australian capital cities amongst our densely populated
    areas. This is dangerous and hidden and needs to be made public and reconsidered.


    2.         Indemnity is being normalised in Australia and should stop.

    Why does our nation provide Indemnity for approx. 14 COVID products, with the last endorsement
    being given on 10th Oct 2023? Pharmaceutical Companies have a strong history of prosecution
    after lying about their research and product safety and should not have Indemnity to the deaths
    and damages they cause. Indemnity should also not be given to any groups of people. Do
    Politicians, Commissioners or Government appointed medical Officers have vaccine mandate
    indemnity? Members of the public with Medical history supporting Indemnity, were refused due to
    the directions of the Government. Thankfully the Fire Department was able to protect its members
    ability to choose regarding vaccination. The World Health Organisation (WHO) have published
    that 400 mRNA products are in production for humans, livestock and pets. This technology is
    clearly damaging to health and I do not give my consent.


    3.         Procurement of vaccines

    mRNA Vaccines and the process of the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) to endorse the
    use, should be examined. Is there any truth that the TGA did not examine this thoroughly and
    followed the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in America, accepting their
    endorsement? Millions of excess vaccines were purchased by the Australian Government
    providing vast sums to Pharmaceutical Companies unnecessarily Clearly this is why so many
    were donated overseas. The Government continues to pander to              with the construction
    of a factory in Victoria and this needs to be examined. The uptake oTCovID vaccines is
    plummeting and the public do not support ongoing damage to their health.

                   cannot disclose private arrangements with vaccine providers to give transparency.
    What is being hidden?                    suspended in March 2021 and we should suspend or
    cease vaccination for COVID immediately, as many other nations have done. Australia should exit
    our WHO membership, save the funding for medical improvements in Australia, and make our
    own Democratic decisions.


    4.         Reported COVID Deaths and Media Control

    The daily reporting by State Premiers and Chief Medical Officers and their affect to the public
    should be closely examined. So many lies were pushed onto the public and used to generate
    fear, mass obsessive thoughts, shame to manipulate behaviour and public victimisation of those
    who chose their democratic right and freedom of choice, to remain unvaccinated and/or
    unmasked. Among the lies were a massive distortion of the rising COVID death toll and no
    reporting of the safe recovery of the huge proportion of both vaccinated and unvaccinated people
    following infection. Emotional stories were often wrongly attributed to COVID, as people with
    serious pre-existing conditions were featured. Main stream media should be ashamed of how bias
the relentless reporting was, supported the Government rhetoric, despite many varying facts.
Information should be sought from the Funeral Directors who saw changes in death statistics and
when this occurred, to see their perspective.

      Many facts were not acknowledged:
     - Death certificates attributed COVID as the cause of death when this was the last in a string
     of pre-existing or co-morbid conditions.
     - mRNA vaccines were never tested to reduce transmissibility.
     -Vaccines were safe and effective.
     - Child deaths from the vaccine
     - Adult deaths from the vaccine
     - Many vaccine injuries unacknowledged
     -Antiviral treatments available until GP's were banned from prescribing them. Government
     should never control G.P. Medical prescribing in that way or impose upon the G.P. and
     Patient confidential relationships.
     - Counting of the COVID death toll was dealt with differently than any other disease.
     Ordinarily a Disease is counted seasonally, for easy comparisons and this time the counting
     was accumulative to be so much more impressive. Comparison rates to Influenza would have
     provided a much more realistic picture and was therefore not made public.

5.      Economic distress and related health impact.

     Our country remains in a fragile and distressed position due to the economic disaster the
     Government decided to impose. Hindsight clearly shows the Swedish model is the best way
     forward. Initially, the goodwill of the Australian public to help, quickly fell behind the
     Government strategy, when we were “all in this together”. I, like many others wanted to
     support anything to keep us all healthy and functioning. But the cracks soon emerged as lies
     were presented as fact and the grim truth of the expectations of Small Business to carry the
     load, became evident. Next the lockdowns, QR coding, masks, vaccine mandates and
     bullying. Never again should our country follow this shattering example. Lower socio
     economic groups with restricted housing and lower incomes were disproportionally suffering
     and that is not acceptable when compared to the outcome. Children's Education and
     development has been irreparably damaged and for those living with domestic violence this
     amounted to abandonment. Many Australians no longer trust the State and Federal
     Governments and hopefully a transparent and honest COVID enquiry can go some way to
     repair this damage.

     I thank you for the opportunit^^mak^^submission and hope consideratia^^W^^^^^>
     persons such as Senator^^^^^^^^^|to speak about excess deaths, |
     Research Director for Australian Citizens to examine Economic impacts and DrH
     to examine vaccine deaths and injuries. These people could bring exceptional views to a
     regrettably exceptional situation.




     Yours sincerely,
     Carol Wild.
