Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry 2023

My name is                    I am a senior operational manager in the community sector with a 25 year
career in health and community services sectors serving vulnerable people. I was working as an
                     in the health sector when the pandemic started and I worked through the whole of
2020 both in the office and for periods at home. I was part of the pandemic response team at work
serving various roles in Incident Command for^^^^^^^^H I was vaccinated in September 2021 and
unfortunatel^na^^evei^^actioi^^h^Asti^Zenec^ose that required overnight hospitalization due
                                                                 Thankfully my condition improved but I
had ongoing symptoms related to my                                                        Despite ongoing
symptoms everyday as I was unable to be diagnosed and I did not meet the limited ATAGI exemption
guidelines. Even though I was still sick with a mystery illness I was forced to get another vaccine to keep
my job- nausea is specifically mentioned as not being eligible in the extended guideline for vaccine
injuries. After a second dose I became much worse,Still four GP's
could not work out what was wrong with me and I was still so sick everyday. When the definition of fully
vaccinated was changed to three doses, I was still unable to get an exemption and I had to prioritise my
health-1 was sacked. The effect on my mental health was massive: A career of service, injured by a
workplace direction, and then sacked- due to previously managed                          developed

It took nearly 12 months to find out what was wrong with me- a condition called         My new Dr had a
special interest in the area- or never would have been diagnosed. He informed me that this
                               that was triggered by the shock to my body caused by the vaccine, and
because it wasn't cured with^^^^^^Khe second vaccine worsened the condition due to the
additional stress to my body. He recommend I didn't have any more covid vaccines but had no provision
in the ATAGI Guidelines to provide me an exemption. He was the 5th GP to tell me this since the first
serious adverse reaction.

This has led me to understand very keenly that the ATAGI guidelines are too narrow and do not allow for
conditions like mine to be able to be provided with proper care. To add further insult to injury, I was not
eligible for compensation! The tight eligibility in the guidelines for the Government Vaccine
Compensation Scheme also locked me out!

I wrote to every politician could think of- on both sides of politics, to let them know this terrible injustice
was happening- THEY IGNORED ME! No one would meet with me. Senator Gerard Rennick was the only
one that seemed to care but there is not much he can do- as the consensus among politicians seems to
be to ignore and berate the victims of these measures. I fell through the cracks... I went mad for a year...
I'm still rebuilding my life.

I suffered the following systemic abuse due to poor vaccine exemption scheme and have experienced
this to be clinically unethical eligibility:

    •   I was injured by a workplace direction and then abused by the system- sacked! This is a cruel
        and inhumane approach.
    •   I was injured by two different vaccines. However, I found I was not eligible for a medical
        exemption or compensation, even though I was still sick. I was to try a third type! This was not
        even clinically appropriate!
    •       I was then sacked, even though I worked from home at the time.
    •   After all of that trauma, it took me 12 months (self funded and Centrelink) to find a job because
        even though I'm double vaccinated I was ineligible for most jobs due to requirements for 'fully
        vaccinated'. I was also not performing too well in interviews due to my poor mental health.
    •       I was not eligible for compensation- I've also had to cover all my own significant medical costs.
    •       I experienced stigma and discrimination that continues to this day when I tell my story!

I have medical records to support my story and really hope that someone will listen this time. Feel free
to look me up on Linked In to see my career which was leveled.

Please see below for details to help the inquiry in regard to statements.



Due to not fitting the definition of FULLY VACCINATED I suffer discrimination due to industry (Health,
Aged Care, Disability, Vic/local Government) vaccination requirements:

    •   Health and adjacent sectors are expected to keep the vaccine requirements via OH&S law-1 can
        hardly work anywhere now, even though I'm double vaccinated- how can we say that one more
        is fully vaccinated, when the efficacy of the vaccines is known to wane quickly.
    •   I cannot work in State Government jobs due to requirements even though it is my right under
        Victoria Charter of Human Rights.
    •   It took me 12 months (self funded and Centrelink) to find a job because even though I'm double
        vaccinated I was ineligible for most jobs due to requirements for 'fully vaccinated'- so I was not
        only changing sectors which would have been hard enough but locked out generally!
    •   The booster mandate by definition, only sacked people who were double vaccinated- right before
        the worst wave of covid- none of these people could be described as being against the vaccine
    •   I worked in health for over^^| at the time from home but was still sacked as part of company
        policy- they will now enshrine this in their employment contracts locking people like me out
        forever
    •        I did not work at the front line-1 was
    •   I've been incredibly careful and I've never had covid- this makes the whole situation sadder- my
        career destroyed, my health destroyed... for nothing
    •   Politicians have dehumanized and encouraged discrimination to those who are not vaccinated-
        their own people- We would never allow this discrimination to happen to any other group
    •   Politicians say they are doing this because they care about their people but my case shows
        that they don't!

More information on politicians and their staff dismissing me and doing nothing to help

    •   I emailed as many as I could just before I was sacked over the booster mandate- none of them
        have done anything!
            o some even specifically noted that they supported the decisions and policies that were
                destroying my life and health... very insensitive responses that broke my heart at the
                time.
            o Their responses have been insensitive, someone even mentioned that GP's may be
                reluctant to give exemptions because of 'anti vaxxers', as if this were an excuse,
                minimising the situation and not looking at the facts of the exemption criteria!
             o   I've noted casual discrimination, questioning my story as if I'm making it up or trying to
                 deliberately cause vaccine hesitancy - imagine if you could not get adequate medical
                 care and your government supported the situation, then turned on you like you were an
                 enemy! My faith in God is the only reason I'm alive.

I support this inquiry into the Covid measures but believe there needs to be a Royal Commission.

I hope this inquiry will address:

    1.   The lack of medical exemption options for people with significant reactions and/or ongoing
         injuries who can not get an exemption or cannot to gain an exemption permanently- this
         should be easy, as the mental health impact of an injury is significant... we shouldn't be
         expected t go get another dose... this is extremely traumatic. It will get these people back to
         work
    2.        Allow sacked partially vaccinated workers back to work and,
    3.   Remove these requirements validity in OH&S law- allow all sacked health workers to go back to
         work
    4.   Fully dismantle the two-tier society enabled by 'fully vaccinated' requirements allowing the
         unvaccinated to have equal opportunity
    5.   Actively discourage discrimination of all kinds- if we allow one type of discrimination by stealth,
         we allow them all
    6.   Ensure that Human Rights and Freedom of speech are nurtured- otherwise people will
         continue to get angrier and angrier- we need to come back together as a community!



My Story of Vaccine Injury
My name             and was a healthy, vibrant, robust,^^^^^^H woman before my vaccinations.
I was in the best shape of my life; I worked really hard on keeping my body strong and never got sick
with anything more than cold or flu. I enjoyed my job and was looking to purchase my first home.
I worked as a                                                                   a large ^^^^^^|based
not for profit, health organisation. They announced an organisation-wide, mandate across our
workforce, whether you were working clinically, back of house or from home, that we had to be fully
vaccinated to continue working for them.

As soon as I heard that the government were rolling out vaccines, I had concerns, as I knew that they
were in clinical trial stages and that the manufacturers were protected with no recourse if anything
happened. I didn't want to catch covid and had some concerns regarding the Delta strain that was being
spoken of at the time as my^^is^^^J and a^^^M so I convinced myself that it was the right thing
to do and to keep my job.

On 6 September 2021, My                         nd I had the AstraZeneca (AZ) covid vaccine. I had
spoken to my GP in the weeks prior and they said that it was safe for me to get vaccinated while
recovering from a

I went home and that evening I started experience quite severe flu like symptoms like hot and cold, run
down and fatigued. This continued for 4 days, after which I started to feel better and thought that this
was normal post vaccine.
 On 12 September, I was walking down the street and out of nowhere was                                      t
 felt like something had^^^^H^^H                I managed to get myself home where the
        continued and I started to get H                                     and the
 had come back, but with a vengeance.

 I was scared, as the nurses had told me to look out for symptoms after one week having had AZ. I did a
 telehealth with my GP I could tell right away that she was rattled and told me that if I didn't improve by
 the next 24 hours to go to Emergency. The next two days were a blur and I spent was in a^^^H in
             I could hardly^^| and had no energy to get out of bed. I did another telehealth with my GP
 who told me to go straight to Emergency. I went to^^^^^^^^Hwhich was a covid hotspot at the
 time. I was told on arrival that if I came in there I would have to isolate for 14 days and that I should go
 to my GP for tests. I got an uber to my GP Clinic and called on the way. The receptionist told me to come
 straight in, my Dr would see me right away.

 When I arrived, the Dr who did the telehealth ushered me into her office and said, 'we won't do these
 tests here, you need to go back to ED'. I told her what happened at^^Mwhich didn't change anything,
 and she told me to try another hospital. Again, I got an Uber, this time                        I told the
 triage nurse what had happened thus far and that I had my AZ vaccine a week earlier and believed that
 it was the cause of my issues. I sat in ED for over an hour^^^^^^^^l When I saw a Dr, the first
 thing he said to me was "it is good you got AZ, it was definitely the right thing to do" I was holding my
^^^^^^^^|and was that^^^^Hl could barely keep my eyes open and thought that was a strange
 thing to say. He then went on to lecture me that I should not be there and should have had tests at my
 GP clinic. I remember thinking "I am so sick, why won't anyone HELP ME"! This was just the start of
 discrimination I experienced from the medical professions.

This experience at ED was horrific, I was treated like a nuisance. I felt so degraded and have never felt so
insignificant. I now know what marginalised people feel like. I was sent to the short stay ward where
they tried to get       put of me. I was
^^^|lt was very difficult for them to take any           it took ages and they had multiple attempts
messing my hand up in the process. After the                                         , I went to toilet my
body eliminated!                       . At the same time, I got my           which was not due. I felt like I
was going to die.

 I was trying to keep it together while waiting. The tests came back and showed the           was positive,
 whicl^he^lidn't believe and tested again. Again, they messed around with my hand which was^^^H
 and^^^Mat this stage trying to                again. Again, it was               I believe this meant
 the^^^^^evel in my body was higher than normal and suggested I may be at risk of                    I was
 then admitted to the covid ward in a vacuum sealed "covid cell' on the ward even though I had
 produced a negative covid test.

 I was given ^^^^|and monitored overnight and woke feeling like my                   had cleared a bit. I had
 spoken with friends on phone and they were praying for me, and had good support over the phone as
 no visitors were allowed. Doctor said to me the next morning that they were very busy overnight with
 covid patients and 'people like you'. This was said in such a derogatory way. It was obvious that they
 were admitting people with vaccination injuries. They ran my tests again, which came back clear, so I
 was discharged and sent home. Even though I was still feeling                     there was no
 recommendation for follow up.
I went back to the GP clinic but asked for another GP, as I was still so sick with severe
                           he GP ordered a                                |to look at my organs and found
an                He said that would be why I felt so sick and that no other tests were required. The GP
was not concerned about my reaction or my^^H and insisted that it would be safe for me to get the
second vaccination, that I could have Pfizer for my next vaccine. I wish I had not trusted him.

The date for my employer was looming and obviously I didn't want it given what had happened after the
first. I asked her about an exemption, and he said I was not eligible with my current symptoms as they
weren't severe enough. I had to have had a cardiac episode or anaphylaxis to be eligible. He said Pfizer
was lower risk of adverse reaction.

So, on this advice and again to keep my job I got my second dose on 15 October 2021 (left arm) in the
GP rooms with the GP and nurse present. Again, that evening I experienced flu symptoms, which again
lasted 4 days, then went away. After this time, I started to get       all over me and
^^^^^^^^^^Hcontinued, getting worse- it felt like my                                                and
                I became         to most of my personal products, hair products, mascara, deodorants,
hair dye, fake tan, just about everything; I get                      I getfrom sun exposure.

 I went back to the GP clinic again, for the developing sensitivities and                           and
^^^^HThey did more^^^l which came back all clear. I had an                                         hich
 showed a lot of^Hwas present, and I was told that I had^H
 At this point I was trying to work from home and had taken a bit of time off for appointments and
 because I was too unwell to focus. I was so tired and angry every day as I was having to down-regulate
 my emotions while working - it wasn't my team's fault so I was putting my smile on and getting on with
 it, but this took all of my energy to do, I was so depleted. It started affecting my mental health and my
 ability to deal with complex concepts at work, which would normally come naturally. It was like the
 gears wouldn't turn in my brain.

Then there was a further direction from my employer that the booster was mandated. I spoke with my
boss about what had happened to me and that I could not get an exemption. He agreed that this was
totally wrong and spoke to the executive clinical director. He arranged for me to see one of 'our'
doctors. I saw him and told him my story to date. He confirmed that I am not eligible for an exemption
as I do not fall into the severe category of reactions and that mine are and not significant enough! He
said that the Victorian Specialist Immunisation Service (VSIS) where my case should be assessed was
overwhelmed with severe cases so he couldn't refer me there either. He said under the ATAGI guidelines
I must try Novavax but there was no guarantee it would not make me worse. He also arranged for me to
have                                                this had not beei^uggeste^before by any other
doctors, so he sent me off for that. It came back positive for

I was given two types o                that protect the gut lining and felt a bit better over the next week or
so. I had gone from                                  but still daily and still
  ersisted. as did the         I could not risk my health again by having a booster. After 4 weeks of these
             I went back to my usual GP and did the                  again and it was all clear this time. I was
really frustrated at this point as I was still sick!

Prior to this appointment I had done my own research on exemptions and using the 'acute' criteria for
people who have had adverse Vaccinations reactions. I showed the GP a video that                   had
done about this. She said 'ok then, I will do an exemption for you and bump you up to the acute
symptom category, but I won't do it now, I will do it after work today". I called the next day as I hadn't
heard anything and was told that the GP wanted to see me again. I go in and she told me that she
cannot put me into the acute category as my symptoms do not fit there; I am still sick, how can you say I
have to get a booster?? She said she didn't know much about gastrointestinal issues but could refer me
to another doctor who did....

Before I could get in to see this new GP, on 29 March, 2022 I was sacked from my job for not getting my
vaccination in time. I had tried desperately to comply with my employer's order and injured because of
the compliance and sacked anyway 11 Even though I was working from home and they knew the vaccine
had made me sick.

I grew up in a family where no one went to university and had a tough upbringing. I worked butt off in
life serving the community and now I feel as though I have been marginalised and treated so badly by
the government, my employer, and the health care system. It has taken me 5 doctors before I found one
who would listen and now feel as though my heart had been ripped out. I was at such a low point and
had to wait a month before I could get in to see the next doctor.

When I did, he got me to do a different breath test for                                              He
thought that my story and symptoms were consistent with this condition and said he has been treating a
lot of vaccine injured and had seen a lot of this and was confident he could help me. The test came back
  ositive, and he put me straight on to a                      to prepare my|                     >f
                   , with a few weeks break between each. Following each course o
on             which will try to restore the natural function of the gut.

He believes that the        may be causing my|                                   and that the
come about because my immune system was/is so disregulated due to the vaccine and it does not
recognise 'friend or foe'; it attacks healthy bugs and lets bad ones into blood the stream. He has also put
me on a                       which is helping.

Since my vaccinations I now feel like I have had no control over my body or my life. When I posted things
I was experiencing online I received so much hate and had 'friends' making insensitive comments. The
leadership in this country supports the discrimination I face and has been dividing us, it is so sad.

To date I now have                           which I never had before and have
        a one with                                    . Some of my                                    and
my                     I eat 1200 calories per day and exercise gently in an attempt to keep my weight
down. I feel like I stink all the time as these conditions give you                               I am like
a toxic waste dump with all of these toxins in my blood.

I have been seeing counsellor have good family support and good friends who understand this, but have
lost so many people through the process, including my relationship. I am not eligible for the
compensation scheme as my injuries are not 'severe enough'. The guidelines for exemption and
compensation are just too stringent;^^^^^^^^| issues post Vaccinations are not on the ATAGI
reactions form but are in the Pfizer FOI report.

I have spent over^^H/n savings, which was part of my house deposit I have applied for 100's ofjobs
with no joy until this month-1 finally found a job.
My biggest sticking point is that my employer mandated me into a clinical trial which ethics would not
allow in normal times. This mandating is unconscionable. To get vaccinated and get injured, then not be
eligible for anything and there is no support- it has destroyed my faith in government. There is no other
vaccine in history that has done this much damage to people. I have emailed every politician out there.
No response from Dan Andrew's office, Premier of my State. The Greens and Scott Morrison's offices
responded saying that they support heath orders.
               put me on to her Chief of Staff who said 'you should go back to your GP now because all
the anti-vaxxers trying to get exemptions should have died down by now, you might get one'.... (Did he
read my email which stated I'm not eligible). When I noted I was sure I wasn't eligible, I never heard
from him again.

I have spoken out as I would like to raise awareness in the hope that others who are suffering with
                 issues and have a low quality of life might see my story and symptoms and be
experiencing the same thing and searching for justice. My basic learning has been that "the people that
care can't help and people that can help don't care".

I'm happy to be contacted or provide more evidence to support my submission.

Many Thanks,
