                     Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                          14/12/2023


To the Members of the Independent Panel,


I note the Inquiry's goal to improve pandemic preparedness, but I want to highlight the people
left maimed along the way.


I am a man who was born in Australia. I have not previously made my Will be known to the
Australian Government, until now. The Australian people expect the Government, above all
else, to Act in good will to the people that created the Government and the generations of
descendants of people that inherit the Government. The Government’s response to the COVID-
19 pandemic was not in good will of the people.


I am one of the many Australians that were put into a position of career and financial coercion.
After Twenty years working within social services, public health orders were put in place by
Governments, and afterwards echoed by businesses, corporations and organisations that no
one shall work without a certain number of COVID-19 vaccinations. I loved working with people,
an absolute passion that I was blessed to have fallen into early on in life. This is evident through
people’s feedback of my work, the many years of training that I engaged in and the decorated
awards and memorabilia I have from my time in the field.


I no longer work in the social services field. This was because my ability to engage in my bodily
health autonomy was punishable, from the previous career and financial coercion ie: “no jab, no
job”. Not only did I loose my career that day, I lost apart of my identity. The people I worked
with, lost an experienced worker. There were many more, just like me that were forced to leave
that sector, along with many other sectors suffering with staff and employee shortages ever
since.


Words like, mandate, and lockdown, are not in good will of the people, and are more akin to
some dictatorship or prison. I was feeling more apprehension towards the Government for their
COVID-19 policies, than that of the COVID-19 virus itself. These were policies that put people
out of jobs, police violence upon protestors, police entering businesses and shutting them down,
police entering peoples homes, was such a dictatorial policy overreach. Governments were to
seek advice from experts, then inform of the findings to the public. However, advice (opinion)


                                                                                        Daniel Hartley

                                                                                           Page 1 of 2
                     Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                                            14/12/2023


turned into mandate (force). This utterly negates human rights and the free will to live life
autonomously. This was done to the majority who were healthy, and were not sick or unwell.
Living life in general is a risk. You could go outside and get hit by a car, this does not mean we
mandate the abolishment of all cars - but this was the Governments logic as it related to
COVID-19.


During COVID-19 pandemic response the Government achieved: its people were financially
ruined by being forced to cease work, its people had to completely cease employment due to
vaccination coercion, use police as threat and intimidation to policy, locked down curfew &
border closures of its people and movement, kept children from school, kept people apart,
families apart, friends apart, created social division and discrimination, the list goes on. This was
COVID-19 policy. This was not in good will of the people.


My lived experience and written Will represents a highlight for proper investigation into
Australia's COVID-19 response. As the exclusion of State and Territory Government decisions
has been oversighted in the Inquiry's goal. However, these policies that I’ve mentioned were
fundamental to Australia’s pandemic response and should be included in the Inquiry.


The Government must not do this again, ever, to its people.


Regards


Daniel Hartley




                                                                                        Daniel Hartley

                                                                                            Page 2 of 2
