                          Submission to:
          Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry
                                                     by Jennifer Dall
                                                 13 December, 2023


The following is a brief indication of some of my key objections to the
governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Were we given a decent
amount of time to make submissions to this important question, I would
certainly have said more.

Governance, including roles and responsibilities

The Federal government failed:
   (1)      to uphold the unalienable rights of Australians to not be
      discriminated against in the workplace on the basis of medical status (for
      example, they could have passed the relevant proposed legislation), and
      thereby
   (2)      to uphold their commitment to the Geneva Convention (the right to
      informed consent to medical intervention).



Key health response measures

(1) The TGA was entirely derelict in its responsibilities. This dereliction of duty
has led to dire consequences.

The Vaccines.
     I heard a representative of the TGA reply to a question in Senate
     Questions, that the TGA did not attempt to assess the safety of the
     genetic interventions proffered by^^B                and|
     (calling them "vaccines" under a conveniently re-defined use of the
     word): that instead they relied upon the US FDA who had more staff! The
     FDA in turn has told us that they simply relied upon^^^H own
     assessment of their product's safety. This is akin to asKm^he fox to
     guard the hen house, and is a clear abuse of vested interest.

      As it turns out, there are many (bright) red flags pointing over and over
      again to the lack of safety of these new medical technologies. The sharp
      and unprecedented rise in (non-covid) excess deaths following
      "vaccination" being just one such.

Early Treatment.
      A substantial body of research literature supports the use of various re­
      purposed existing off-patent drugs - with known safety profiles - as


Submission to Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry           p.l
by Jennifer Dall, 13 December, 2023
       prophylactic and/or early treatment for SAR.S-CoV-2. Had this been
       recognised - whilst it would have saved many lives and huge social
       disruption - the emergency use of the new gene therapies could not have
       been given. Denying early treatment with these cheap, safe, effective
       drugs (and supplements such as zinc and vitamin D3) was clearly a move
       calculated to serve the interests of pharmaceutical investors, NOT the
       health and well-being of the Australian public.

I understand that the TGA is 94-96% funded by pharmaceutical companies,
and as such is no longer able to serve the Australian people. It needs to be
disbanded, and replaced by a body that can do its due diligence to appraise the
safety (at least) of therapeutic goods.

(2) The sanctity of the Doctor-Patient Relationship.
AHPRA writing to our doctors to let them know that they were expected to
abandon their job in finding the best treatment for each individual patient, and
(under threat of otherwise losing their registration and livelihood) instead
follow a public health "solution" cobbled together by health bureaucrats (with
no training in medical ethics) was jaw-dropping in its import. I now know many
many many people who say that they cannot trust doctors ever again. The
medical system (which had been stumbling under the strain for some time) is
now broken as a result of this short-sighted pandering to the commercial
interests of Big Pharma.


(3) Public Messaging.
The use of "Nudge" messaging, based as it was on the one goal of advancing
the "vaccine" roll-out - irrespective of whether or not the truth was accurately
represented or not - was unethical. For instance:

       (i) Citizens who died with Covid (but the majority of whom did not die
       of Covid) were tallied up and widely publicised as "Covid Cases" in order
       to increase fear in the public.
       (ii) Little children were told they must be vaccinated (and wear masks)
       to "save Grandma", when (a) it is not the job of children to protect and
       worry about adults: it should be the reverse; (b) the vaccines provided
       no reduction in transmission, and the evidence indicates that mask­
       wearing is ineffective in the case of aerosol transmission, so this was
       simply disingenuous at best; (c) healthy young people were at virtually
       no risk from Covid, yet at considerable risk of vaccine injury - so
       expecting them to risk being sacrificed to carry this burden of reaching
       the impossible-to-reach "herd immunity" is shameful.
       (iii) The public in general were set against their neighbours, with fear-
       propelled hatred being fanned against "the Unvaccinated". [Please note
       that I myself chose to be vaccinated, yet I did not want to be pitted
       against my friends, family, neighbours, as I think that this is very


Submission to Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry         P-2
by Jennifer Dall, 13 December, 2023
       unhealthy in terms of our mental health and community spirit. I believed
       - will always believe - that medical treatment is rightly the private
       choice of the individual. Later on, as I learned the truth about the trial
       data, and how we had been hood-winked, I began to voice my concerns,
       and met first-hand the discriminatory mind-set that had been purposely
       cultivated by our governments.]


As I am sure you must be aware, large numbers of we, the Australian people,
feel betrayed by what happened in 2020-2023, and is continuing to happen:
no apologies have been issued for the coercion, nor for the exorbitant
expenditure of tax-payers money on ineffective medical interventions and
testing, no acknowledgement of the extensive vaccine injuries, no sign given
that next time would be any different. A great many of us complied with what
was asked of us, in the belief that governmental bodies were doing their best
at a difficult time. But as we have realised what really took place, we have lost
our trust in the medical system, and more broadly in representative
government being something that we can believe in to work well for our
society. Instead we see increasing censorship of open debate of the important
issues of our time. I believe that history will show 2020 to be a turning point in
the demolition of democracy as we know it.

Thank you for reading my submission, and for doing this investigation. I hope
that you can somehow find the wherewithal to make a fair and honest
appraisal, and summary, of the material presented to you.

                                                                       Jennifer Dall
                                                                  13 December 2023




Submission to Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry            p.3
by Jennifer Dall, 13 December, 2023
