Q   Actuaries
    Institute.
14 December 2023



Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


PO Box 6500
CANBERRA ACT 2600



Dear Sir/Madam,

Response to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

The Actuaries Institute ('the Institute') welcomes the opportunity to provide feedback to the
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry. The Institute is the peak professional
body for actuaries in Australia and our members have applied their risk and financial management
expertise to analyse pandemic-related data to inform the actuarial profession, the industries they
advise and policy discussions.

Since mid-2020, the Institute's COVID-19 Mortality Working Group has published detailed
estimates of excess mortality (the number of deaths above what would have been expected to occur
without the pandemic). This ongoing work remains one of Australia's leading analyses of the
ongoing effects of COVID-19 on Australia's mortality. The Institute's Research Paper "How
COVID-19 has affected mortality in 2020 to 2022" (the Research Paper) published in July 2023
contains extensive analysis of excess mortality in Australia and compares Australia's mortality
experience with the rest of the world.

Excess mortality is a key measure of the impact of a pandemic. It captures pandemic-related deaths
not reported as such, as well as reflecting mortality savings from defence measures, such as
occurred in Australia in 2020 when border closures and lockdowns reduced the incidence of flu
and other respiratory diseases. We acknowledge, however, that it does not measure the impact on
physical or mental health, or on services such as the provision of health care. Nor does it consider
the wider economic impact of the pandemic.

Governance and the health response

Observation: Australia has experienced relatively low excess mortality during the pandemic,
consistent with Its relatively high per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP)

•    Excess mortality in Australia over the three years 2020-2022 was 4%, which compares
     favourably with the 14% population average of the countries we have analysed.

                                                                                Actuaries Institute
                                                                                                   Q   Actuaries
                                                                                                       Institute.


•   Australia compares favourably with most English-speaking countries. For example, Canada
    (6% excess), UK (10%) and USA (14%) were higher, while NZ (0%) was lower.

•   In our time-zone region, Japan (2%) and Taiwan (4%) had lower excess mortality, while
    Malaysia (7%) and Singapore (9%) had higher excess.

•   Excess mortality is correlated with the effective application of defence measures, intended to
    restrict the spread of disease; reduce the severity of its impact; and protect the vulnerable.
    This can be more readily achieved in a developed economy, where there is greater capacity to
    compensate individuals for loss of income; to treat the sick; and to secure vaccines when
    these become available.

•   Compared with per capita GDP, global experience shows a strong reducing trend - that is,
    higher GDP implies lower excess mortality1. Note that GDP is a good indicator of state
    capacity, a concept described by Hanson & Sigman, which has other contributory factors,
    including the ability to enforce compliance with defence measures (such as lockdowns) and
    administrative capacity (such as quality of the health care system).

•   Australia's excess mortality is consistent with the trend, suggesting that the response was no
    more or less effective, in terms of lives lost, than would be expected, given our level of GDP.

•   In comparison, NZ's response was far more effective, while the USA experienced much higher
    excess mortality than its GDP would suggest. Most countries in our time-zone region had
    substantially lower excess mortality than their GDP would suggest.

Lessons and areas for improvement

•   When considering how to mitigate the potential mortality impact of a future pandemic, we
    recommend further analysis to understand why countries with broadly similar economic
    capacities experienced divergent mortality outcomes.

•   Communication and leadership from Government are critical during a public health
    emergency, particularly when social media may be a key channel of information (and
    disinformation) for many members of the community. Governments and their agencies must
    provide transparent decision making during a public health emergency to effectively deliver
    policy responses that may be unpopular with segments of the community. To avoid




1 "World-wide experience", page 7, figure 4, How COVID-9 has affected mortality in 2020 to 2022.



                                                                                                   Page 2 of 5
                                                                                     Q     Actuaries
                                                                                           Institute.


    misinformation from other channels, Government information should be factual, timely, useful
    and authoritative to engender confidence in the community.

•   Recent comments by Sir^^^^^^Min his submission to the UK COVID-19 Inquiry highlight
    the power of data dashboards. In Australia, unlike the UK where the government supplied
    excellent data, useful data dashboards were generally supplied by volunteer data scientists,
    such as                                    (both awarded OAM for this work), work which
    was made difficult by inconsistent and challenging data presentation by State and Federal
    governments and health bodies.

•   Comprehensive, consistent and reliable data must be available for public access and analysis.
    For example, misinformation about the risks and benefits of vaccinations was difficult to refute
    in the absence of proper data. Equally, it is hard to construct a national view - or to compare
    state outcomes - when state-provided data varies in timing and definition.

•   The complexity of intersecting factors affecting mortality should be explained during a
    pandemic. The mortality of a population is significantly affected by demographics (age, sex
    and comorbidities), making comparisons of population mortality rates highly complex. This
    was evidenced by widespread misinformation relating to the mortality of vaccinated versus
    unvaccinated members of Australia's population. Assistance should be sought from experts in
    such matters, including actuaries.

•   While mitigated by innovative solutions such as wastewater testing, the lack of random testing
    of the population (as was done in the UK for COVID-19 and Long COVID symptoms) is a
    significant obstacle to policy formation and review.

•   The Australian Government's commitment to establish the Australian Centre for Disease
    Control in 2024 may solve some of the abovementioned problems by ensuring consistent
    definitions and the national compilation and publication of pandemic related data.

•   We encourage Government to invest in their data science and communications teams, with
    the goal of improving accessibility, presentation and communication of complex data. There
    have been some fantastic examples of innovative presentation of data over the pandemic,
    including          Twitter account providing high quality outbreaks maps. We encourage
    closer monitoring of social media, and correcting misinformation, by Governments and their
    agencies (including Health Departments). The Australian Electoral Commission's social media
    provides high quality examples of Government interaction with social media.




                                                                                          Page 3 of 5
                                                                                                               Q      Actuaries
                                                                                                                      Institute.


    Financial Support for Industry, Business and Individuals

    Observation: Financial support reduces the disruption suffered by businesses and individuals
    in a pandemic, but greater consideration should be given to managing the ongoing impact on
    the economy

    Experience around the world shows that economic activity reduces in the face of a severe
    pandemic, whether or not governments mandate movement controls such as lockdowns. This has
    direct and indirect impacts on the income of businesses and individuals. If Government does not
    provide or facilitate financial support, there will be significant adverse consequences for social
    cohesion and the capacity of the country to return to some degree of normality in due course.

    Financial support initiatives for COVID-19 included JobKeeper and JobSeeker Coronavirus
    Supplement payments, home rental caps and the Commonwealth Government's COVID-19 early
    access to superannuation program. Other Government support measures may be considered for a
future pandemic, depending on the circumstances at the time.

    The significant financial supports had an impact on the Australian Actuaries Intergenerational Equity
    Index (AAIEI), last updated in 2021 and incorporating data for most indicators up to the end of 2020.
    In 2018, the intergenerational gap in wealth and wellbeing between 65-74-year-olds and 25-34-
    year-olds was at its highest level since 2000 (the first year for which the index has been calculated).
    The gap narrowed slightly during 2020 - its first reduction since 2012. Improvements in aspects
    under the 'Economic' domain were key contributors to that narrowing of the gap, including
    temporary government supports during 20202. These supports played a particularly substantive
    role for young people: without them, we think it likely that intergenerational gaps would have
    widened further.

    We note that any financial support provided today has implications tomorrow:

•      Payments from general revenue, such as JobKeeper, add to the national debt, which must be
       repaid over time. The existence of the debt, plus the cost of interest payments, reduces the
       capacity of the economy to fund other future initiatives. Therefore, it is incumbent on the




    2 Since that time, the Institute has published a broader report on wealth and wellbeing and issues of equity in Not a level
    playing field: Exploring issues of inequality. That report notes the global trend of widening income and wealth inequality,
    discusses the drivers in Australia and potential policy responses. While it does not include a specific analysis of the impact
    of the pandemic, it may be of background interest to the Inquiry.



                                                                                                                     Page 4 of 5
                                                                                     Q     Actuaries
                                                                                           Institute.


    Government of the day to build in safeguards to minimise wastage. This process can be
    assisted by designing key elements and principles before the next pandemic (or another crisis)
    arrives.

•    Early release of savings held in superannuation funds has long-term consequences for
     retirement incomes. We consider that future initiatives enabling individuals at scale to access
    their superannuation in times of crisis would benefit from a clear decision framework that
     ensures the integrity of the retirement income system. The proposed Superannuation
     (Objective) Bill 2023 provides this framework, with the objective of superannuation defined as
     "to preserve savings to deliver income for a dignified retirement, alongside government
     support, in an equitable and sustainable way." The accompanying Explanatory Materials state
     that "superannuation savings should not be accessed for purposes outside of retirement
     income, apart from in exceptional circumstances^ and "members will maintain recourse for
     early access for genuine and exceptional hardship." These would have been helpful guardrails
     had they been in place at the time of the pandemic.



If you would like further information or to arrange a meeting to discuss this submission, please
contact me on                   or

Yours sincerely

(Signed) Elayne Grace

CEO




                                                                                          Page 5 of 5
