About AMSA

The Australian Maritime Safety Authority is an independent Commonwealth statutory authority
which regulates safety and environmental standards for domestic and international
commercial ships in Australia, maintains a network of aids to navigation in Australian waters
and coordinates marine pollution response and search and rescue operations.

AMSA certifies Australian seafarers, ships and operations, and inspects international ships
visiting Australian ports. AMSA leads the Australian delegation to the International Maritime
Organization, the United Nations specialised agency responsible for developing global
shipping standards, alongside representatives from Australian Government departments.

AMSA’s support to the maritime industry during the COVID 19 pandemic

The Australian Government identified the need to ensure that the shipping industry could
continue to operate early in the pandemic and established regular coordination meetings
across government. Within our remit, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority (AMSA)
implemented multiple measures to ease regulatory burden on seafarers and the maritime
industry during the COVID-19 pandemic, including:

   •   an automatic extension to the validity of certificates of competency issued under the
       International Convention on Standards of Training Certification and Watchkeeping
       (STCW) and the Marine Safety (Domestic Commercial Vessel) National Law Act 2012
       (National Law) from March-October 2020. This permitted seafarers to continue to
       perform their duties even if their certificate had expired.

   •   issuing individual risk-based exemptions for operators and seafarers unable to comply
       with the National Law requirements due to COVID-19. These included crewing levels,
       crew duties, vessel surveys, equipment certification, compass adjustment, vessel
       operations, first aid certificates, and suspension of certificates.

   •   applying a pragmatic approach to docking surveys and               International Safety
       Management code certification for RAVs.

   •   working with ship operators to facilitate crew changes and repatriation of seafarers,
       and where this was not possible, providing exemptions to allow seafarers to remain
       working onboard their ship for up to 14 months continuously, if the seafarer willingly
       accepted the extension and there was a plan to repatriate the seafarer within one
       month on conclusion of the 14-month term.

   •   leading research into seafarer’s mental health during the pandemic and releasing
       guidance on the link between seafarer fatigue and safety incidents.

Seafarers are critical to the operation of the global supply chain of essential goods and
equipment. Seafarer welfare was impacted by challenges with crew changes, repatriation, and
medical evacuations during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Australia was one of the first countries to require repatriation of seafarers by ship operators,
including by chartering flights, diverting to crew change hubs (Philippines), and crew change
prior to arrival or delaying departure to facilitate crew change; however, it was sometimes
impossible to enforce standard working conditions, including the limit of 11 months
consecutive service onboard a ship, as required by the Maritime Labour Convention 2006
(MLCj. It was also often difficult to arrange medical evacuations for seafarers with State and
Territory Governments.

These issues highlight the importance of early coordination with State authorities and
alignment of requirements to ensure Australia continues to comply with its obligations under
international law.

Extended periods at sea and inconsistent access to medical assistance impacted seafarer’s
health and wellbeing. Recognizing this, AMSA conducted research and ran campaigns
focusing on mental health at sea during the pandemic. The campaigns included sharing
guidance and resources on seafarer mental health. It also raised awareness of AMSA’s strong
commitment to seafarer welfare and reinforced the importance of looking after the mental
health of seafarers at all levels in the maritime industry.

During the pandemic AMSA identified shortfalls in data relating to global deaths at sea. As a
result, AMSA submitted a proposal under an international convention to mandate the
requirement to report all fatalities at sea at the Maritime Labour Convention Special Tripartite
Committee (STC) meeting. The STC agreed to the proposal which is a significant positive
outcome for the maritime industry and the first-time mandatory reporting will be collated by the
International Labour Organization (ILO) on deaths from any sector in the world.

As a result of lessons learned during the pandemic, the ILO MLC STC, at its fourth session in
2022, adopted amendments to the MLC to provide further clarity around issues such as
entitlement to food and water, medical care, access to internet services and repatriation.
AMSA is amending relevant subordinate legislation (marine orders) to give full effect to these
amendments which will enter into force globally in December 2024.

The United Nations and International Maritime Organization

The IMO developed guidance to facilitate international shipping from the beginning of the
pandemic. The IMO Secretary-General expressed concerns about the humanitarian and
safety issues experienced by seafarers and made repeated calls to nations to designate
seafarers and maritime personnel as ‘key workers’ to help facilitate crew changes,
repatriation and medical evacuation.

From September 2020, IMO technical committees, followed by the Assembly, adopted
Resolutions relating to crew change, access to medical care and seafarer travel during the
COVID-19 pandemic. The issue was also raised at the 75th session of the UN General
Assembly during high-level week, resulting in an UNGA Resolution. IMO established the
Seafarer Crisis Action Team (SCAT) which advocated on behalf of seafarers in distress to
IMO member governments.

These challenges were global, but some nations were able to more quickly articulate
procedures for crew changes, repatriation, and medical assistance. This challenge was
particularly acute for Australian delegates due to State-based differences in pandemic
management, the speed of change in the requirements during the pandemic, and the
number of portfolios involved in the decision-making.

AMSA’s activities
State and territory travel restrictions and quarantine requirements affected AMSA’s
maintenance work program, causing delays to maintenance works for critical navigational
infrastructure. Travel of technicians was authorised but with significant delay. AMSA’s audit
and inspection oversight program could not be conducted. There were also supply chain
constraints that impacted availability of spare parts.

Medical evacuations and search and rescue activities were heavily impacted by increased
regulations from the various jurisdictions. It was necessary for AMSA to increase its
coordination across Government agencies and contractors to navigate through the extra
requirements and enable repatriation to their home state or territory where viable. Some
incidents involving foreign nationals required repatriation to their home country and
additional coordination through foreign embassies.

Lessons learned to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.

   •   A flexible and risk-based approach to regulation ensured the maritime industry could
       continue to operate more easily during the pandemic. Communication of available
       exemptions and extensions through AMSA connect, operational staff, our website and
       other channels worked well.
   •   Strong communication between Australian Government and State and Territory
       counterparts is critical during major events.
   •   Like many nations, Australia faced challenges facilitating crew changes and providing
       medical evacuation and assistance to international crew. This has implications for
       supply chain security, crew welfare and ship safety. It would be useful to develop a
       nationally agreed plan to address these challenges and to protect the safety and
       wellbeing of maritime industry personnel during future emergencies.
   •   It was difficult to clearly communicate Australia’s arrangements for crew changes and
       medical evacuation in international forums. Maintaining clear and concise
       communication internationally during a crisis is important to safeguard our reputation
       and reassure seafarers travelling to our shores.
   •   AMSA is leading ongoing research into seafarer welfare, mental health, fatigue and
       safety, which may provide useful data to inform risk-based management in future
       emergencies.
