I have many concerns about the COVID response:



Rather famously, a number of household products and foodstuffs were in short supply at various
times. This was unfortunate because it disadvantaged the disabled and those who were performing
essential work more than most and because it caused everyone to mix much more than they should.
It was surprising to me that the government had not been prepared with a rationing system and that
they did not roll one out as the pandemic response continued. If a check in app can be rushed out
the door, why not a rationing app? Australia's emergency preparedness demands that such an app
be ready to roll to cover whatever eventuates in the way of a disaster in the future.



The Federal government's response in banning citizens from returning from overseas was deplorable.
A citizen has no rights at all if they are prevented from returning to their own country. This is an
extremely serious matter.



Throughout the pandemic response, Governments around the nation were far too ready to infringe
on basic human rights. I am astounded that freedoms were infringed without consulting the people.



Many "health" measures were unhelpful or unnecessary. For example, banning people from
exercising at the beach was illogical. Salt water is a disinfectant. There was a widespread
unwillingness to reverse decisions that turned out to be a mistake.



There was a widespread call to the authority of the science, but it turned out that the science that
was being depended upon was not nearly as settled as it was made out to be. Someone needs to be
held to account for the lies that were told about "the science" by the government.



Media organisations were far to willing to follow the government line and failed in their duty to
question policy and hold leaders to account. This apparent collusion to very widespread mistrust of
the government and the media.



Closing pools had a significant and ongoing impact on the health of disabled people who depend on
pools for hydrotherapy and other in-water exercises. This was an extremely ill-considered restriction.
Pools are full of chemicals that have a long track record of controlling the spread of communicable
diseases.



Police Forces around the country were far too heavy handed with anyone who was in any way
doubtful of the official COVID policy. In a democracy people are entitled to disagree with the
government and are entitled to say so, in whatever manner they feel is necessary.
The astounding hypocrisy of government officials and politicians exempting themselves from the
restrictions they were imposing on the rest of the population was disgusting and un-Australian. Such
people should resign out of shame.
