Anonymous: ie: not to be released to the public.



Background:
I had my employment terminated as                                             to the Covid19
vaccine mandate. I was employed full time permanently for |

My employer at this time told me that despite my having a doctor’s certificate specifying that
because of preexisting medical conditions, the mNRA vaccines posed significant risks to me,
I would be terminated. I had my local MP involved with trying to get the SA Minister of
Health, to ensure that my case was processed in a timely manner. At this time, I also
applied for exemption to the Chief Medical Officer, Nicola Spurrier, but was informed by her,
that I would need to be assessed by their medical team to determine eligibility for exemption
and was advised that they were booked out for approx 3-6 months.

By this time, I had less than a week to meet my employer’s requirements.
My GP was glad to know that I had my name down to possibly be part of Professor!
        | rial of a traditional Covid vaccine technology. (I was chosen to be part of the trial
in 2022 & had 2 injections of the covax - now https://vaxine.net/ vaccine).

I asked my employer, if I could use my LSL to see if a non mRNA vaccine became approved,
but they said no and as I could not comply with the government mandate requirements, they
would have to offer my permanent status to attract another applicant. I was not paid
termination allowance, only LSL as despite my workplace agreement not stating compliance
to vaccine mandates were required, it was enforced in line with government regulations.

As my termination coincided with the school holidays, I went to Centrelink to see if there was
any possibility of interim financial support. We were saving for our first ever house but since
termination that is not looking possible. Ironically, because we had a house deposit,
Centrelink say we need to live off that. If we owned a house they would assist - at least with
a Health Care Card. This is another case of grossly unfair action by the bipartisan
government decision to enforce the experimental mRNA vaccine mandate.

(My wife lost her job due to the covid lockdowns and the business she was in reducing staff)

We were saving for our first house and had a deposit to enable this. We were told that due to
this deposit, we would not be able to apply for support until we used it up enough to meet
support requirements. If we owned a home, they would support us, if we gambled it away,
they would support us, basically if we used it up we could get support.

As a result of my termination from the vaccine mandate, due to a culmination of burnout,
anxiety/ depression following my forced redundancy, I have not been able to resume
pursuing employment. Due to ongoing stress from the situation I was forced into by the
government mandate, I had a heart attack in Jan 22.

I                             and hoped to now be living in our first house, working till I
was approximately 70 years old as a teacher helping to encourage students to pursue much
needed trades.

We are now facing retirement in 6+ years with minimal super and eating into our house
deposit that should still be growing.




                                                                                               1
The outlook at this stage of our lives is somewhat bleak, chewing through our only liquid
asset that is eroding with inflation. Add to this cost-of-living pressure and instead of security
in retirement in our own home, living in a vehicle seems imminent and a very stressful
situation to contemplate.

Relevance to the inquiry:
Financial support for individuals:
As you can see from the above, the system is not capable of providing fair outcomes for
people that have medical concerns about the government mandating vaccines. If the
government is responsible for terminating employment, they should be responsible to
provide ongoing income, superannuation and other payments to the individuals (increased
as per inflation and wage rises indexed to inflation etc.).

Governance, including roles and responsibilities:
Clearly the government has been shown to be driven by fear and unfounded “facts” provided
by pharmaceutical manufacturers. We were told ad nauseum that the vaccines were safe,
effective and would “stop the spread” of covid 19. The media was also complicit in promoting
these untruths. Informed patient consent should have been honoured, not dismissed.

Lockdowns, masks, schools closed, public gatherings limited, were all enforced with no real
effect on controlling covid. Instead, the fallout on peoples’ lives, vaccine injuries,
unbelievable government debt incurred and ongoing small business attrition from fear driven
policies needs to be addressed by a Royal Commission. The government owe it to the
Australian people to show the unbiased truth.

In reality, the government had the responsibility to access the many effective responses to
covid that existed but were suppressed. ^^^^^^^^|had developed and had trialled a
vaccine that was proved effective, was tested and accepted overseas before the covid
mandates were enforced but despite being developed in Australia his company was
continually buried in government bureaucracy to prevent it from being allowed for Australian
citizens. See https://vaxine.net/about/people/ and https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=Cx-
rsN8ffD4

Another example re possible solutions the government ignored: “Given the evidence of efficacy,
safety, low cost, and current death rates, ivermectin is likely to have an impact on health and
economic outcomes of the pandemic across many countries. Ivermectin is not a new and
experimental drug with an unknown safety profile. It is a WHO "Essential Medicine"... "
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8248252/

The government is responsible for the measures they have taken and may take in
unprecedented events and should protect Australian citizens from predatory multinational
businesses and organisations.

The government should also protect and respect citizens choices regarding medical choices
individuals make.

The government bodies did not listen to many other reputable medical concerns and in fact
has been shown to have actively suppressed any such concerns. Eg: The safety of
AstraZeneca has now been questioned as more cases of adverse reactions start to surface
https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/advice-for-providers/clinical-
quidance/tts



                                                                                                    2
The fact that Pfizer actively tried to hide adverse side effects of their mNRA vaccines by
attempting suppression of information for many years is cause for grave concerns of
governance in any future events.

International polices to support Australians at home and abroad:
Current moves by the UN to control Australian citizens in any future pandemics is of extreme
concern and should be stopped. The UN has been shown to be compromised and corrupt in
many documented cases. We don’t need any flawed external interference and overreach to
manage Australian citizens.

Key health response measures:
Australian citizens should never again face job loss, financial disincentives or any adverse
government response for decisions relating to their health. Truly informed consent should
have been allowed and encouraged.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations:
The government needs to make sure suppressive systems and bureaucracy do not overrule
it’s citizens rights to make their own medical decisions.

If you want more information, please email me                     as I would not want
anyone to suffer as I and many others have because of ill-informed government decisions.




                                                                                               3
