As a deceived and vaccine-injured South Australian, I make my submission on the basis of
personal truth and experience.

Terrified at the rapid progression of physical disability that followed my first Pfizer injection, I
shall never forget the words of the immunologist at the^^^^^^^^Hospital who, (although
inundated) was eventually able to return my call, an urgent plea for help. Two of his statements
I recall vividly, for they will stay with me forever;

    1) “We are seeing the full gamut; everything from onset of new conditions to exacerbation
       of existing conditions. If there’s one thing I can tell you about the vaccines, it’s to
       expect the unexpected.”
    2) “Well the good news is, that in people like yourself who have reacted badly to the first
       jab, the second jab doesn’t seem to be making them any worse, so that is something
       to keep in mind if you’re considering taking the second one”.

And so, with absurd naivety, indoctrinated faith in the wholesome intent of the majority of the
mainstream medical profession, and pressure from family members who were more terrified
of my not having the second jab than they were of my being potentially permanently disabled,
I turned off my critical thinking and succumbed to the rhetoric. It is without a doubt, the most
detrimental decision I have made in my life to-date.

My injury turned my perceptions of the scientific community and medical professionals and
their agents upside-down, and has completely eroded any semblance of confidence I once
had in our country’s medical structure containing appropriate checks and balances to
safeguard Australians. Subsequently, I have largely exited the mainstream medical system as
a direct consequence of the clandestine nature of the industry.

I now recognise that doctors were effectively gagged, that they risked their licences to practice
should they dare disagree with their colleagues or governing bodies. The question this begs
to me is, how did the governing bodies ever anticipate that this censorship of medical
professionals would play out in the longer term in terms of public confidence and repeat
consumers? Or will this not matter, because the World Health Organisation will, (come 2024)
control the autonomy of the masses in member countries?

Beyond my medical choices, my injury also now influences every deliberate decision I make
in life, from my political stance, to my social values, to my daily patronage choices. It has
caused me to re-examine the integrity of business and corporations I once willingly contracted
with, altering my default stand-point to one of inherent distrust and automatic opt-out/non-
compliance. In essence, I have become an anti-consumer, and an informed-choice patriot.

 In the absence of any official inquiry outcomes, having therefore determined that my own
judgement far exceeds the exactitude of any person or persons still coupled to the vaccine
narrative, I will spend whatever little is left of my life before my former naivety catches up with
me, seeking accountability from our governments and authorities for their part in the
annihilation of the ‘Australian way of life’. Nothing short of commitment to a full Royal
Commission with terms that allow no stone to go unturned, will appease some of my outrage
over the medical, social, financial, and psychological travesty which has been visited upon our
unwitting population.

My submission no doubt reflects that portion of our community whose lives are forever altered
by what has been visited upon us since the pandemic propaganda campaign began, a new
generation of anti-war protesters as it were.           Perhaps our grandchildren, or great
grandchildren, if they are savvy enough, will live to hear ‘The Apology’ in 75 years or so, when
the anger has sufficiently abated, and the generational disconnect over time is optimal. Or will
they spend their lives seeking to understand the medical mysteries of our ‘new normals’?
