To the Covid Inquiry Panel,

Thank you for the opportunity to provide input on Australia's response to the Covid-
19 pandemic. I am writing as a concerned citizen, a parent of two primary school
children with elderly parents. To be honest, I have reservations about the value of
submitting this given the lack of action on the Long Covid inquiry and the
government's tendency to downplay the effects of COVID.

To begin, rebuilding public trust is essential. Transparent, consistent, and empathetic
communication is crucial in providing accurate information to the public. By fostering
trust through open and honest communication, the government can establish
credibility and reliability, which are vital for a successful pandemic response.
Addressing misconceptions and promoting a realistic understanding of the risks
associated with infectious diseases is paramount. It is important to clearly
communicate the potential harm and danger posed by novel variants and dispel any
misconceptions about the benefits of infection. Emphasizing the importance of
preventative measures will help protect public health.

My requests for the ongoing management of Covid and future pandemics are as
follows:
     • An urgent shift towards a more sensible "Living with COVID" approach to
       reduce disability, sickness, and death.
     • Improved public health advice that addresses the airborne transmission
       route, with consistency between the States.
     •     Ensuring safety of all patients in healthcare settings (masks, isolation)
     • Protecting children through improved ventilation in schools and access to
       vaccination.
     •     Responsible media reporting plays a crucial role in shaping public perception.
     • Collaborative efforts between the government, public health experts, and
       media organizations can establish guidelines for responsible reporting,
       reducing misinformation and promoting public understanding.
     • Community engagement and grassroots movements: Governments should
       actively foster partnerships with community organizations, healthcare
       providers, and influential individuals to effectively disseminate accurate
       information, promote behaviour change, and address the unique needs of
       diverse communities.

My family of four experienced Covid infections in mid-2022 despite taking all
available precautions except homeschooling. The virus was brought home by my
eldest daughter from an unventilated classroom. My husband suffered from cardiac
and other symptoms, including tinnitus, for months. My youngest daughter possibly
developed PANS/PANDAS, exhibiting sudden onset OCD signs.
Regrettably, we have seen many cases of debilitating Long Covid and other
complications, including two young healthy friends having heart attacks a couple of
months after COVID infections. Personally, my friends and I have noticed higher
resting heart rates since two months after our "mild" Covid infections - very
concerning. Not become a cold or flu like the Western Australian Chief Health Officer
seemed to say today at a health consumer forum.

Sadly, I have lost trust in the government's commitment to our long-term well-being.
It has become evident that short-term economic considerations and political
aspirations take precedence over public health. For example, the decision not to offer
vaccinations to children under 5 seems misguided, as the risks are low and many
parents would willingly assume them. It appears to be an attempt to expedite the
spread of Covid throughout the population in order to prematurely return to
normality.

The notion that "people are tired of Covid precautions" seems manufactured by the
government. The overwhelming support for the cautious McGowan government in
West Australia's recent elections suggests that people value their health and well­
being. In retrospect, the vaccine mandates appear to be preparing us for a half­
hearted "vaccination-only" approach.

Considerable funds were allocated to ventilation assessments and HERA purifiers, but
little attention was given to ensuring that the recommendations were followed and
the equipment properly used and maintained.

I question why my children are not eligible for vaccine boosters and why schools
send home letters about head lice but not about BSL3 pathogens. The lack of public
health information has resulted in dismissal and ridicule from family, friends,
colleagues, and even healthcare professionals, which is disheartening.

Thank you for considering my submission.
Sincerely,
Claire Hick
