Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry
To whom it may concern,
My name is Fiona Marlow and I am a midwife and Occupational Therapist.
I have lost my job as a midwife. I resigned because I could not follow
AHPRA’s mandated compliance with the narrative that the Covid vaccine is
necessary, safe and effective. If I discuss the Covid vaccine with a woman I
must tell her, it is safe and effective, despite there being no evidence to
support this statement. Every health professional under AHPRA is silenced
on threat of being deregistered if they do not comply with this. This goes
against every fibre in my being, to do no harm, to practice only using the best
available evidence. A novel technology, novel injectable that has no long term
safety data should never be given to a pregnant women. AHPRA needs to be
bought under a federal law so it cannot force health professionals to practice
unsafely. Health practitioners should never be silenced nor coerced to
perform any procedure by a governing regulatory body. This must be
addressed for the safety of all people in Australia and the restoration of faith in
the medical profession.

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,
responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance
mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

As a federal government, changes must be made to legislation that allowed
the states to act independent of federal law and advice. The National Cabinet
should be the final policy makers when a situation is occurring in all states of
the country. Having varied policies and procedures for all states created
confusion and separated families at critical times. This allowed the states to
implement policies that would be illegal under Federal law such as mandating
vaccination for everyone, implementing border restrictions, curfews, and
excessive use of force to control people’s movement and freedom to protest.

Advisors working from models that were untested in the real world should not
be allowed to determine the restrictive policies that were put forward by them.

Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

The Covid vaccines have genetically modified material in them and as such
should have gone through the appropriate government policies and not have
been allowed into the country and widespread distribution.

Vaccination storage and use was ad hoc, facilities were not capable of storing
it the extreme temperature it was required to be stored at.
Health personnel were not trained to safely inject, they did not aspirate. This
is fundamental when giving any injectable.

Covid 19 vaccinations became available many months after they were first
used in the US and UK, Europe. There was already evidence of concerns
about effectiveness and safety. Despite this they were and continue to be
authorised for use in Australia by the TGA. The evidence of proper safety
testing and evaluation must be investigated.

No medication that has not had long term safety data is ever given to
pregnant women. There are strict rules around this following the thalidomide
disaster of the 1960’s. This policy was ignored. As a midwife I have
significant anecdotal evidence of harm these vaccinations are causing to
pregnant women and neonates. This must be fully investigated and funding
for treatment and research into the harm must be made available.

Early treatment was not available. I have worked in health care for 30 years
and never heard of a policy that stated do not seek treatment until you are so
unwell you cannot breathe. This was dangerous and lacked all evidence.
Early treatment solutions were available but were not made available to the
people of Australia. This is not evidence based medical practice and should
never happen again.

But a women with a mild nasal congestion coming in to birth was placed in
isolation and forced to birth in full PRE until the PCR test result was available-
sometimes taking up to 48 hours.

Public health messaging did not reflect evidence based practice. Public health
messaging should be evidence based. Sunlight, vitamin D, exercise and a
healthy diet are fundamental for maintaining the health of all people. The
elderly, whom were most at risk were denied this, being locked inside for
weeks at a time.

 The forced wearing of masks within the hospital caused skin infections and
inflammation in many staff. There was constant supply issues of the masks
staff were required to wear causing them to have to wear un suitable masks.

Wearing plastic PPE for hours at a time on shift caused heat stress, and due
to supply issues staff were forced to stay within a room for 4 hours at a time in
the PPE, suffering heat, breathing issues.

Quarantine facilities were inadequate as many did not provide areas outside
for people to exercise. Locking healthy people in quarantine does not prevent
transmission of disease. It caused mental health stress and ongoing mental
health problems for many locked in quarantine. If unwell, people did not have
access to medical support nor medications needed.

Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns
(for example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to
screening and other preventive health measures).
       The funding provided to increase support for mental health was inadequate.
       Suicide rates have not been updated but anecdotally have increased
       significantly due to isolation, financial stress caused by lockdowns, lack of
       support from friends and family to protect the vulnerable.

   •   International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including
       with regard to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply
       deals with international partners for domestic use in Australia).



   •   Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain
       and transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific
       industries).
   •       Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).
   •   Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher
       education, housing and homelessness measures, family and domestic
       violence measures in areas of Commonwealth Government responsibility).

       As a midwife we are at the frontline of domestic abuse as it often occurs for
       the first time, or escalates during pregnancy. Whilst we could screen we
       could not provide support for women in this situation as there were limited
       resources, staff, or funding to help them.

       Children in less than ideal family situations need access to school or
       childcare. This is where they receive support, can be monitored for their
       wellbeing, often is the only place they receive adequate diet. The restrictions
       placed on access to these vital safety support for vulnerable children were un
       justified and un necessary.



   •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
       populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status,
       geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and
       communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
       communities).

Inevitably there will be future viruses that are of concern. Any future responses must
target the sick, not the well. They must ensure access to early treatment that is
evidence based ie ivermectin was banned when it is safe, cheap and effective
against many viruses.

Children should not be locked in their home without access to their friends, nor to
playgrounds, sporting activities that keep them mentally and physically well.

The impact of school closures has resulted in children falling over 12 months behind
in their early learning as evidenced by outcomes in primary schools. The increase in
children needing intervention for speech and language delays has been caused by
lack of access to interacting with others, and to not being able to see the faces ,
mouths, expressions of people due to mask wearing.

The fear created by the mechanisms imposed far outweighed the risk to the majority
of the population. Any future mechanisms must take the emotional response of fear
into account, are be in line with the actual risk.
