Submission by Mr Allan Hayward,.

I am from                nd have worked in many capacities over the
years from owning my own mechanical repair business to (until my
retirement early this year 2023) spending the past four years working for
our local council. I would like to submit the below comments to the
Inquiry panel from my perspective as a local Govt employee as well as a
former small business owner:



KEY HEALTH RESPONSE MEASURES
"Where there is risk there should be choice".
Many Australians felt co-erced or pressured into taking the Covid-19
vaccines without having satisfactory information or opportunity to make
an informed choice in the matter.

Covid-19 vaccines were provisionally approved for emergency use. The
TGA's website describes provisional approval thus:
"Provisional approval allows us to approve...medicines for a limited
period of time while more research is conducted.
For COVID-19 vaccines, the TGA has agreed to accept rolling data to
enable early evaluation of data as it comes to hand using the provisional
pathway. Sponsors may apply to transition a provisional registration to
full registration when there is more clinical data to confirm the safety of



https://www.tga.gov.au/products/covid-19/covid-19-vaccines/covid-19-
vaccines-regulatory-status

Many Australians also felt there should have been more options for
alternative Covid-19 treatments since international research showed
promising results with anti-virals, even before vaccines became readily

https://committees.parliament.uk/writtenevidence/36858/html/
Vaccine mandates for travel, access to services, employment etc,
whether imposed by State Governments or private employers/
organisations are probably outside the scope of this Federal Inquiry, but
one thing can be suggested - the Federal Government should have
heeded requests to introduce anti-discrimination legislation to prevent
unfair dismissal of employees who chose not to partake of provisionally
approved (for emergency use) medical treatments (eg Covid-19




GOVERNANCE
The Australian Federal Government has spent at least $18 billion on
Covid vaccines and treatments. That's around $1200 transferred from the
pocket of every tax-paying Australian (assuming 15 million taxpayers,
based on recent statistics).

"Of the roughly 255 million vaccine doses the federal government has
purchased, less than a quarter - roughly 60 million — have been
administered around the country.

A further roughly 40 million doses have been donated around the Indo­
Pacific region."

Federal Health Minister Mark Butler in an ABC interview is quoted

"...surplus vaccines we were contractually required to take,"

https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-07-1 8/australia-covid-vaccine-
surplus-options/101237430

"Contractually required" in the above quote implies that our Federal
government was somehow locked into buying excessive quantities. Has
public scrutiny been allowed into the contracts that led to this collossal
expenditure of the Australian budget?
The lack of transparency around vaccine contracts especially Australia's
contract with Pfizer has raised concerns with a lot of people.
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021 -10-20/pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-
contracts/100553958

The veil of secrecy, excessive quantity of vaccines purchased, and
seeming attitude of "accountability dodging" (National Cabinet's so-called
"cabinet confidentiality" protections) have led to widespread public
suspicion and conjecture.

More transparency in such matters is needed.
