13th December 2023

The Secretary Legal and Constitutional Affairs References Committee

Parliament House

Canberra ACT

2600 Australia



Subject: Submission to the Terms of Reference Inquiry for the Covid-19 Royal Commission



Dear Commitee Members,


I am writing to submit my experience and concerns for consideration in the development of
the Terms of Reference for the proposed Covid-19 Royal Commission. My submission
pertains to my personal experience around vaccine mandates and employment.


The mandates resulted in job loss for a freedom of choice I made not to be vaccinated. I did not wish
to receive an experimental vaccine whilst I was pregnant. As there was no good quality data showing
the safety of the vaccine in pregnancy at the time the mandates were enforced. This has affected my
whole family due to financial strain with loss of significant income and house.


I hope that my experience can contribute to the inquiry's focus on the government's response to the
pandemic and vaccination policies now and into the future. No-one should be disadvantaged by
making their own informed choice not to be vaccinated.


I am an Australian citizen and was employed as a Physiotherapist at a private clinic (as contractor) and
public hospital (employed). Both companies required its employees and contractors to be vaccinated
against Covid-19 as a condition of employment. I was therefore unable to continue to work due to this.
It has resulted in significant financial burdens for my family of|with loss of income due to inability to
work and emotional distress.


Concerns and Recommendations:


Vaccine Mandates and Individual Rights:
From my perspective the compulsion to receive the Covid-19 vaccine under the threat of
job loss raises fundamental questions about the boundaries of individual rights. I firmly
believe that no person should be forced to take a medication or vaccine to retain their
employment, especially when proper testing and long-term studies are not unequivocally
established especially on pregnant women.


I wish for the Royal Commission to closely examine the legal and ethical dimensions of these mandates
in relation to individual autonomy amid public health directives.


Vaccine Safety and Monitoring:
The Royal Commission should delve into the mechanisms in place for tracking vaccine safety, ensuring
public confidence in the vaccination process and ensuring independent studies are completed outside
of conflicts of interest parties, such as vaccine manufactures performing studies and releasing their
own data.


I wish for the Royal Commission to ensure studies be completed by independents, without conflicts of
interests and compared with the manufacture's own studies for true replication of safety and efficacy.
If this has been done properly, data in fact would have shown poor efficacy and increased safety signals
early on and therefore would have likely lead to no mandates being enforced in the first place. My job
would have remained and there would have been no financial strain causing


Protection of Employee Rights:
I made my own informed decision, my own informed choice for my own individual circumstance, ie
pregnancy at the time of mandates.
This was taken away from me:
        my right to work,
        my right to earn a living,
        my right to feed my family and have a roof over our heads,
        my right to having a job identity and job security.


I wish for the Royal Commission to thoroughly investigate the protection of employee rights and
individual liberties. The coercion or loss of employment in the workplace due to vaccination
requirements deserves careful examination.
Transparency and Accountability:
Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) actions of threatening the suspension of my
license as a Physiotherapist (and other medical professionals) if I preceded to diverge from the
government's Covid-19 vaccine narrative, I believe have resulted in a heavy dis-trust of the health care
system from a vast number of healthcare practitioners and with wider community.


I wish for the Royal Commission to enforce clear communication, allow open dialogue, and
accountability in the formulation of policies that impact public health, as a lack of transparency or
accountability can erode public trust and hinder the effectiveness of such measures.


In conclusion, my experience with Covid-19 Mandates under coercion and with the sequalae of job
loss, financial hardship and loss of a house has been profoundly challenging for my young family. I
believe that my experience and those of others who have faced similar situations must be taken into
account when shaping the Terms of Reference for the Covid-19 Royal Commission.


I hope my submission and that of many others DO NOT fall on deaf ears and are fully taken into
consideration for the better management of such pandemics.


Yours sincerely,
