The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) has been showing a 17% above average all cause mortality
rate since soon after the Covid vaccination roll out in March 2021 and it is not slowing down. That is
equivalent to a Boeing 747 passenger jet crashing and killing all on board every couple of days for 2
years. Death figures like this haven't been seen since world war 2. There is not a word about this in
the press.

W.A. statistics are notable because the population was not exposed to the virus, this well- above -
average death rate could not be due to Covid but is due to the experimental GMO mRNA injections.

A whistle blower statistician from the Department of Health in New Zealand has just released data
sets which showed ( before names were redacted to protect privacy) not only the vaccinator but the
names of the people who were injected with the same experimental GMO mRNA "vaccines" as were
used in New Zealand , Canada, UK, Europe, The United states, and records the day many of them
died. In one town 51 people received the injection, and they have ALL since died. In another location
30% of the people injected have died, in other places 20% and 17% of the injected have since died.

Why are we told by NZ government that only 4 people have died from the injection, when the
numbers are similar to a ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Joccurring every couple of days since the "vaccine"
rollout?

Why are we told by the TGA that only a handful or people were killed by this injection, when we all
personally KNOW several people who died within 2 years of their jabs?

These demonstrably unsafe products were touted repeatedly by the government as safe and
effective when they were neither. How COULD they have been proven safe when the experiment was
to end some time in 2023, and the people were the subject? You mandated people . forced people
to become a subject in a human experiment, that is against the law. That's against the Nuremberg
code.

There are a lot of people who are permanently disabled too, thanks to your planned pandemic and
the terrible actions of all levels of government.
