Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response
Inquiry
My name is Mrs Lynda Anne Calder                                was a 21-year member of St John
Ambulance (NSW), a Grade V officer in Parramatta Division and the Training Officer of the division
responsible for making sure the members of the division fulfilled all annual accreditation tasks and
kept their qualifications up to date. I was able to train and assess Provide First Aid, Provide Advanced
First Aid, Provide Pain Management, Provide Advanced Resuscitation and Oxygen Administration and
the Certificate II in Emergency Medical First Response. I was an Advanced Responder and have a Cert
IVTAE and Cert IV Health Care as well as Cert IV Leadership, BE (Elec) Hons, DipLang (German),
GradDipEd, MA (Creative Writing).

As the trainer of           St John Division, in March 2021,1 was conducting a Provide Pain
Management and preparing to conduct Provide Advanced Resuscitation courses when the Australian
Government declared the COVID Pandemic and the NSW Government locked down our state. As a
consequence, St John Ambulance (NSW) immediately suspended all face-to-face meetings. I
immediately pivoted to Zoom and used reasonable adjustmentto continue trainingthese courses
remotely, meeting person to person with individuals in my free time to complete the practical
components of the courses.

Through 2020 I continued running all training meetings over Zoom which were opened up to the wider
NSW St John community. We had members from as far as all borders (north, south and west)
attending our Zoom training meetings. All Emergency Health Service duties were suspended except
for those servicing NSW Health quarantine hotels and other similar duties.

Slowly, life began to return to some normality at the end of 2020 and beginning of 2021 but, again in
June 2021 the NSW Government locked down the state and segregated regions into Local Areas of
Concern, depending on case numbers, initially. I live in                         a nd was forced to
abide by outdoor mask mandates, curfews and other draconian measures.

St John Ambulance (NSW) again disallowed meetings and duties and we returned to Zoom for training
meetings.

I am also the Scout Leader in Charge                                             When NSW state was
locked down, all Scouting meetings were moved to Zoom, as well, and I conducted those as well.

All outdoor activities in groups were banned in NSW and my Personal Training who conducted outdoor
training groups also had to move her sessions to an online environment.

Church meetings were also banned and these were also moved to an online environment.

Therefore, I was separated from all contact with friends and extended family and this severely affected
my mental health. Having to be vivacious and engaged through training Zooms and Scouting Zooms
and all other zooms was very draining. My household consists o
we were all forced to live and work in the same household with only respite when going for individual
walks (with a mask on!).
At the end of 2021, there was a big push for people to take the provided AstraZeneca, Pfizer and,
eventually, the Moderna COVID “vaccines” in order for society to open up again. The percentage of
people they required to be vaccinated increased and increased until^^^^^^^^indicated she
would not be happy with anything under 90%.

I have thel




It was immediately evident that the AstraZeneca COVID “vaccine” was causing abnormal clotting in
high numbers and those with^^^^^^^^Hwere therefore able to seek an exemption from this
“vaccine”. However, it was obvious from the DAENS online database that similar thrombolytic events
were occurring with the other mRNA “vaccines” but not in such large numbers. At the time, I wrote to
ATAGI to ask when the number of adverse thrombolytic events would indicate a reason to provide
exemptions forthose with^^^^^^^| to the mRNA “vaccines”. I received no answer.

I decided, according to previous advice from my doctors, NOT to take any of the COVID “vaccines”.

In October, 2021, as St John Ambulance (NSW) was starting to allow members to meet again in person
and attend duties, St John Ambulance (NSW) advised all volunteer members and staff, without
warning, that they had been advised to mandate the COVID “vaccines”. Everyone had to have these
vaccines by 30th November or they would be immediately thrown out of the organisation. Members
could not even remain in the organisation if they were non-clinical and not interacting with patients.
The only reason to remain unvaccinated was to have an exemption. However, ATAGI’s exemption
advice did not allow for exemptions from all vaccines for same condition                    in my case.

I sought to get an exemption from all the COVID “vaccines” from my GP who knew me and my medical
situation. He referred me to a specialist haematologist. Neither my GP nor the specialist would
provide an exemption to the mRNA “vaccines” only the AZ “vaccine. They also BOTH told me this was
a “pandemic of the unvaccinated” when this was clearly not the case because the VACCINATED were
catching and spreading the virus through pubs and clubs where the unvaccinated were not allowed to
enter.

I begged my GP, cried and was almost on my knees pleading for an exemption even if on mental health
grounds because I was extremely fearful of dying from the “vaccines” due to clotting. Instead, my GP
said I should take the “vaccine” and gave me advice on seeking medical care if I became short of
breath or experienced chest pain. Clearly, he knew there were very real risks to my health but he was
unable to provide me an exemption because he was bound by the ATAGI regulations and AHPRA’s
warningto abide by NSW Health requirements. I even asked my GP about the long-term effects of the
“vaccines” and he just laughed at me and said that no one knew. I was not properly informed and
could not really give “informed consent”.
Mentally damaged from the extended lock downs and being separated from friends and my extended
family AND knowing I was a key member of^^^^^^St John Division and they relied on me to
perform their training, I felt I had no choice and reluctantly went to get the Moderna “vaccine”.

I truly felt, as I walked out the door that day, that I was not coming home. I truly believed I would die.
However, in my damaged head this was going to be preferable to the continued separation from my St
John Division, friends and extended family, training group, church and other societal activities. If I took
the “vaccine” and died I could, at least, say that I tried to do what was required.

When I attended the Pharmacy at West Ryde for the first “vaccine” I made it very clear to them I was
being coerced and I did not want the “vaccine” at all AND I even wrote this on my “consent” form. I
wrote that I was being coerced by St John Ambulance (NSW) and                                Therefore, I
really did not give “valid consent”. Knowing this, however, the pharmacist gave me the “vaccine”
anyway-contravening his own code of conduct!

Following this first “vaccine” I felt light headed and dizzy after 15 minutes and within 48 hours had a
^^^^^^^^Hwith pain 8/10 that would have landed me in hospital on IV antibiotics if the oral
antibiotics had notworked.

After the correct amount of time post my two “vaccines” I then went to give plasma at the Red Cross. I




In October 2021, again in January 2022, March 2022, August 2022 and November 2022 I made
complaints to St John Ambulance (NSW) about their vaccine and mask mandates and they were all
met with silence until the organisation received complaints and I was sanctioned on three occasions.
I left the organisation in November 2022 after the final nuisance complaint.

Please find with this submission:

    -   The original email from St John Ambulance (NSW) outlining the “vaccine” mandate which I sent
        to Mark Latham MLC
    -      The FAQ from St John Ambulance (NSW) regarding the “vaccine” mandate
    -   A letter from my local MP Geoff Lee in response to my complaint about the extension of the
        exclusion of unvaccinated people from societal activities
