                                                              Email:

8 December 2023



Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry




To Whom It May Concern

I write to express my deep concern over the COVID-19 response by the Australian
government, and the NSW State Government.

The following is a summary of the unacceptable approach by State and Federal
governments:

   •   No alternative methods of treatment were promoted. It is well known that having a
       strong immune system is the best defence against sickness, with high dose vitamin C
       and zinc the place to start. Ivermectin also is a known covid treatment. Why were
       these methods of treatment silenced!?
   •   Instead there was just one narrative which was 'get vaccinated'. The unvaccinated
       were considered 'second class citizens' and that is an appalling way to treat a citizen
       who is merely exercising bodily autonomy not to get vaccinated.
   •   There was no informed consent provided by government or GPs, as to the potential
       impacts or side effects of covid vaccinations. It was still in the experimental stage of
       development, and should not have been rolled out the way it was without further
       testing and approval.
   •   GPs were bullied into silence at threat of having their registration stripped from
       them. What happened to their oath to 'do no harm' when it comes to enforcing an
       experimental vaccination program?!
   •   APHRA and ATAGI censored doctors from speaking out if they did have the courage to
       do so.

As an Australian citizen, I submit that alternatives must be provided in any future pandemics
in order to give citizens informed consent, bodily autonomy and alternative treatments! The
Australian government must do better!

The governments' response is utterly unacceptable. A Royal Commission should be held,
rather than a mere government Inquiry. The truth must come out about the illegal vaccine
mandates, alleged secret contracts with vaccine manufacturers.

Yours sincerely
