 INQUIRY TERMS OF REFERENCE


 1.   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and
      territory governments,, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National
      Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and
      advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.
 Governance, on both a national and state level (possibly with 1 or 2 states excepted) was
 appallingly heavy handed, authoritarian & downright totalitarian. Individual freedoms were totally
 ignored. The general response was worthy                            dictators, a disgrace for a
 country like Australia which was built on the notion of freedom and a "fair go" for everyone.

 The pursuit by APRHA & the TGA of a South Australian GP (well known to me) who questioned the
 prevailing Covid narrative went so far as covert surveillance on the GP's home & business premises
 & dire warnings about loss of
                                      Absolutely disgraceful.

 The National Cabinet and National Coordination Mechanism was well done, at least so it seemed.
 The public was kept well informed of what the bureaucrats and politicians wanted to tell us.
 Nevertheless, the truth was withheld, and in such a coordinated manner, with state authorities in
 lock step with the Commonwealth, that it was dearly all planned. Arguably, this was done to
 prevent panic, but the evidence that has since emerged about the nefarious role of Big Pharma
                      under the counter payments and fudged results (lies) suggests otherwise.

 The incompetence of our so-called "Chief Medical Officers", both state and federal, in not
 questioning the "advice" from overseas, especially the United States' CDC and FDA, let alone
 seemingly not knowing about the lack of credible testing and the fudged results (lies) is
 breathtaking. Alarmingly, our health system is run by "Pieter Principles", marked by their
 incompetence & me-too isms. When the next "Plandemic" arrives, hopefully not many of the
 public will take any notice of these so-called CMO's.

 2.   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
      medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
      messaging).

 The official response to ignore then discredit with dis-information & downright lies (literaIly^^H
^^|) about existing, effective medications such as Ivermectin (a Nobel Prize winning treatment)
 beggared belief. (Even in the early stages of Covid, evidence from experts such as Dr Peter
 McCullogh and Dr Bob Malone pointed to the efficacy of Ivermectin in treating Covid. In my own
 case, I was able to source Ivermectin when it was still legal, when I got Covid I took Ivermectin
 which quickly cured me).

 But of course, the government can't be pushing the public to take unproven "vaccines" costing
 trillions of US$ if an existing medication costing a few dollars works, hence the massive dis­
 information campaign, from PM Scott Morrison down
           . In my opinion, foisting on the public untried mRNA medications
               which arguably have killed at least 10 million people worldwide, should subject those in
 authority to criminal sanctions. But it won't happen, will it ?
The Australian Govt spent $A1.7 billion on AstraZenaca's failed "vaccine" and gave millions of
dollars to University of Queensland to develop its dud "vaccine", yet refused to support Flinders
University Prof Nicolai Petrovsky who then had (and still has) the only Australian developed Covid
vaccine approved overseas (in Iran), and shown to be not only effective against Covid 19 but with
none of the side effects of the "vaccines" approved by the Aust Govt (such as blood clots,
myocarditis & peri carditis, Guillain-Barre disease - NONE of these) - my wife and I took Prof
Petrovsky's vaccine as a booster in October 2022 and have not had Covid since.

Governments pushed masks even when overseas test results available by that time showed masks
were of dubious benefit, even negative. Locking down nursing homes, and preventing relatives
from visiting them (full PPE in hospitals excepted), was a heinous decision, that those responsible
should come to regret.

The public have now seen through the government double-talk: people have realised that the
"vaccines" don't prevent getting Covid or passing it on, even governments now seem to have given
up trying to persuade people to take the booster shot with its dubious benefits.

3.   Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
     mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive
     health measures).

Lockdowns were a disaster, seriously adversely impacting the jobs and daily lives of millions of
ordinary Australians (but not of course those in power making the decisions). The comments by
SA's "Chief Medical Officer" that Covid could be caught from pizza boxes and that if one attends a
football match at Adelaide Oval "don't touch the football" reek of incompetence. Yet the SA
Government renewed her contract!!

4.   International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to
     international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for
     domestic use in Australia).

In the early stages of the "Covid 19 Plandemic", PM Scott Morrison seemed unconcerned, then
realising that other countries were closing their borders he did the same. At that stage Morrison
could have been forgiven for not knowing who he could rely upon for competent advice when so
many were panicking. But Morrison's subsequent decision to spend millions of dollars to develop a
plant in Victoria to produce the untried & unproven mRNA "vaccine" from Moderna beggars belief.
Sheer incompetence, from PM Scott Morrison, Fed Health Minister Greg Hunt, Fed CMO Brendan
Murphy, Vic Premier Dan Andrews, Vic CMO Brett Sutton. Does promotion to these high levels
necessitate that one leaves one's brain behind ?

(As an aside: when I went to University many years ago I was taught to both think and ask
questions: why is it that these days, otherwise smart university graduates take everything
governments say without question, as if it were the Gospel ?)

5.   Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport
     issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).

Support of industry and business was reasonably well done, even support for local development of
masks (despite their ineffectiveness), at least Govt was seen to be doing something.
6.   Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).
Financial support for individuals was adequate for those only slightly affected but grossly
inadequate for those directly affected by the totalitarian actions of Government (like denying next
of kin access to dying elderly relatives, lockdowns affecting all levels of society esp the employed),

7.   Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing and
     homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of Commonwealth
     Government responsibility).

I do not have specific knowledge of these issues.

8.   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
     across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability,
     First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
     communities).
Lockdowns in high rise apartments in Melbourne, populated by "linguistically diverse communities"
had especially savage effects.

Irrespective of this Inquiry, for the next "Plandemic" no doubt government will try do more of the
same. But I think the Australian public is now awake to the government tactics and thus
government measures to control the population won't be as easy to enforce next time around.
I note that "The Inquiry will consider the findings of previous relevant inquiries and reviews and
identify knowledge gaps for further investigation. It will also consider the global experience and
lessons learnt from other countries in order to improve response measures in the event of future
global pandemics".
But where is the acknowledgement that the Australian people have been conned by incompetent
bureaucrats & nervous politicians who seemingly have no ability to question the bureaucratic
narrative ?
Why is no one being held accountable for the disastrous decisions of the last few years ?
And where are your questions about Covid Vaccine Injuries ?
Nowhere. It is hard to conclude that this is a serious Inquiry, rather its just window dressing, isn't
it?
For the next "Plandemic", the people will change but the message will be the same, won't it ?

In summary, the response led by the Commonwealth with all states in lockstep, the totally
fabricated narrative about vaccine testing ("LIES"), the denial of the use of a perfectly effective
medication (Ivermectin), the "pushing" of untested mRNA based so-called "vaccines" whose serious
side effects are still being felt (e.g. the sudden death of myriads of healthy people from vaccine
induced heart problems) and the gross over-reaction to a virus that is serious for the immune
compromised but not for most healthy people, was a colossal over reach.

The Australian political and bureaucratic response to Covid 19 is clearly the worst example of a
cynical, dictatorial, totalitarian attack on freedoms in Australia's history, worthy of the most
authoritarian                               at its height.
