Covid response.

1. The federal government failed to call the overseas pandemic
'a threat to our national security' (which it was), so relinquishing
power over to the states to behave inconsistently,
unreasonablely and wrecklessly to its people. Were there any
national
guidelines in place to foreshadow and cope with this covid
pandemic? This needs to be reviewed.

2. The drug manufacturers had a 'no liability' clause if people got
harmed using their vaccines. I believe government's were forced
to sign, then force the vaccine on us via blackmail against our
rights of freedom if we didn't comply. We understand restrictions
in movement had to take place. But major over reaches took
place.
So how is it 'lawfully' 'slight of hand' blackmail that this citizen had
to take the vaccine?

3. Greater transparency to the public about why some vaccines
were removed from the market? The sudden withdrawal of
Astrazenica had the affect on the public that the vaccines were
not safe. No rwal explanation why. Yet the vaccines were used as
blackmail that your human rights of movement and freedom to
work were squashed by the Victorian state governmen, if non
compliance to vaccines occurred. This left psychological scares
on me and others that the governments acted without regard for
individual health, in favour of the collective health. The spike
protein used in the vaccine was experimental at best.
In 2022, with 20% of deaths increasing among cohorts,
especially the youth, and no media coverage or government
investigation occurring, many as 'we the people' don't trust this
government any more. They may well have good intentions, yet
time and again they failed to adopt a transparent position.

Even after a third vaccine I was not allowed to travel back home
from^^^|to my^^^l property. This left me with the
unavoidable conclusion that the advantages of vaccines did not
outweigh its harmful affects. And that the Victorian government
had lost perspective on how to manage the pandemic. And worse,
never trusted the effectiveness of the vaccines, yet put us at risk
with harmful side affects. Even after an earthquake I was refused
entry into Victoria to check my house. So I can say the Vic
government acted as                      government, making no
sense at all.
I had planned my escape back across the border via a willing
^Htownship government body that saw the draconian
measures that a Victorian state government had adopted. Yet
as I planned my escape, as like a^^^^^^|citizen, which I
still feel like, the ban of lockdown Was suddenly lifted in Victoria.
As I arrived at the                   border, a police constable
checked mydetails, then askwd me,' bythe way, what^^^H
would you wish to return to this state for? That sums up the
madness of this government to be so out of touch.
I no longer see Australia as my home. I see it as I land I stay
upon. I do not feel my feet walking upon its earth as I used to. I
feel that I walk on rugs where it can be pulled from under me at
anytime. I cannot feel the ground as I do. I it fells like land abused
by politicians that ran on short political cycles. Seeing the
health advisor advising lockdowns, effectively running the
country while flying interstate to Canberra to pin badges on
shirts as an essential service really hurt me mentally. I'm sure
it will happen again in another manner - not if, but when.
I do not feel at home any more. The letter of apology given to me
by Daniel Andrews, which disallowed any public response only
did more damage to my psyche. It Was written under pressure by
an advice from an enquiry and not out of the insight required of a
state premier. My scares remain.
I am not of             decent, yet I now know the feeling of
displacement and fear of what an Australian government can
impose upon our basic human rights. I no longer see the^^^B
             distant reality from our own shores. This is
compounded by the Victoria government low standard of
accountability in
term of his enquiry into his governments handle of lockdowns. In
fact it only served to
mocked Victorians all the more..

4.1 have little faith in this enquiry to bring real change. The lack of
public advertising for Australians to participate is just one
measure of this.

5. The chance to protect the vulnerable on our Australian shores
was lost the day the Australian government let in the flight H
                    in early 2020. These passengers should have
been quarantined (not in their homes). But
                 doubt the government caved into political
correctness and released them into unenforceable quarantines.
Yes I believe in strick measures in the early stages and go with
the advice of scientific experts-prepare, protect the vulnerable
and let herd immunity take out the virus, just as it had done with
the swine flu.
  Instead the government did the opposite. Example, poor
measures at offloading passengers at sea ports.
6. Big conglomerate fast food chains; such

had their staff housed in multiple residents in the society- as
expected. Then meeting at work spreading and infecting the
homes. Isn't that what our overnment's wanted to prevent? Yes.
Yet this is exactly the same as foi^mployee^n any boutique
takeaway shop. So why where the^^H^^^H staff (and other
big food chains) allowed to work, and spread the virus, while non
big food chain staff were not ?
Is this not a misfit with the covid plan of containment? This needs
to be explained, business were destroyed.

7. Why were^^^^^^^^^^^l marches allowed to go ahead
and not other protest marches? Was it that the governments
hoped the virus would not spread on that day? A more likely
answer was that political correctness (a polite way of saying
corruption) levered the government's arm into a bullying position
by^^Mactivists groups. Specifically the government did their
best to appear^^^^H^^^^H so on that day, covid got a
holiday to the rules of the government.

But the covid virus doesn't care about virtue signalling by
governments. This advertised to the rest of us that governments
on federal and state levels were using emotional value systems
to evaluate the virus risk of spread. In other words, a rule for some
but not for others. This gave me another psychological bruising.
Rules swapped at random to suit self interest groups.
The convenience of those in power over the law was on display.
We have not forgotten the double standards as the threat of big
fines and home arrests without a warrant. This occurred daily for
months. Very little was learnt bythe Victorian government bythe
first lockdowns. We call out these lockdowns as the draconian
measures that they were. It showed the overplay of power. And
displayed an ineptitude of handling a suite of other options beyond
the maturity of this government to adopt. It left much
embarrassment to say I'm an Australian. To this day foreigners
remind me of this Vic government to 'dis-handle' of the pandemic.

8. 1 rang the then Federal Labor Opposition party in Canberra
about why the harsh lockdowns continued into the second
lockdowns in Victoria. The Labour rep on the phone said because
a group of 50 people in the first lockdown (previous year, 2020) in
Victoria were allowed to go back home from their different
habitats, only to break out and have a 'Boris Johnston party'. He
said laughingly that we can't trust anyone else. So a
irrationalization brought the heavy hammer upon us all. It's
legacy remains.

9. The use of misinformation itself was a weapon. It has been
weaponize to shut down free speech. This is ongoing today. This
needs to be reversed. For example, you couldn't, and still can't
call the virus a^^^H virus.


                   The psychological trauma of weaponizing the
term, misinformation is of itself misinformation. Please don't
discount the affect of prescribed speech on this individuals
psychological well-being.


10. In the future, The World Health Organisation has no legal right
to control what vaccines go into our arms. Australia is a
sovereign country.
The WHO is putting pressure on our Australian government to
give up one of our sovereign rights - protection of our bodies to
risk, and make that choice of risk for ourselves. No take over of
our health system by overseas groups, particularly the WHO
should ever happen. No bullying by this organisation to sway this
government's duty to protect our sovereignty. Sovereignty starts
with our bodies self determination on health.

11. Independent health data collection initially away from
government eyes. This could bring truth, respect and
transparency to Australia health forum.
