COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT
COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION


Karen Quinn 12 Dec 2023



First of all, how can we take your request for submissions seriously when a mere week is provided
for us to do so ? Especially when there are less than two weeks remaining before Christmas.

During the Covid era, governments assumed enormous powers (never given to them by the people)
and made life-altering decisions for the entire population based on sparse information. They then
used violence and coercion against any who questioned the legitimacy or efficacy of the measures
taken.

If we do not learn critical lessons from this era then we are condemned to no longer being a "free"
country and instead to being a country where human rights no longer exist.
There are a multitude of issues here but I have summarised the key ones:

•   The refusal to allow Australian citizens to return home during a time of crisis cuts at the very
    heart of what it means to be a citizen and represents an enormous breach of faith, It was also
    largely unnecessary save perhaps for the initial two week halt.
•   The National Cabinet has no basis in the Constitution and completely undermines the Rule of
    Law, including our emergency laws which are designed to protect Australian people in moments
    such as these.
•   The National Cabinet operated in secrecy having still not released minutes to this day. Press
    releases are not good enough and this only further dents public confidence and trust.
•   The Prime Minister being able to appoint himself with a plethora of Ministerial positions also
    sets an incredibly dangerous precedent and again further erodes trust.
•   The Federal Government consented (via effective silence) to border closures and other
    inhumane non-medical interventions which led to the deaths of children that were denied
    medical care.
•   The Federal Government consented via silence to State imposed mandates for an experimentally
    approved gene therapy drug in violation of human rights.
•   The dismissal, derision and subsequent banning of known cheap, effective treatments which
    were known then and also known now to be effective treatments for Covid-19. These include
    Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine. The fact that a large supply of Hydroxychloroquine was
    donated to the government bybut was then destroyed speaks volumes to the
    agenda to push untested vaccines upon the unsuspecting public.
•   AHPRA's open threatening and banning of doctors who spoke against the government's
    narrative was also appalling. The medical system was weaponised to achieve political outcomes.
•   The Federal Government's failure to ensure that the emergency approved MRNA therapies were
    assessed as the genetically modified organisms that they are (with regard to a pollutant DNA) is
    a massive failure in duty of care.
•   On top of all of this, nothing has been addressed regarding the fact that the MRNA therapies
    may be (or probably are) responsible for the current extraordinary excess mortality that is being
    observed in Australia. This is something that should be undergoing intense scrutiny but it seems
    that it is being swept under the rug.
•   By April 2020, it was apparent that elderly, or infirm people were more susceptible to death
    from Covid-19 but that all others had approximately a 99.4% survival rate expectation. This was
    never considered in the rules imposed such as lock-downs, border closures, business closures
    and more.
•   Existing therapies should never have been banned even if their efficacy was questionable as they
    were off-label medications with a long history of safety. These bans certainly led to deaths.
•   The Federal government should never have been silent in the face of States who were violating
    human rights. They could easily have found some 'leverage' to do so, much in the same way they
    are currently threatening to withdraw funds for wetlands over water buy backs.
•   Governments (both State and Federal) must always be required to release all of their working
    information from every meeting which is taken on the tax-payer's dime and especially so, under
    so called emergency conditions.
•   Governments must always act in accordance with their respective constitutions and make
    decisions in a way that complies with existing structures.
•   NO government in Australia (State or Federal) must ever be able to mandate medical procedures
    as this is a clear violation of human rights and individual bodily autonomy. When it comes to
    medicine, you must either get consent, or you just don't do it I No exceptions.

There are a great many more issues that need to be raised and dissected in detail and a lot of people
that need to be held to account. This cannot be whitewashed away.
I hope that a FULL Royal Commission can be convened to ensure that the same mistakes are never
made again.

Karen Quinn
