ABN 76 325 886 267
Level 24,580 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000                                        Ombudsman
T 02 9286 1000 Tollfree 1800 451524
www.ombo.nsw.gov.au                                                                            New South Wales



    18 January 2024



    Ms Robyn Kruk AO
    Panel Chair
    COVID-19 Response Inquiry




    Dear Ms Kruk

    NSW Ombudsman submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry

    I am writing to provide a very brief submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

    The NSW Ombudsman is an independent integrity body that pursues fairness for the people of NSW. In
    particular, we strive to ensure that those entrusted with state public power and resources fulfil their
    responsibilities and treat everyone fairly.

    My office does not oversight the actions of the Commonwealth government and I appreciate the Inquiry
    will not consider 'actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments'. However, I do note the
    Inquiry Terms of Reference cover the following among other matters:

        •             governance matters including the responsibilities of state governments

        •   key health response measures including vaccinations and quarantine facilities (aspects of the
            administration of which were the responsibility of the state government in NSW)

        •             mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations.

    Please find attached copies of two COVID-19 related reports tabled by my office in NSW Parliament.

        •             Attachment 1 - 2020 hindsight: the first 12 months of the COVID-19 pandemic - 22 March 2021

            In this report we considered the first 12 months of the pandemic, primarily through the lens of
            the complaints we received. The report looked at a range of issues including: different
            experiences of groups of people (eg inmates and detainees, residents of boarding houses, young
            people in out of home care); complaints about the NSW mandatory hotel quarantine system;
            and the challenges of oversight during COVID-19.

        •             Attachment 2 - The COVID-19 pandemic: second report - 7 September 2022

            In this report we considered complaints we received since our March 2021 report. The report
            showed that the number of COVID-related complaints to the Ombudsman rose significantly in
            the second year of the pandemic. The report looked at a range of issues in addition to those
            covered by the first report, including complaints about vaccines and complaints about education
            and student placements.

    Each of the above reports included a chronology of COVID-19 related legislative amendments and public
    health orders in NSW.
I am providing these reports as they may be of use to the Inquiry to the extent they consider matters
outlined above, in addition to any other matters the Independent Panel may find relevant.

Please contact Christie Allan, Executive Strategy Officer at                         if you require
further information about my office or this submission.

Yours sincerely




Paul Miller
NSW Ombudsman




                                                                                                      Page 2
