         Topher Field submission to the Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry


         Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission

                                                                                      Chris 'Topher' Field
                                                                                              11/12/2023




It is difficult to take seriously a Commonwealth Inquiry which, in the first instance excludes unilateral
actions by the States that constitute the Commonwealth, and has now allowed a submission period
of a paltry one week, without advanced notice, immediately prior to the Christmas New-Year period.

These circumstances collude to give the impression that the Commonwealth Government does not
take this inquiry, and especially public input into it, seriously.

I hope to be proven wrong and to see the concerns and issues raised in this and other submissions
be addressed so rigorously that I'm forced to recant my skepticism.

Preamble:

The 'Covid Era' which I define as March 2020 to the present, given that some vaccine mandates
remain in place, has been characterised by governments assuming enormous powers never given to
them by the people, making life-altering decisions for the entire population based on sparse
information, and the use of violence and coercion against those who questioned either the
legitimacy or efficacy of the measures taken.

Unless the governments and people of Australia learn critical lessons from this era, fast, then this era
will rightly be viewed as the moment when the idea that Australia is a 'free country based on the
rule of law with respect for human rights' is laid to rest for the last time.

I will raise issues with direct reference to the relevant terms of reference below:

    •     "Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,
          responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance
          mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
          and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
          bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

There are a plethora of unaddressed issues here including many which amount to a breakdown in
the rule of law and the widespread violation of human rights. Each of these needs to be soberly
examined, accountability ensured for those responsible, and lessons learned for the future.

To itemise only a few most obvious points:

    1.    The refusal to allow Australian citizens to return home at a time of crisis cuts at the very
          heart of what it means to be a citizen and represents a terrible breach of faith with the
          Australian public. It was also largely unnecessary save for perhaps an initial 2 week halt.
    2.    The J at ? a Cabi net combining the executive branches of State and Federal governments is
          a fiction, has no basis in the Constitution, and completely undermines the rule of law
          including our emergency laws which clearly lay out the decision making processes, and
          transparency measures, which are designed to protect the Australian people in moments
          exactly such as these.



                                                                                              1 | Page
     Topher Field submission to the Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry


3. The National Cabinet operating in secrecy and still not releasing minutes to this day (press
   releases aren't good enough) only serves to further dent public confidence both in the
   response, and in the prospect of meaningful accountability for mistakes, a crucial part of
   public trust.
4. The Prime Minister being permitted to give himself a plethora of Ministerial positions with
   no one, including the Governor General, apparently objecting at all, sets a dangerous
   precedent for the concentration of power into a single pair of hands, and makes a complete
   mockery of the Westminster system we apparently live under.
5. The Federal Government consenting by effective silence to the border closures and other
   inhumane non-medical interventions, up to and including standing by as children died from
   lack of basic medical care because of those closures, is a stain on our government and
   nation. Today the Federal Government threatens to pull funding for almost any reason, but
   no such leverage was applied on the issue of border closures, amounting to tacit approval.
6. The Federal Government consenting by silence, and arguably supporting in principle, State
   level mandates for an experimentally approved gene therapy, violates human rights,
   breeches the Nuremberg code, and represents the government assuming it has total power
   over every individual's body. The fact that the government did not recoil in horror at the very
   thought of mandated medical experimentation (by definition an emergency approved
   therapy is still experimental) speaks volumes and shows the importance of this Inquiry doing
   its job well.

•     Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
      and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
      quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

7.    The dismissal, deriding, and then bannin of known, cheap, effective treatments which were
      then, and are now, known without doubt to reduce Covid-19 hospitalisations and deaths
      when used early and in appropriate combinations, most notably Hydroxychloroquine and
      Ivermectin in their respective triple therapies, represents an inversion of the medical
      regulatory system, where that system was used to create worse health outcomes.
8.    Given the known efficacy of Hydroxychloroquine in reducing Covid 19 hospitalisations and
      death, the seizing and destroying of a large quantity of Hydroxychloroquine brought into the
      country privately by HBBBiand donated to the public makes the Federal Government
    directly responsible for at least some of the Covid 19 deaths that have occurred since.
9.  The fact that dismissing these known safe and effective treatments was a necessary pre­
    requisite to the emergency approval of the various novel Covid 19 MIRNA based therapies
    because of the requirement that “there is no adequate, approved, and available
    alternative to the product calls into question the purported professional
    independence of the regulatory bodies who dismissed the proven therapies.
10. AHPRA's threatening and harassing of doctors who dissented with the government's stated
    position on either Covid-19, known therapies such as HQC or Ivermectin, or novel unknown
    gene therapies such as the hastily developed and poorly performing MRNA therapies,
    represents the weaponizing of the medical regulatory system to achieve political outcomes.
11. The Federal Government's failure to ensure that the emergency-approved MRNA based
    therapies were assessed as the Genetically Modified Organisms that they are and complied
    with the relevant safety standards with regard to pollutant DNA is a failure of duty of care
    and has already led to lawsuits and may yet lead to considerable compensation payouts for
    those harmed by these unapproved GMOs.

                                                                                        2 | Page
        Topher Field submission to the Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry


    12. All of the above still says nothing about whether the emergency-approved MRNA therapies
        may be contributing to the current extraordinary excess mortality that is being observed in
        Australia, something that should be attracting considerable research to explain, but our
        government and health bureaucrats, so concerned with every single death during Covid,
        seem curiously in-curious about these tens of thousands of excess deaths so far, with more
        still accumulating monthly.

    •    Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
         populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status,
         geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and
         communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
         communities).

    13. By April 2020 it was known based on data from Italy, Sweden, and Israel, that Covid-19 was a
        high risk for the elderly and infirm, and as age dropped and health improved it became a
        negligible risk for the vast majority of the population. This was never taken into account in
        any of the non-medical interventions such as Federal and State border closures, lockdowns,
        business closures, and more. In future the risk profile of a given threat must be a central
        feature of the design of the response.
    14. Existing therapies that are known to be safe should never be banned to Australians even if
        their effectiveness is debatable. The banning of Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin was a
        violation of the rights of Australians to access medical care, a violation of the sanctity of the
        doctor-patient relationship, and given they are now known and accepted to be at least
        moderately effective, these bans certainly led to deaths.
    15. The Federal Government should never be silent in the face of States violating human rights.
        At present the Federal Government is threatening to withdraw funding for wetlands over
        water buy backs, so don't let them pretend they couldn't have found some 'leverage' to put
        an end to the inhumane actions of States that led to deaths from medical neglect of children,
        among many other devastating outcomes.
    16. Governments both State and Federal must always be required to release all the working
        information from every meeting which is taken on the taxpayers dime, especially in a time of
        emergency, when the people's trust is going to be under the most strain.
    17. Governments both State and Federal must act in accordance with their respective
        constitutions and make decisions in a way that complies with the existing structures,
        including the relevant check, balances, and transparency requirements. The 'National
        Cabinet' must be abandoned, and the minutes from all their past meetings released in full.
    18. No government in Australia, State or Federal, should ever be allowed to mandate medical
        procedures. This is a violation of human rights and individual bodily autonomy no matter
        what the particulars of the case. The believed safety, effectiveness, or necessity of the
        intervention is utterly irrelevant. When it comes to medicine, you get consent or you don't
        do it, and no exceptions should be allowed or accepted. The stakes are just too high, and the
        history of getting it wrong is just too terrible for us to even contemplate it.

There's a great many more issues that need to be raised and dissected in detail, and there's a lot of
people who need to be held personally accountable for their respective decisions and the resulting
deaths and violations of human rights. I hope this Inquiry is up to the task.

Topher Field.



                                                                                             3 | Page
