Many Australians including myself became stranded overseas due to the International
arrival caps imposed on returning citizens to Australia. There were no travel alerts or
advice in place when I left on the^^^^^^^^^|lt was upsetting to feel the resented
from other Australians due to the negative way international arrivals were being
portrayed by some politicians and the media. Australians stranded had not been
drinking cocktails on beaches we were people that have been working or attending to
our families, good people that didn’t deserve to be treated with such contempt.

My passport says I can pass freely without let or hindrance and it afford me every
assistance and protection I may need, yet arrival caps deliberately made this difficult.

The state leaders were given far too much power by the Federal government sadly
dividing Australians by their state; G2G passes for WA with people camping at borders,
Queensland hospitals for Queenslanders etc. Whilst the initial response ofclosing
borders and quarantine was imperative to stop the spread of the virus this continued
for two years even though there was new data on the virus as well as vaccines. Other
countries progressed Australia did not adapt at all just continued to follow China’s zero
Covid policy which also eventually failed. The world had a new endemic disease.

The airlines were offloading economy passengers in favour or business class tickets
and were holding people to ransom with prices. Citizens were forced to pay for their
own quarantining even though the Bio Security Act Section 108 clearly states it is a
Federal government responsibility. Unfairly the State and Federal government have
pushed many Australians into emotional and financial hardship. Then there are those
that still haven’t paid, whilst some of us were passed on to debt collectors and were
asset tested why..? Shouldn’t we all be treated the equally? Not penalised.

 Hotels used for quarantine were not fit for the purpose, no fresh air, poor hygiene, poor
food, lack of exercise and Vitamin D all which are imperative for one’s physical and
mental wellbeing. Celebrities, some not Australian, were able to quarantine at home and
sportspeople had access to outdoor spaces. Politicians should be ashamed of this
inequality; they wonder why the voting public don’t trust them anymore.

The repatriation flights were full the moment the emails were received, yet most Qantas
planes were mothballed whilst receiving a financial support package from the
government. I registered for repatriation and was not helped at all; there was no system
in place to progress, it became a lottery. Australians that had left after the pandemic
started or who had not lived in Australia for 10 years+ got flights before me.

I was astonished by Mark McGowan’s suggestion to use the detention centre on
Christmas Island, would he send his wife and daughter there!!! Australian citizens are
not illegal immigrants or criminals; thank God the Federal government had some sense
on that ugly proposal.




DD 9/12/2023                                                                         Page 1
I own a house my primary residence, my personal belongings, my car etc. were all in
WA all unattended and vulnerable for a year causing me a lot of anxiety and many
sleepless nights. The McGowan’s government was happy to continue to collect my
council rates, water rates, vehicle road license etc. all for services I was unable to use
whilst paying second living expenses trapped overseas through no fault of my own. If he
really cared about Western Australians, as he so often claimed, he could have use his
surplus budget to prioritise getting western Australians home or built an adequately
ventilated quarantine centre within reach of hospitals. Oh wait! He did...... after the
pandemic .never been used.

We are a country built on migration, living in a globalised world; the lack of compassion
for people who had family, sick and dying relatives and funerals across closed borders
was truly heart breaking, cruel and unnecessary. After finally returning to Australia my
mother in law became sick. We could not go through the mistreatment and expense of
flights and forced quarantine again. My husband had to say goodbye to his mother via
Videocall and watch her funeral online all whilst Scott Morrison had a beer and a BBQ in
Cornwall, UK at the G7 summit looking up the ancestors he’d never met, whilst
depriving others from seeing their families for two years.

I am confident no lessons will be learnt from the international arrival caps and feedback
from the 40.000+ Australians abandoned overseas and the 200,000+ that endured
quarantining begging for balconies and adequate ventilation.

Our Quarantine experience was far from the Gold standard the state leaders claimed.

It took 3 hrs to get us from Perth airport to the city which is 20 minutes away, the
flashing blue light police convoy was totally unnecessary, we are not criminals and after
PGR testing before boarding flights also not positive. There was no system of
prioritizing elderly or young children, no water available and no social distancing our
safety was of no importance at all. After a further 2 hours sat on a hot bus waiting to be
checked in I collapsed from dehydration. My husband had called for help and had asked
for water, the Police failed to help anyone their only response was to threaten to
handcuff anyone who they perceived as complaining. I was laying in the gutter in Perth
CBD being treated by the hotel medical team and was wheeled to my room on a porter’s
trolley, I was ashamed of my Country and those employed to protect us..!

Hotel rooms were not designed for two week stays or infectious disease control. They
did not have provision to store or prepare food so being told by staff that friends can
drop off care packs is pointless and even those were searched!

Washing up of plates and cutlery had to take place in the bathroom sink, where in our
case the sink was way to small and the toilet had no closing lid very impractical and
unhygienic. Our room consisted of a table with two hard chairs and a TV that could only
be viewed from sitting on the bed. I’m in my 50’s and my husband 60’s sitting on a bed
was not comfortable, manageable for a city break but not 2AI7 living for two weeks.

DD 9/12/2023                                                                        Page 2
Rooms were in an enclosed corridor with no ventilation so any airborne virus could be
transmitted within the hotels. Returning citizens were being called "travellers" and
blamed when someone got infected when it was the hotel system that was at fault.

As the hotels were used solely for quarantine there was no reason why an allocated
hour of outdoor time in a restricted supervised area such as a roof terrace was not
achievable. New Zealand managed they understood that the virus was not transmitted
outside providing social distance was maintained and that Vitamin D was vital for a
healthy immune system.

We eat a health balanced diet yet we had to put up with carbohydrates and sugary food
daily, pasta, rice and No fresh vegetables. The food arrived luke warm, whilst I barely
ate my husband did but at a cost of two lots of food poisoning and severe diarrhoea.
Being in an enclosed unventilated room, washing up in the bathroom with a husband
with diarrhoea was not pleasant or hygienic. We went in to quarantine healthy and
came out unwell; no one gave a damn about us, appalling treatment.

It was scary losing all of my Freedom and Human rights. Knowing that Murderers and
Rapist were getting fairer treatment was a bitter pill to swallow.

Then we had forced Vaccination in WA with Job losses and public segregation.
The vaccine did not prevent the individual from getting or transmitting the virus. An
unvaccinated person could NOT buy a coffee or go in shops but could walk through a
shopping centre to get their groceries. The senseless rules implemented by government
just did not add up. Yes I am vaccinated.

Our State leaders had more power than the PM of Australia! Both State and Federal
leaders had an inability to have a balanced debate and tell the truth even if it was
uncomfortable. This has led to government saddling the next two generations with
billions in debt not to mention what emotional damage has been done. Small businesses,
tourism, some individuals and our international reputation have all been damage. Trust
in our government, Police and our hospital systems are all in question.

The World Health Organisation statistics show that every country whether they lock
down, quarantined, closed borders or abandon their citizens have had the same
outcome. Less than 1% of each country’s population died of Covid, most of which were
elderly or had another health conditions.

Of course those lives were important and that is where the focus and protection should
have been, we had that information within the first year. Covid became about power,
political popularity and winning votes not the science or health advice which was so
often said but certainly not followed.

Has the response caused more damage than the disease? If politicians and those
conducting these inquiries can't be honest about what we got right and what we
got wrong we will just do it all again and will have learnt nothing.

DD 9/12/2023                                                                      Page 3
