Submission Covid-19 Inquiry:

As a retired pensioner, my experience of how the Australian government and health
authorities performed in response to the ‘covid-19 pandemic’ has left me in disbelief as to
the unscientific handling of affairs.

It’s incomprehensible if our authorities relied wholly on for-profit pharmaceutical companies
for ‘proof of claims with no other independent testing of imported product in situ here.

Following is a ‘List of Failures’ which need investigation so this never happens again:


    1. Informed Consent never happened, doctors and pharmacists were denied relevant
         product information by suppliers;
    2. Mandates from employers, who are not health experts, were followed by coercive
         threats and actions to terminate non-compliant workers;
    3.      Lack of intervention by governments to guide employers;
    4.      Misinformation from mainstream media (msm) incapable of finding objective science;
    5.      Lack of public consultation with independent medical Field Experts;
    6. Public Censorship by msm chanting a formula - ‘safe and effective’, even though the
         publically available trial data reads like a crime novel;
    7. Censorship of doctors and destruction of the doctor-patient relationship due to the
         virtual dictates of AHPRA’s letter 09 March 2021;
    8. Wilful ignorance of established science, eg mandating the use of masks, isolation of
         healthy individuals with no symptoms of illness, use of unreliable PCR tests, etc;
    9. Failure by the TGA: (a) to run physical tests on imported product, despite a team of
         Japanese doctors finding metallic substances in some batches (2021), (b) to retain a
         sample from each batch to be used in criminal evidence in the event of temporally-
         significant deaths, (c) to follow up on autopsy requests from members of bereaved
         families who believed their loved one was killed by injection, (d) to contact
         embalmers to investigate the finding of ‘never-seen-before clots’ during the
         embalming process - ‘clots’ described as ‘calamari-like rubbery fibrous structures’
         ‘synthetic and insoluble’ etc, (e) to fully inform the public as to the vast range of
         serious pathologies identified (eg Post-Authorisation Pfizer*), (f) to investigate the
         high percentage of failed pregnancies & infant deaths, (g ) to ensure the vaccine
         (GMO) product entering the market had been assessed by the Office of Gene
         Technology Regulator;
   10. ATAGI needs to be investigated to see if criminal charges are applicable in regard to
       their stated intention to ‘opportunistically ’ vaccinate sedated patients without their
       consent;
   11. The government should follow the lead of NZ Health DBA whistleblower,
                  and publish record-level data of ‘injection day vs day of death’ for each
       vaccine batch. This information can be anonymized and made available to the public
       for their peace of mind.

   That is but a few points of contention. I believe Australia has been a party to the biggest
   crime in history and there can be no rest until all of the failures are exposed so this kind
   of disaster never happens again.

Pfizer* - see 5.3.6 Cumulative Analysis of Post-Authorization Adverse Event to 28-Feb-2021
[Appendix 1, pages 30-38]




Thank you.
