Firstly I'd like to address the issue of timing. How dare the government
decide to sneakily and deliberately open this public enquiry 2 weeks
before Christmas and with only a week to submit. That in itself shows
how corrupted this system is. THIS needs to change also.

1. The response of government and media into the initial 'pandemic' was
not based on proper scientific evidence. It was propaganda to scare the
public into being in fear of 'covidl 9' that has not ever been isolated
anywhere on the planet.
This continued with daily updates on numbers of people contracting
covid, however not ONE person I know or spoke to over all my social
media contracted covid at this time.
The only time anyone I know contracted 'covidl 9' was AFTER they were
vaccinated with the mandated drug. Then, everyone I know who was
vaccinated contracted covidl 9..
There was only ONE narrative the government was listening to and
ignored all other doctors and specialists, and evidence presented, who
had legitimate evidence to the contrary of government 'health officers'.
This is NOT science, this was propaganda. Science debates, discusses
and is an ongoing learning of new information. Government did not once
change their stance, that is not science, that is dictatorship. Another
point to note is that once the majority of public were vaccinated, the
number of people dying increased by 20%, (see Senators Roberts and
Rennick for statistics), however there was no daily update by our
premiers advising us all of the spiralling death rate. Did they not care to
protect us all now?
2. The responsibility of government should include being open to
accepting new evidence and information, discussing that information
with relevant INDEPENDENT specialists and coming to a sensible, ie
COMMON SENSE approach to all aspects of said subject. Community
stakeholders should also be included in discussions.
3. National Cabinet which was formed pretty much at the same time as
the 'pandemic' unfolded, should NEVER withhold information from public
scrutiny. The public, being the people who supposedly vote in the
government to parliament, have every right to know what is being
discussed and the outcomes concluded in these 'meetings'. NEVER
should they be kept 'secret' from the public.
4. The harsh unnecessary mandates caused much trauma for many
many people, including myself and my family. After working through the
'worst' of the pandemic and not having any health issues, including
myself, staff or the^jchildren, we were then mandated to have an
experimental drug. I had to leave my position at a local kinder, not
because I didn't do an excellent job but because government said so. I
struggled with finding my own form of basic income for 8 months, not
enough to pay all the bills. I ended up with severe anxiety, but I still have
not contracted covid or died, so the scaremongering among government
and media outlets that covid will kill us and our loved ones if we did not
conform to the mandate was wrong, negligent, and dictatorial.
I would like a CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION as I don't think a Royal
Commission will be independent enough.
Either way, those who made the decisions which caused suicides, job
losses, loss of homes, loss of businesses and the elderly to be locked
away and die alone, need to be held accountable to the full extent of the
