Angela-Rose Mangano




14 December 2023

The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
Australian Government
Dept, of the Prime Minister and Cabinet

Re: Submission and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I am writing to request for an NCI (National Citizen Inquiry) combined with a Royal Commission to
look into how the Covid 19 Pandemic was dealt with along with the lack of evidence and clinical trials
for the vaccinations, along with mandates around masks, lockdowns etc. over the last 4 years. The
whole event has turned many peoples lives upside down, without thought or care.

My feeling is that the way the last 4 years have been dealt with was a complete crime against
humanity, with coercion, threats & discrimination against Australian citizens, and all citizens
globally. I have done the research and feel like we have all been had, lied to, misled and mistreated.

I am observing the after effects with family and friends becoming unwell and many dying
prematurely, suddenly and unexpectedly. Including                                           Along with
discrimination if not vaccinated to be employed. My own personal experience was that I chose to
wait to be vaccinated to do more research. I applied for a job with the Department of Justice in the
capacity as a Services Officer for the Coroner’s office in Brisbane. I had applied for the job more
than once and after 15 months was offered the job. I sat an interview, along with having a criminal
check. I was offered the job and given a day to start. Alas, at the 11th hour, I was phoned and asked
for a vaccination certificate. (Note this was not a requirement in the advertisement and not mentioned
in the face-to-face interview). I explained that I did not have a certificate due
having severe vaccine adverse reactions resulting in injuries including life threatening diseases.
^^^^^^^^Mwith a lung collapse and heart attack after third vaccination, rehabilitation was
necessary and inability to work, followed by relationship breakdown and attempted suicide,
admittance to a mental health facility and a complete _                         (to the point where I do
not recognise              in his behaviour and actions).                       after third vaccination
(recommended by h             specialist - after
                                                                           to “the experts” and “followed
the science.,” which to me has been all a sham. I expressed my concern to all family members on
waiting and seeing how the vaccine may affect people, however they wished to do the right thing
trusting their government and medical professionals. I however had many questions that did not get
answered nor investigated when I did ask questions. Now especially that^^^^| has been
diagnosed

                                                                              quality of life for^^|
                             has been affected, and the ripple effect^^^^^^^^^^^^. For me.
regardless that I                                 and I requested to speak to human resources at my new
place of work, I was told no I could not discuss further and that this was part of employment
requirements and had come in March of 2022 and that it would not be possible to speak to anyone
further about it. I asked if I could apply for a medical exemption due to sick^^^^^^^^^|from
vaccine injuries. I was also told no and was told that I would not be allowed to work without a vaccine
certificate. I suggested that this was discriminatory and why was I not being given a choice to have
the vaccine, when mandates were not legal, and Prime Minister Scott Morrison had said that vaccines
were not mandatory however Queensland Health were saying yes, they were mandatory to include
Government Departments. I asked why would I need a vaccine certificate to work in the same
building, as a criminal attending a hearing i.e. that they would be allowed to attend whether
vaccinated or not. I suggested that the justification of it being “protocol” made no sense and that I felt
I was being discriminated against unjustly. Already finding it difficult to work as a single mother, this
has been another hurdle in which I have been overlooked for not just this job however for many due to
choosing not to have the vaccine for my own safety. To the point of reaching a point of deciding on
whether to choose bankruptcy due to being unable to secure work, out of pure discrimination. I have
suffered financially, and my confidence and mental health affected by having so many knock backs
for work due to discrimination when I knew in every cell of my being not to have the vaccination and
I had proof through research, peer reviewed documents and                     (whom I fear will have
their lives shortened due to this God forsaken vaccine, that should never have been called a vaccine).

I am a counsellor and I have worked voluntarily in this field, along with being a pastoral carer with
palliative care patients. I applied for jobs with Funeral Directors along with Case Management roles
with the Salvation Army and similar organisations. It has been stressful not to be able to secure work
and unable to pay rent and bills. I eventually found a solution via consolidating debt however I have
been disadvantaged unfairly as have many people I know.

Discrimination did not stop just with work, it includes going to restaurants, cafes, church, and
volunteering atschool. I was unable to volunteer due to not being vaccinated, however
            I whom has chosen to be                                 .... Sure! Welcome, come on in.


                                        ■The world has gone upside down on its head with the
ridiculousness of the rules and regu lations and outri ght bullying to be vaccinated. To date I have not
had Covid. However, every person I know whom have followed vaccination protocol, have been
extremely ill with the flu (Covid), however alarmingly many ended up in emergency with heart and
lung problems, blood clots, strokes, and death due to sudden pneumonia and some not of a significant
age. “Just Died Suddenly.” No one knows why, no explanation, just dropped dead for no good reason
.... Erm MRNA vaccinations anyone?

I am a member and attended a recent seminar with AMPS (Australian Medical Professionals), whom
have set out to do the research on excess deaths in Australia after the vaccine roll out. I attach a copy
of the literature for your own resources to look at and consider why and how things were done the
way they were. And why and investigation into excess mortality from vaccines along with a Royal
Commission should be had.

https://amps.redunion.com.au/too-many-dead

Besides the whole event being fear mongering, threatening, coercive and down right non-democratic,
lack of freedom of speech, lack of free will and personal choice and not to mention just not the
Australian way. It seems to have been a very lucrative venture financially for a small hand full
especially those in the medical and political field, whom I believe should be tried, asked to explain
and jailed accordingly upon the findings.

I am writing to express my dismay in the system, and I wish for changes to be made to aim to improve
Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics with greater transparency, communication and truth
including full clinical trials of any vaccinations to be utilised on the public, and to withdraw any
vaccinations with MRNA content causing disastrous affects and should not be called a vaccination,
however more so a bioweapon. A bioweapon encouraged by our own creating mass suffering, death,
grief and loss. I am truly lost for words and am left completely disillusioned with the whole system of
government and medical practises.

Yours sincerely
From a very concerned Australian citizen




Angela-Rose Mangano
