Submissions to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Emeritus Professor                                   15 December 2023

I wish to have my following views considered by the Inquiry:

   1. The investigation into the COVID response should be a Royal
      Commission. I do not believe the current approach and terms of reference
      will sufficiently investigate the propaganda, censorship, loss of civil
      liberties, fear and miss-information promoted and undertaken by
      Australian governments since 2020 to the present day. The current
      limited investigation will reduce trust and faith in our governments and
      elected officials.
   2. The investigation should have included the roles of the states and
      territories in their COVID responses.
   3. The investigation must include all the mechanisms as to how the same
      COVID mantra and narrative was rolled out internationally across all
      countries at the same time.
   4.    The following actions must be undertaken by the investigation:
          a. The impact of the fear campaign by Australian governments and
             mainstream media needs to be fully investigated. How this resulted
              in families, friends and communities being torn apart. The
             psychological impact will reverberate for decades if not
              generations.
          b. The effect of the vaccinations on the fertility of women but also
             males is critical in the investigation.
          c. A thorough investigation of all side effects of the COVID
             vaccinations needs to be undertaken.
          d. The government contracts with the manufacturers of the CO VID
             vaccines needs to be made public and particularly the lack of
              access to the content of the vaccines and the lack of accountability.
          e. The lack of independence of the Therapeutic Goods Administration
              (TGA) and the funding provided by pharmaceutical companies that
             I understand is over 90%. The TGA must be totally independent of
              “big pharma”.
          f. The excess deaths in Australia over the last few years must be
              carefully analysed and evaluated. The book by the Australian
             Medical Professional Society (AMPS) titled “Too many dead”
             must be carefully evaluated.
          g. All presentations in The Australian Parliament recorded by
             HANSARD by senators about the mandates, lockdowns,
             vaccinations, deaths and side effects from the COVID response
             must be fully investigated.
li. The censorship by the Australian Government, mainstream media
    and social media on open discussion and debate about the COVID
    response needs to be investigated.
i. The censorship and government control of medical practitioners
    and particularly General Practitioners on their freedom to the
    practice medicine in an ethical manner and “do no harm” during
    COVID must be investigated.
j. The Government mantra that the COVID vaccinations were “safe
    and effective” needs careful investigation, particularly that it is
    now acknowledged to be medically wrong and in fact is a lie.
k. The lack of use of repurposed drugs, vitamins and supplements to
    treat COVID must be investigated particularly that their use by
    governments around the world, leading medical researchers,
    doctors and specialists globally was heavily promoted to treat
    CO VID, but was totally rejected by Australian governments, is
    criminal and tragic. This must be investigated. Particularly the use
    of Ivermectin, Zinc, Vitamins C and D were never endorsed by the
    medical establishment with claims by leading medical
    professionals that this caused millions of deaths globally.
1. All the books written on the COVID response in Australia and
    internationally must be reviewed. Books such as “The war on
    Ivermectin” by Pierre Cory and the Australian book titled
    “Australia Breaks Apart” by John Stapleton are particularly
    important.
m. Investigations by other countries into the COVID response
    particularly in the USA, the UK and many other countries need to
    be evaluated.
