J


                    Australian Securities &
                    Investments Commission




    Commonwealth Government
    COVID-19 Response Inquiry
    Submission by the Australian
    Securities and Investments
    Commission

    December 2023
                                                                    Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                          Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




Contents
                            Executive summary..................................................................................3
                            A     ASIC’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic................................ 5
                                  Our work to maintain confidence in the financial system.................. 6
                                  Our work to assist consumers........................................................... 9
                                  Our work to assist business..............................................................11
                                  Our collaborative approach with Government and regulators........ 14
                            B      Lessons learned.............................................................................15
                            Appendix A.............................................................................................. 18
                            Appendix B..............................................................................................21
                            Key terms................................................................................................23




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                                      Page 2
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




Executive summary


              1                   ASIC welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the
                            Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (Inquiry).

              2                    ASIC is Australia's integrated corporate, markets, financial services, and
                            consumer credit regulator. ASIC’s role is to:
                            (a) maintain, facilitate and improve the performance of, and promote
                                confident and informed participation in, Australia’s financial system;
                            (b) efficiently and effectively administer, and take whatever action is
                                necessary to enforce and give effect to, the laws of the Commonwealth
                                that confer on ASIC functions and powers; and
                            (c) receive, process and store information efficiently and quickly and
                                ensure that information is available to the public as soon as practicable.

              3                   ASIC’s submission focuses on our regulatory experience of the impact of the
                            COVID-19 pandemic (pandemic) and the actions we took to:
                            (a) keep the financial system operating efficiently and effectively;
                            (b) support Australia’s financial services industry and our regulated
                                population; and
                            (c) protect consumers.

              4                      ASIC’s submission also outlines our key learnings from the pandemic. We
                            hope these learnings will assist the Inquiry.

              5                      From the outset of the pandemic, ASIC was keenly aware of the very real
                            risks and extraordinary demands the pandemic was placing on our markets,
                            regulated populations and consumers. From March 2020, we focused on:

                                 •    making sure that financial markets remained open and operated well
                                     in a challenging environment, including through issuing directions to
                                     large market participants to limit the number of daily trades when
                                     trading volumes were putting undue strain on market infrastructure;

                                 •    overseeing that liquidity risks were being managed by fund
                                     managers, through our proactive monitoring of liquidity risk
                                     responses and the levels of redemptions requested by members;

                                 •    supporting consumers suffering financial hardship, including
                                     granting relief to enable members to redeem from a registered
                                     scheme on hardship grounds and monitoring deferred loan
                                     repayment arrangements provided by financial institutions;




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                Page 3
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                                 •   ensuring businesses remained resilient, for example, we granted
                                     fundraising relief that assisted listed companies to raise over $41
                                     billion in secondary raisings;

                                 •   providing updated messages on our Moneysmart website on
                                     common pandemic issues faced by consumers, such as guidance on
                                     the implications of, and alternatives to, accessing the COVID-19
                                     early release scheme (with our content viewed by over one million
                                     consumers a month); and

                                 •   safeguarding consumers from opportunistic scams and misconduct,
                                     for example, banning a Gold Coast director from providing financial
                                     services and engaging in credit activity for eight years for promoting
                                     illegal access to the COVID-19 early release scheme.

              6             Notwithstanding prolonged lockdowns, based on our monitoring work we
                            found that the Australian financial services sector weathered the pandemic
                            well. Our markets remained stable. Banks, fund managers and
                            superannuation trustees did not experience liquidity issues. Consumer
                            confidence remained high. Borrowers continued to make loan repayments
                            following permitted deferral periods by lenders and company insolvencies
                            decreased. Government measures to financially assist businesses and
                            consumers contributed to this resilience.




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                Page 4
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




A         ASIC’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic



                             We quickly adjusted our regulatory priorities in response to the pandemic
                             and redeployed our staff to address areas of immediate concern.

                             We focused on maintaining community confidence in the financial system,
                             helping vulnerable consumers and assisting businesses to remain resilient.

                             We worked closely with Government on pandemic measures and
                             coordinated our regulatory response with our domestic and overseas
                             counterparts.


              7             At the time the pandemic was declared as a national public health emergency
                            on 16 March 2020, our regulated population included approximately 23,260
                            unlisted public companies, 2,085 listed companies, 437 responsible entities
                            operating 3,712 registered schemes, 147 ADIs, 5,188 authorised credit
                            licensees, 114 superannuation trustees, 26,793 financial advisers, 28
                            domestic and overseas financial markets, 82 general insurers and 29 life
                            insurers.

              8             As announced by ASIC in March 2020, we took urgent steps to redesign our
                            strategic priorities to respond to the changing environment during the
                            pandemic and to mitigate the impact on our regulated population and the
                            financial system: see Media Release (20-070MR) ASIC recalibrates its
                            regulatory priorities to focus on COVID-19 challenges (23 March 2020).
                            Our priorities became:
                            (a) protecting consumers from harm at a time of heightened vulnerability;
                            (b) maintaining financial system resilience and integrity;
                            (c) supporting Australian businesses to respond to the effects of the
                                pandemic;
                            (d) continuing to identify, disrupt and deter the most harmful conduct,
                                including through enforcement action; and
                            (e) continuing to build our organisational capability in challenging times.

              9             These priorities addressed issues such as the challenges to market conditions,
                            vulnerability of consumers to unscrupulous conduct and pressures faced by
                            business, as we saw these to be some of the greatest threats and harms
                            arising from the pandemic.

              10            We held daily Commission Co-ordination Group meetings to monitor the
                            impact of the pandemic. We also discussed emerging issues with
                            Government and our co-regulators and ensured that we were taking a
                            consistent approach. This included attendance at meetings with the Council



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                Page 5
                                                                Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                      Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                             of Financial Regulators at a deputy-head level at least weekly to share
                             information, intelligence and responses.

               11            We redeployed significant organisational resources to focus on our pandemic
                             priorities and an overview of our core work is outlined below. Importantly,
                             the key functions of our normal day to day operations, including registry
                             operations and services, breach and misconduct reports, and contact points
                             for industry, remained available throughout the pandemic.



Our work to maintain confidence in the financial system
               12            The pandemic, and shut-down measures to contain it, caused a sudden and
                             severe global economic shock. This resulted in a number of heightened risks
                             to the financial system which we worked to stabilise.

                             Intervention to assist the resilience of financial markets

               13            We worked closely with exchanges to make sure that financial markets
                             operated effectively and remained open. When trading initially spiked in
                             response to the pandemic, we took urgent action to issue interim directions
                             to large equity market participants to limit the number of trades they
                             executed each day: see Media Release (20-062MR) ASIC takes steps to
                             ensure equity market resiliency (16 March 2020). This avoided trading
                             volumes putting a strain on the processing and risk management capabilities
                             of market infrastructure and market participants, while still facilitating trades
                             by retail clients.

               14            We provided early guidance to assist market intermediaries to adjust quickly
                             to alternative working arrangements whilst maintaining robust monitoring
                             and supervision controls, including setting out our expectations as to the
                             supervision of staff working remotely. We also regularly engaged with
                             market intermediaries, such as investment banks, securities dealers and
                             issuers of OTC derivatives, to understand and assess the ongoing impact of
                             the pandemic and the effectiveness of their business continuity and
                             supervision arrangements.1


                              Early and ongoing engagement with stakeholders on
                              liquidity and obligations to consumers

               15            We identified our stakeholder population that would be most vulnerable to
                             liquidity issues and/or dealing with consumers facing financial hardship in
                             response to the pandemic and took proactive steps to liaise with them to
                             message our expectations.



1 See: Market Integrity Update - COVID-19 Special Issue - 31 March 2020 on the ASIC website.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                   Page 6
                                                                  Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                        Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                               Engagement with responsible entities

               16             Given the approximate $1.5 trillion in funds under management, we
                              reminded responsible entities of registered managed investment schemes of
                              their obligation to manage scheme liquidity and requested that they notify us
                              if a scheme became non-liquid or if redemptions were suspended: see ASIC
                              letter to responsible entities of registered schemes in the current COVID-19
                                   ronm     (8 April 2020).

               17             We also undertook a targeted review of the impact of the pandemic on
                              scheme liquidity and asset values. Our review found that the selected
                              schemes did not face serious investor liquidity challenges and that the
                              responsible entities were responsive to valuation risks.

                               Engagement with superannuation trustees

               18             With increased demand for access to superannuation funds supported by
                              Government reforms to introduce the COVID-19 early release scheme, we
                              worked jointly with APRA to remind trustees of the need to act in
                              accordance with their best interests duty and to monitor fund liquidity and
                              trustee communications: see ASIC and APRA letter to superannuation
                              trustees on impact of COVID-19 (1 April 2020). Our work included
                              reviewing the websites of 50 trustees and seeking amendments to
                              communications as appropriate (see paragraph 29(a) below).

                               Engagement with lenders

               19             As lenders reacted quickly to the pandemic, deferring repayments on more
                              than 500,000 home loans, we worked jointly with APRA to provide clarity
                              on issues of hardship and responsible lending: see, for e.g., ASIC responds to
                              lenders ’ request for clarification on lending during the COVID-19pandemic
                              (29 April 2020). We regularly met with lenders and consumer advocates to
                              understand key issues and continued to monitor lenders responses to
                              borrowers facing repayment difficulties and the status of temporary loan
                              deferrals offered to borrowers.

               20             Our ongoing oversight focused on ensuring that lenders offered borrowers
                              assistance that genuinely met their needs and that borrowers were contacted
                              in advance of any loan deferral expiring to outline available options. The
                              vast majority of borrowers that exited a temporary deferral continued to
                              make repayments and loans returned to a performing status.2

                               Engagement with insurers

               21             We set out our expectations for general and life insurers to handle claims
                              with utmost good faith and to deal with complaints genuinely, promptly,


2 See: APRA’s loan repayment deferral data: Sliming a light on credit risk on the APRA website.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                     Page 7
                                                                 Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                       Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                              fairly and consistently. We also monitored insurers responses to consumers
                              facing financial hardship. Where consumers were no longer able to pay
                              premiums in full due to reduced income, we prompted insurers to implement
                              measures to assist customers to maintain coverage: see ASIC sets
                              expectations of life and general insurers following a review of insurers ’
                              responses to consumers experiencing financial hardship during the CO VID-
                              19 pandemic (22 April 2021).


                              Assistance to listed companies

               22             We recognised that listed companies may need to raise funds urgently to
                              address the impact of the pandemic. To assist fundraising, we granted relief
                              to enable listed companies to make Tow doc’ offers (including rights offers,
                              placements and share purchase plans), even if they did not meet all the usual
                              eligibility requirements: see Media Release (20-075MR) Facilitating capital
                              raisings during CO VID-19 period (31 March 2020). As a result, over $41
                              billion was generated from secondary raisings by 240 listed companies in
                              the period from March to October 2020.3


                               Monitoring solvency issues

               23             We actively monitored companies facing solvency issues due to the
                              pandemic and provided guidance to companies on the process for closing,
                              winding-up or restructuring a company: see COVID-19: closing a company
                              and where to get help (22 June 2020). We also published weekly updates on
                              insolvency statistics to provide transparency on pandemic developments.4

               24             We observed that the total number of companies entering an external
                              administration or controller appointment for the first time was 7,362 for the
                              year ended 30 June 2020 and this dropped to 4,235 for the year ended 30
                              June 2021,5 This coincided with support measures introduced by
                              Government, such as a temporary insolvent trading moratorium,6 as well as
                              other support measures provided by financial institutions.

               25             Further details of the work we undertook are set out in Annexure A.




3 See: Senate Economics References Committee Treasury Laws Amendment (2021 Measures No. 1) Bill 2021: Submission by
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, June 2021, p 23.
4 See: Insolvency statistics (up to 31 July 2022) on the ASIC website.
5 See: Insolvency statistics - Series 1 Companies enterins external administration and controller appointments on the ASIC
website.
6 See: Treasury, Providing temporary relief for financially distressed businesses [fact sheet].



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                      Page 8
                                                                Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                      Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




Our work to assist consumers
               26             Issues faced by consumers during the pandemic included the need for
                              information on how to navigate decisions regarding their finances, such as
                              whether to access their investment or superannuation, and what resources
                              were available if they were facing financial hardship. In the low interest rate
                              environment, consumers were also more vulnerable to scams or riskier
                              investments promoting high returns.


                              Messages and resources

               27             We focused on improving consumers’ financial skills, knowledge and
                              efficacy and providing them with information and tools to help them make
                              informed financial decisions during the pandemic. For example, we:
                              (a)   Issued media alerts warning consumers to be alert to scammers taking
                                    advantage of the pandemic environment. For instance, we warned
                                    consumers not to transfer money to a suspicious investment opportunity
                                    from Cash FX Group (which was not licensed to provide financial
                                    services in Australia) that advertised investors could earn over 20% per
                                    month and was accepting payment via crypto assets: see
                                    Suspicious investment ‘opportunity ’from ‘Cash FX Group ’ | ASIC (6
                                    October 2021). We directed consumers to tools to help them stay safe
                                    online and protect themselves from misinformation: see, for e.g.,
                                    Scammers talking advantage of COVID-19 to target small business (26
                                    May 2021).
                              <b)   Continually updated our Moneysmart website to reflect the common
                                    financial decisions many consumers were navigating. This included
                                    guidance on the COVID-19 early release scheme with messages for
                                    consumers to consider alternatives, such as Government financial
                                    assistance that may be available, and to take into account the long-term
                                    financial impacts of accessing superannuation early: see Information for
                                    consumers during COVID-19 (11 September 2020).7 Over one million
                                    consumers visited ASIC’s Moneysmart website each month during the
                                    pandemic.8
                              (c)   Established an expert group on the financial wellbeing of young people
                                    to identify and explore key issues affecting the financial lives of young
                                    Australians: see Young people and money on the Moneysmart website.9
                              (d) Ran targeted communications through our Moneysmart social media.
                                  For instance, throughout September 2020, given the high levels of



7 Once the COVID-19 early release scheme ceased, ASIC’s guidance on the scheme was archived from the Moneysmart
website.
8 See: ASIC Corporate Plan 2020-24: Focus 2020-21, p 2.
9 A summary of the ideas and themes arising from the work of ASIC’s Expert Group on the financial wellbeing of young
people is set out in its report, Young people and money (December 2021).



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                    Page 9
                                                              Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                    Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                                   temporary consumer loan deferrals, we reminded consumers to engage
                                   with lenders in relation to their repayment obligations and financial
                                   circumstances.10


                             Refocused supervisory work

              28            We changed our supervisory approach to focus on new areas of risk to
                            consumers and conducted targeted surveillance activities.

              29            We completed over 1,250 surveillances in the year ended 30 June 2020 and
                            over 1,080 surveillances in the year ended 30 June 2021.11 Examples of the
                            surveillance work we undertook to protect consumers included:
                             (a)   Reviewing superannuation trustee websites to ensure that trustees acted
                                   promptly to improve communications to members. The review covered
                                   50 trustees that were collectively responsible for approximately 94% of
                                   the $1.87 trillion in APRA-regulated superannuation industry assets
                                   under management at that time. All the problematic communications we
                                   identified were removed or amended quickly: see Review of how
                                   superannuation trustees supported their members during COVID-19
                                   (22 March 2021).
                             (b) Monitoring buy now pay later products and the response by the sector
                                 to the pandemic. The use of buy now pay later by consumers increased
                                 by approximately 43% by number and value of transactions when
                                 comparing June 2019 and June 2020.12 Our work included engaging
                                 with consumer representatives on the use of alternative credit products,
                                 especially by vulnerable consumers.
                             (c)   Responding to reports of investment scams. Reports of misconduct
                                   received by ASIC from March to May 2020 increased by 20%
                                   compared to the same period in 2019 and this grew to over 200% in
                                   early 2021 compared with the same time the previous year: see Media
                                   Release (20-147MR) Rise in investment scams during COVID-19
                                   pandemic (24 June 2020) and ^7 ci I see            2021:
                                   reporting up more than 200% (12 March 2021).


                            Targeted enforcement work

              30            We shifted our enforcement priorities to protect consumers from misconduct
                            arising from behaviour seeking to exploit the pandemic environment and
                            opportunistic conduct such as scams, unlicensed conduct, and misleading
                            and deceptive advertising.13



10 See: ASiC’s Annual Report 2020-21, p 75.
11 See: ASIC’s Annual Report 2020-21, p 31.
12 See: Report 672 Buy now pay later: An industry update (REP 672), p 11.
13 See: Report 666 ASIC Enforcement Update: Jammy to June 2020, (REP 666), P 5.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                Page 1
                                                              Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                    Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




              31             We commenced 134 investigations, 41 new criminal litigations and 50 new
                             civil litigations in the year ended 30 June 2020 and 110 investigations, 53
                             new criminal litigations and 83 new civil litigations in the year ended 30
                             June 2021.14

              32             Examples of the enforcement work we undertook to protect consumers
                             included:
                             (a)   an investigation leading to the arrest of a man who operated an alleged
                                   scam and raised at least $370,000 from unsuspecting victims who
                                   believed they were investing in legitimate investment companies: see
                                   Media Release (20-422MR) Man arrestedfollowing suspectedfinancial
                                   investment scam (15 October 2020);
                             (b) commencing civil proceedings against Membo Finance Pty Ltd and its
                                 credit representative for failure to act efficiently, honestly and fairly
                                 when dealing with debtors in financial hardship: see Media Release (23-
                                 037MR) ClearLoans penalised $6 million forfinancial hardship
                                 misconduct and other Credit Act breaches during CO VID-19 (23
                                 February 2023); and
                             (c)   banning a Gold Coast director from providing financial services and
                                   engaging in credit activity for eight years for promoting illegal access to
                                   the COVID-19 early release scheme: see Media Release (23-099MR)
                                   ASIC bans Gold Coast directorfor eight years for promoting illegal
                                   early release ofsuper (17 April 2023).



Our work to assist business
              33             Industry faced significant uncertainty on how to comply with compliance
                             obligations in a disrupted pandemic environment. We received feedback
                             from industry that certain regulatory obligations were unduly burdensome to
                             comply with or strict compliance would be practically difficult in the
                             circumstances.


                             Granting relief and no-action positions to assist industry to
                             comply and meet the needs of clients

              34             Throughout the pandemic, we used our discretionary powers to issue
                             targeted relief and no-action positions to industry to remove the impact of
                             certain compliance obligations that were onerous or created barriers for
                             industry to respond to the needs of their clients. For instance, during the
                             initial period of April 2020 to October 2020, we dedicated resources to




14 See: ASIC’s Annual Report 2020-21, p 32.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                Page 11
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                            urgently issue nine legislative instruments and granted various individual
                            relief instruments.

              35            Examples of our work include:

                            Relief and no-action position to assist companies to meet their obligations -
                            We granted relief for listed and unlisted companies to have an additional
                            month to lodge audited financial reports and adopted a ‘no action’ position
                            for public companies to have an additional two months to hold their AGMs.
                            This recognised that companies and auditors were focused on responding to
                            the pandemic and required additional time to comply: see Media Release
                            (21-061MR) ASIC adopts ‘no-action ’position and re-issues guidelines for
                            virtual meetings (29 March 2021).

                            Relief to assist consumers to access theirfunds - We granted relief to make
                            it easier for lenders to issue debit cards to existing customers. This
                            responded to the difficulties that consumers faced in accessing cash and
                            approaching institutions during the pandemic and the need for online
                            purchasing: see ASIC Corporations (COVID-19 - Distribution ofDebit
                            Cards) Instrument 2020/401. We also granted relief for operators of
                            registered managed investment schemes that had become frozen (i.e., that
                            had suspended promoted redemptions) to permit members to exit the scheme
                            on hardship grounds, such as where members needed to access their money
                            for living or medical expenses: see ASIC Corporations (Hardship
                            Withdrawals Relief) Instrument 2020/778.

                            Relief and no-action position to assist access to financial advice - We
                            granted relief in respect of the COVID-19 early access scheme to allow
                            advisers not to give a statement of advice to clients (using instead a simpler
                            record of advice) and to permit registered tax agents to give advice to
                            existing clients. We also adopted a ‘no action’ position for superannuation
                            trustees to provide intra-fund advice on the COVID-19 early access scheme.
                            This assisted the provision of affordable and timely advice to clients on
                            accessing superannuation: see Media Release (20-085MR) ASIC grants
                            relief to industry to provide affordable and timely financial advice during the
                            CO VID-19 pandemic (14 April 2020).

              36            Further details of the relief and no-action positions we issued are set out in
                            Annexure B.


                            Release of guidance

              37            We released sector-specific guidance to assist industry to understand their
                            compliance obligations and to direct them to resources to respond to the
                            issues they were facing during the pandemic, including:
                            (a)   ongoing guidance on the appropriate approach to calling and holding
                                  company meetings using virtual technology, in order to assist



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 12
                                                                 Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                       Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                                    companies to comply with their obligations under temporary pandemic
                                    measures and to promote continued investor engagement in meetings:
                                    see ASIC guidelines for investor meetings using virtual technology (18
                                    August 2021);
                              (b) lists of frequently asked questions (FAQs) for stakeholders, including
                                  financial advisers, companies, directors and auditors (with respect to
                                  financial reporting and audit), superannuation trustees and responsible
                                  entities: see Information Sheet 262 FAQs: COVID-19 information for
                                  advice licensees andfinancial advisers (INFO 262),       -19
                                  implications for financial reporting and audit: Frequently asked
                                  questions (FAQs) and COVID-19 - Information for superannuation
                                  trustees on the ASIC website, and Operating a managed investment
                                  scheme during COVID-19 fl July 2020).15 These FAQs provided
                                  guidance on ASIC’s areas of focus, ASIC’s expectations when dealing
                                  with the impacts of the pandemic and practical tips to help stakeholders
                                  overcome challenges caused by the pandemic;
                              (c)   guidance to help small business operators to make financial decisions to
                                    protect their business and to understand available resources, including
                                    the insolvency reforms introduced by the Government and loan
                                    repayment relief offered by lenders: see Information for small business
                                    during COVID-19 (2 June 2020); and
                              (d) the release of Information Sheet 245 Board oversight and discretion in
                                  executive variable pay schemes (INFO 245) to assist boards and
                                  remuneration committees of listed entities to make decisions on
                                  executive pay in the challenging context of the pandemic: see Media
                                  Release (20-133MR) Info sheet 245: Board oversight and discretion in
                                  executive variable pay schemes (12 June 2020).


                              Postponement of non-essential work

               38             To enable industry to focus on immediate priorities and the needs of
                              consumers during the pandemic, we postponed the commencement of certain
                              work that would have imposed a significant regulatory burden and was not
                              time critical. This included:
                              (a)   taking a facilitative approach to compliance with ASIC policy guidance
                                    in respect of various legislative reforms arising out of recommendations
                                    from the Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking,
                                    Superannuation and Financial Services Industry, including new design
                                    and distribution obligations and breach reporting obligations; and
                              (b) deferring areas of supervisory work requiring the collection of data, to
                                  reduce the reporting obligations on industry, including the recurrent



15 The FAQs for responsible entities have been archived from the ASIC website.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                   Page 13
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                                 managed funds data collection pilot, our work on grandfathered
                                 conflicted remuneration and our review of life insurance advice.



Our collaborative approach with Government and regulators
              39            Our work in response to the pandemic was influenced and supported by the
                            work of Government and our engagement with local and overseas regulators.

              40            We worked closely with Government on temporary measures aimed at
                            supporting businesses and consumers, such as the Corporations
                            (Coronavirus Economic Response) Determination (No. 1) 2020, which
                            facilitated the use of virtual technology to hold company meetings and
                            electronic execution of company documents.

              41            We coordinated our domestic pandemic responses with the Council of
                            Financial Regulators Crisis Management Working Group, ensuring that each
                            regulator took a consistent approach. We also regularly liaised with local
                            regulators during the pandemic. For example, we worked closely with
                            APRA to assess the short and long term impacts of the pandemic on our
                            jointly regulated industry sectors and co-ordinated our supervisory work to
                            reduce the burden on industry (see paragraphs 18 and 19 above).

              42            On the global front, we participated in joint initiatives and sharing
                            information on market developments, regulatory approaches and consumer
                            protection measures, including:
                            •    engagement with international standard-setting bodies, including
                                 IOSCO, the IAIS, the IFIAR, the OECD and the Financial Stability
                                 Board and counterpart overseas agencies in a coordinated approach to
                                 international issues related to consumer protection, market integrity and
                                 financial stability;
                            •    working with IOSCO’s Asia-Pacific Regional Committee to bring
                                 emerging concerns to the regional level; and
                            •    co-leading the newly established IOSCO Retail Market Conduct Task
                                 Force examining measures to address misconduct, as well as retail
                                 investor and consumer protection issues.




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 14
                                                                  Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                        Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




           Lessons learned



                                Our work and engagement during the pandemic reinforced:

                                •    the importance of being flexible and refocussing our priorities as
                                     needed;

                                •    the benefits of a collaborative and consistent response to domestic and
                                     global issues;

                                •    the resilience of our regulated population to changes in market
                                     conditions;

                                •    the significance of technologically neutral compliance obligations in the
                                     present climate.

                                We consider that additional data gathering powers and digital reporting
                                would enable us to better monitor and respond to potential significant
                                market disruption in the future.

               43             As an organisation, we reassessed our planned priorities and redeployed
                              resources to address the greatest threats and harms arising from the
                              pandemic environment, while still providing business and consumers access
                              to our critical functions. Our workload significantly increased, given the
                              heightened risk of significant consumer harm, and challenges in ensuring
                              market integrity and the continued viability of companies and the economy.
                              Ensuring that we remain agile and flexible as an organisation will safeguard
                              our ability to respond effectively to future shocks.

               44             We observed that the tools we implemented to respond to the pandemic were
                              effective in maintaining financial stability and confidence in the financial
                              system. We worked with exchanges and market participants to ensure that
                              financial markets remained open and effective. We assisted industry through
                              targeted relief and guidance. We protected consumers with messages,
                              warnings and our supervisory and enforcement outcomes. Significantly, our
                              pandemic responses received positive public feedback from the legal,
                              governance, superannuation, insurance and restructuring sectors.16

               45             Throughout the pandemic, we benefited from sharing insights and learnings
                              with our stakeholders and peers. Our response to the pandemic was
                              supported by our collaborative work with our regulated population,
                              Government and our domestic and international counterparts. Our continuing
                              regular liaison with Government, and relationships with our regulated




16 See: Financial Regulator Assessment Authority, Effectiveness and Capability Review of the Australian Securities and
  rvestments Commission [report], July 2022, paragraphs 3.60 and 3.85.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                      Page 15
                                                               Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                     Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                             population and counterparts, will allow us to respond to future events and
                             minimise the regulatory burden on industry.

              46             Overall, based on our monitoring work, we found that our regulated
                             population was resilient in response to the pandemic.17 Our markets
                             remained stable. Banks, fund managers and superannuation trustees did not
                             experience liquidity issues. Consumer confidence remained high. Borrowers
                             continued to make loan repayments following permitted deferral periods by
                             lenders and company insolvencies decreased. Measures introduced by the
                             Government to financially assist businesses and consumers during the
                             pandemic contributed to this resilience.

              47             In the early stages of the pandemic, it was clear that industry was faced with
                             significant disruption and uncertainty due to the absence of technological
                             neutrality in the Corporations Act. For example, due to pandemic restrictions
                             on public gatherings, companies were unable to hold annual general
                             meetings in person and directors could not sign documents using wet
                             signatures as required. Interim and subsequent reforms by Government have
                             largely resolved these issues. However, this demonstrated the importance of
                             technology neutral compliance obligations for industry.

              48             Inevitably, we found that opportunistic scams and misconduct targeting
                             vulnerable consumers increased during the pandemic and continue to be
                             prevalent. It was necessary to focus our supervisory and enforcement work
                             on protecting consumers from this harm. In response, we have retained
                             scams and cyber and operational resilience among ASIC’s core strategic
                             projects and introduced new technology to disrupt investment scam and
                             phishing websites from targeting consumers.

              49             Our ability to identify the key pandemic risks faced by industry and
                             consumers, and monitor industry’s response, was impeded by the absence of
                             data on our regulated population. For example, we do not receive recurrent
                             data from issuers of unlisted financial products and had to seek targeted
                             information from a selection of industry participants using our formal notice
                             powers to monitor the impact of the pandemic. The absence of data on our
                             broader population limits our ability to make more holistic observations
                             about the impact of the pandemic on industry and consumers.

              50             Based on our experience, additional data gathering powers would enhance
                             our capacity to monitor and respond to domestic and global issues. This is an
                             issue that we are continuing to engage with Government on. For instance,
                             our recent public submission to the Government’s Review of the regulatory
                            frameworkfor managed investment schemes includes recommendations to
                             increase our data capabilities through the introduction of a legislative



17 See: ASIC Corporate Plan 2021-25: Focus 202/ 22. p 7.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                 Page 16
                                                                 Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                       Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                              framework for the recurrent collection of data on the funds management
                              sector.18

               51             Our ability to use the data we do collect to gain meaningful insights and
                              inform our regulatory responses during the pandemic was made more
                              challenging and resource intensive due to the absence of compulsory digital
                              financial reporting (i.e. reporting in a machine-readable format). For
                              example, we were required to manually review company financial reports to
                              assess whether they reflected the impact of the pandemic. In contrast, in
                              other jurisdictions such as the United States, digital financial reporting is
                              mandatory. Mandating lodgement of documents, such as financial reports, in
                              digital format would allow us to make greater use of the data we collect. It
                              would also improve transparency in capital markets, thereby reducing
                              systemic risk.19

               52             In conclusion, the Australian financial services sector fared well during the
                              pandemic, aided by our actions throughout the pandemic to readjust our
                              regulatory priorities and work to stabilise markets, protect and inform
                              consumers and minimise the regulatory burden on industry. Crucially, we
                              collaborated closely with Government and counterparts to ensure an
                              informed and consistent regulatory response. We continue to monitor
                              emerging issues and market changes, and use our experiences gained during
                              the pandemic to assist us to respond to future domestic or global events.




18 See: Review of the regulatory framework for managed investment schemes: Submission by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission, September 2023, p 46-47.
19 This issue was highlighted in Productivity Commission Inquiry into Data Availability and Use: Submission by the
Australian Securities and Investments Commission, August 2016, p 7-8.



©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                   Page 17
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




Appendix A

Examples of other measures in response to the pandemic

  Date             ASIC action                                       Details


  April 2020       Released guidance to liquidators on               Set out the ability for liquidators to
                   dealing with challenges of the                    apply for a no-action position if
                   pandemic                                          they faced compliance issues and
                                                                     that we would waive late fees
                   ASIC Corporate Insolvency Update -                arising from the pandemic
                   Issue 15 | ASIC

  6 May            Released our observations about                   Highlighted that we had observed
  2020             initial pandemic trading by retail client         that retail investors were engaging
                                                                     in short term trading strategies
                                                                     unsuccessfully attempting to time
                                                                     price trends (which had
                             U etail i                      Jr       contributed to our initial directions
                   volatile markets | ASIC                           to market participants 20-062MR
                                                                     ASIC takes steps to ensure equity
                                                                     market resiliency | ASIC)

  7 May            Released reminder to directors on                 Set out important considerations
  2020             trading during the COVID-19                       for directors (including directors of
                   pandemic                                          the responsible entity of a listed
                                                                     managed investment scheme)
                   Reminders on director trading during              regarding the acquisition and
                   COVID-19 | ASIC                                   disposal of securities and other
                                                                     financial products issued by their
                                                                     listed entity

  14 May           Issued correspondence to market                   Outlined that while we had lifted
  2020             participants                                      relevant directions on market
                                                                     participants, we expected all equity
                   Letter to all eguity market participants          market participants to take
                   (asic.gov.au)                                     reasonable steps to ensure the
                                                                     number of trades matched from
                                                                     their orders are capable of being
                                                                     handled by their internal
                                                                     processing and risk management
                                                                     systems and support the fair and
                                                                     orderly operation of Australian
                                                                     equity markets




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 18
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




  12 June          Released INFO 245: Board oversight                Helped boards and remuneration
  2020             of executive variable pay decisions               committees navigate decisions on
                   during the COVID-19 pandemic                      executive variable pay, in the
                                                                     context of COVID-19
                                IP    et 2 5 Be
                   oversight and discretion in executive
                   variable pay schemes | ASIC

  June to          Monitored buy now pay later products              The use of buy now pay later
  November         and the response by the sector to the             increased by approximately 43%
  2020             COVID-19 pandemic. Released Buy                   by number and value of
                   now pay later: An industry update:                transactions from June 2019 to
                   Report 672                                        June 2020. We engaged with
                                                                     consumer representatives and
                   Buy now pay later: An industry update             closely monitored the use of small
                   (asic.qov.au)                                     amount and alternative credit
                                                                     products, especially by vulnerable
                                                                     consumers

  June 2020        Established the Corporate                         The Panel met once in 2019-20
                   Governance Consultative Panel in                  and twice in 2020-21 to discuss
                   2020 to enable ASIC to gain a deeper              the impact of the COVID-19
                   understanding of developments and                 pandemic; environmental, social
                   emerging issues in corporate                      and governance issues; cyber
                   governance practices.                             resilience; and insolvency reforms

                   Members of this Panel include listed
                   company directors, industry
                   association representatives,
                   institutional investors and academics

  November         Released an update on the impact of               Since April 2020, we made
  2020             the pandemic on our assessment of                 additional reguisitions of all AFS
                   licensees and professional registrants            and credit licence applicants to
                                                                     clarify the impact of the COVID-19
                                                                     pandemic on their businesses

                   REP 671 Licensing and professional
                   registration activities: 2 20 update |
                   ASIC

  30 April         Released our findings on our review               Our review found that the selected
  2021             of registered managed investment                  retail managed funds did not face
                   schemes and liguidity                             serious investor liguidity
                                                                     challenges during the height of
                   21-1       SIC              etail                 COVID-19 market disruption, and
                   managed funds responded well to                   that their liguidity frameworks were
                   COVID-19 challenges in 2020 | ASIC                generally adeguate




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 19
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




  10 August        Released our findings on our review               Our review found the selected
  2021 "           of the valuation practices of                     responsible entities were
                   responsible entities of registered                responsive to the increased
                   schemes                                           valuation risks during the review
                                                                     period. They continued to provide
                   21-212MR ASIC finds good practices                timely valuations of their illiguid
                   from COVID-19 review of managed                   assets, including by increasing the
                   funds’ valuation of illiguid assets |             freguency of valuations, expanding
                   ASIC                                              the sources of information to
                                                                     benchmark valuations and
                                                                     assumptions. They also continued
                                                                     to be able to obtain and rely on
                                                                     external valuations.

  26 August        Released INFO 249: Frozen funds -                 Updated guidance on new relief
  2020             Information for responsible entities,             measures for operators of frozen
                   and Revised RG 136: Funds                         funds to facilitate withdrawals by
                   management: Discretionary powers                  members facing financial hardship
                                                                     during the COVID-19 pandemic
                   Frozen funds - Information for
                   responsible entities | ASIC

  22 April         Wrote to general insurers and life                Outlined our expectations for
  2021             insurers setting out our expectations             dealing with consumers during the
                   responding to consumers in financial              pandemic, including that a range
                   hardship                                          of support options should be
                                                                     offered and that there should be
                   Letter to general insurers and Letter to          prominent disclosure of key
                   I    surei                                        pandemic exclusions and
                                                                     limitations

  9                Released guidance on areas of focus               Outlined our expectations for
  December         for financial reporting given the impact          financial reports to assess and
  2021             of COVID 19                                       explain the impact on COVID-19
                                                                     on valuations and provisions and
                   21-342MR ASIC highlights focus                    that assessments of solvency and
                   areas for 31 December 2021 financial              going concern were appropriate
                   reports under COVID-19 conditions |
                   ASIC




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 20
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




Appendix B

 Key pandemic related instruments and no-action positions

  Date           Legislative instrument/No                  Benefit to business
                 action position


  20 March       20-068MR Guidelines for                    Provided a temporary no-action position
  2020           meeting upcoming AGM and                   to facilitate an additional two months for
                 financial reporting reguirements           companies to hold the AGM
                 | ASIC

  2 April        ASIC Corporations (Trading                 Facilitated capital raisings by allowing
  2020           Suspensions Relief) Instrument             listed entities suspended for up to 10
                 2020/289                                   trading days (compared to previous 5) to
                                                            access low-doc capital raisings

  14 April       Temporary no-action position               Provided a temporary no-action position
  2020           for expanded intra-fund advice             to facilitate the provision of intra-fund
                 on early release of                        advice on the COVID-19 early release
                 superannuation relating to                 scheme
                 COVID-19 | ASIC

  15 April       ASIC Corporations (COVID-                  Facilitated retail clients receiving timely
  2020           19—Advice-related Relief)                  and affordable financial product advice
                 Instrument 2020/355

  25 April       ASIC Corporations (Extended               Allowed unlisted entities up to one
  2020           Reporting and Lodgment                    additional month to complete financial
                 Deadlines—Unlisted Entities)              reports and have those reports audited
                 Instrument 2020/395

  25 April       ASIC Corporations (COVID-19                Facilitated ADIs providing their existing
  2020           - Distribution of Debit Cards)             customers with debit cards
                 Instrument 2020/401

  28 April       ASIC Corporations (Extended               Allowed listed entities up to one additional
  2020           Reporting and Lodgment                    month to complete financial reports and
                 Deadlines—Listed Entities)                have those reports audited
                 Instrument 2020/451

  27 May         ASIC Corporations (Deferral of             Provided relief in relation to the
  2020           Design and Distribution                    commencement of the design and
                 Obligations) Instrument                    distribution obligations (DDO) for six
                 2020/486                                   months




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 21
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




  28 May         ASIC Credit (Deferral of                   Provided relief in relation to the
  2020           Mortgage Broker Obligations)               commencement of the mortgage broker
                 Instrument 2020/487                        reforms for six months

  24 June        ASIC Corporations (COVID-19                Facilitated the electronic lodgement of
  2020           Email Lodgment Service—ASIC                documents for the purposes of relief
                 Corporations (Wholly-owned                 under ASIC Corporations (Wholly-owned
                 Companies) Instrument                      Companies) Instrument 2016/785
                 2016/785) Instrument 202 (612

  28 August      ASIC Corporations (Hardship                Facilitated REs of registered schemes
  2020           Withdrawals Relief) Instrument             making withdrawal payments to members
                 202 (778                                   on hardship grounds

  21             ASIC Market Integrity Rules                Relieved market participants from the
  October        (Securities Markets) Class                 reguirement to have accreditations of their
  2020           Waiver Instrument 2020/870                 advisers renewed on 30 November 2020




  14             1     rto      si ice          cil        Provided a temporary no-action position
  January        of Australia outlining no-action          from provisions that reguire documents to
  2021           position                                  be given to clients within five business
                                                           days of specified events for the duration
                                                           of the temporary adjustment in Australia
                                                           Post’s performance standards

  29 March       21-061 MR ASIC adopts ‘no­                Provided a temporary no-action position
  2021           action’ position and re-issues            for the holding of virtual meeting pending
                 guidelines for virtual meetings |         Government reforms
                 ASIC

  1 April        ASIC Corporations (Virtual-only           Facilitated listed companies, unlisted
  2022           Meetings) Instrument 2 122/129            companies together with listed and
                                                           unlisted registered schemes, to hold
                                                           virtual-only meetings of their members for
                                                           an extended period beyond the expiry of
                                                           the current temporary relief measures
                                                           introduced by the Treasury Laws
                                                           Amendment (2021 Measures No. 1) Act
                                                           2021




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 22
                                                              Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                    Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




Key terms


                             Term                      Meaning in this document

                             ADI                       Authorised deposit-taking institution

                             ASIC                      Australian Securities and Investments Commission

                             APRA                      Australian Prudential Regulation Authority

                             Corporations Act          Corporations Act 2001, including regulations made for the
                                                       purposes of that Act

                             Council of Financial      The CFR is the coordinating body for Australia's main
                             Regulators (CFR)          financial regulatory agencies. There are four members:
                                                       APRA, ASIC, the Australian Treasury and the Reserve
                                                       Bank of Australia

                             COVID-19 early            Eligible Australian and New Zealand citizens and
                             release scheme            permanent residents were able to apply online through
                                                       myGov to access up to $10,000 of their superannuation
                                                       before 1 July 2020. They were also able to access up to a
                                                       further $10,000 from 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2020

                             COVID-19 pandemic         A global outbreak of coronavirus - an infectious disease
                                                       caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome
                                                       coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)

                             Financial hardship        When a consumer has difficulty making loan and debt
                                                       payments or meeting their other basic financial needs

                              IOSCO                    International Organization of Securities Commissions

                              IAIS                     International Association of Insurance Supervisors

                              IFIAR                    International Forum of Independent Audit Regulators

                             Managed investment        Has the meaning given in s9 of the Corporations Act
                             scheme

                             Moneysmart website        ASIC’s website for consumers and investors

                             No-action position        A no-action letter in which we state to a particular person
                                                       that we do not intend to take regulatory action over a
                                                       particular state of affairs or particular conduct

                             OECD                      Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
                                                       Development

                             OTC                       Over the counter

                             Relief                    The exercise of ASIC’s exemption or declaration powers
                                                       in the form of an instrument




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                                Page 23
                                                             Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry:
                                                   Submission by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission




                             Term                     Meaning in this document

                             Responsible entity       A responsible entity of a registered managed investment
                                                      scheme as defined in s9 of the Corporations Act

                             Retail client            Has the meaning given in s9 of the Corporations Act




©Australian Securities and Investments Commission December2023                                               Page 24
