                                                                                    Public
              14 December 2023                                                (_ Jp Pathology
                                                                              MQP AUSTRALIA
              Ms Robyn Kruk AO, Professor Catherine Bennett, Dr Angela Jackson
              COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
              Via: https://www.pmc.gov.au/covid-19-response-inquiry/consultation

                                                 COVID-19 Response Inquiry Submission

              Thank you for providing Public Pathology Australia the opportunity to contribute to the
              Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

              Background
              Public Pathology Australia (PPA) is the national peak body for Government owned and
              operated pathology services. PPA members cover all jurisdictions in Australia.

              Public Pathology Response to COVID-19
              The response by the public pathology sector was effective from the earliest stage of the
              pandemic, covered a broad spectrum of activities including testing patients for COVID-19 in
              the acute health sector whilst ensuring equity of access to testing in other settings, and also
              facilitated the private pathology sector response. Public pathology did this at cost and in close
              partnership with Government.

              Public pathology was the first pathology provider to test for COVID-19 in Australia, the first to
              establish drive through collection centres and to deliver timely SMS reporting. Public
              pathology providers performed the majority of acute and high risk COVID testing and were the
              sole provider for genomic sequencing for contact tracing and epidemiological purposes.
              Public pathology’s reach spanned metropolitan and rural communities with laboratories
              located close to where testing was required to maintain clinically relevant turn-around times
              for test results. This enabled testing for all communities including the vulnerable and
              disadvantaged. Public pathology also tested for COVID-19 in quarantine hotels, medi-hotels,
              virtual hospitals, airports, defence, maritime and mining sectors. Fora summary of the public
              pathology response to the COVID-19 pandemic, click here.

              Recommendations
              It is important to ensure that the public pathology sector is well supported to maintain
              pandemic preparedness including funding to ensure public laboratories can develop new tests
              and participate in surveillance measures. Secure, specified block funding for pandemic
              preparedness for public pathology services is critical. Public laboratories develop tests for
              new pathogens before commercial testing kits are available for other pathology providers to
              commence testing. Public laboratories need to be resourced to maintain this capability.
              Funding is required to support ongoing scientific expertise and training in each state to enable
              a rapid response to novel pathogens as routine diagnostic training does not cover the skills
              required to respond to new pathogens.

              Public pathology providers need to be appropriately funded throughout a pandemic. The
              50/50 cost share National Partnership on COVID-19 Response (NPA) between the
              Commonwealth and the States/Territories was useful when it covered the broad range of
              activities that public pathology was engaged in during the pandemic. However, the 50%
              Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) fee reduction for public pathology which did not apply to
              private pathology providers was inappropriate when all pathology providers received funding
              via the MBS and the States (under the NPA) for non-MBS tests. The private pathology MBS
              test fee could have been perceived as a signal by the jurisdictions.



                                                                                                          Page 1 of 3


Public Pathology Australia ABN: 93 439 259 975
PO Box 81 St Ives NSW 2075                                                                Community First, Always.
(07) 3102 4094 | contact@publicpathology.org.au | W: publicpathology.org.au
            There needed to be consistency and transparency in private pathology contracts with the
            States/Territories and a mechanism to ensure pricing was appropriate. For example, where
            specimens were pooled (tested in a group), there should have not been separate charges for
            each specimen tested.

            Residential aged care facilities and their residents would have been better served had their
            usual or local pathology provider been their primary provider for COVID-19 testing instead of
            relying on one national contracted provider which became overburdened. The latter should
            have been used as a means of last resort rather than as first responder.

            A significant challenge throughout the pandemic was procurement of personal, protective
            equipment (PRE), test materials (e.g. swabs, reagents) and testing automation which were
            impacted by the increased world-wide demand for COVID-19 testing. Pathology services were
            reliant on international supply chains and Australia was competing for supplies internationally
            and between states. There needs to be investment in local manufacturing of PPE, collection
            and laboratory consumables and diversification of testing platforms and supplies. Public
            pathology production of viral transport medium and a partnership with a local 3D printer for
            swabs worked well during the pandemic.

            There needed to be greater interaction between National and State/Territory Stockpile
            Managers and pathology providers to ensure items purchased (e.g. consumables, Rapid
            Antigen Tests RATs) are fit for purpose. A central, coordinated, crisis procurement agency
            with links to public pathology providers would be beneficial. Nationally coordinated transport
            and storage logistics for the movement of critical supplies both nationally and internationally
            could also be considered.

            There needed to be greater rigor attached to accreditation by the Therapeutic Goods
            Administration (TGA). By way of example, saliva RATs had very poor performance.
            Mandatory saliva testing had questionable effectiveness and was a burden for laboratories to
            validate and implement.

            The pandemic highlighted the importance of real-time genomic sequencing in managing
            community spread and informing public health units on lockdowns. Funding for this type of
            testing is currently unrecognised at the national level and each jurisdiction should be funded
            to build and maintain this capacity. It is important to mandate data-sharing of genomic
            sequencing across borders to support improved tracking of cases, particularly in the early
            phases of an outbreak.

            Given the importance of pathology testing in a pandemic, it is important that the current
            workforce crisis in pathology is resolved. There is also no surge capacity in the current
            laboratory funding structure to meet pandemic demands. Staff skills to perform highly
            specialised molecular testing are relatively rare and staff shortages impede the ability of
            services to rapidly upscale to large testing numbers in a 24/7 environment. There is no
            designated funding for public pathology services to support delivering safe and optimal sample
            collection methods, advising on infection control, test performance and turnaround time,
            conducting assessments of new test methods and technologies, and attending public health
            meetings as subject matter experts. This lack of resourcing also significantly hampers the
            ability of public health laboratories to undertake important translational research in real time
            to inform and guide the pandemic response.




Public Pathology Australia Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                      Page 2 of 3

Public Pathology Australia ABN: 93 439 259 975
PO Box 81 St Ives NSW 2075
                                                                                       Community First, Always.
P: 07 3102 4094 | E: contact@publicpathology.org.au | W: publicpathology.org.au
            In the past there has been a general lack of recognition of the challenges faced in delivering
            testing services in remote and regional areas, including Indigenous communities. While testing
            is more challenging and expensive, early diagnosis is vitally important in prioritising
            management of inpatients and outpatients in smaller towns and communities. The use of
            higher cost rapid PCR testing is essential in this circumstance, but this has not been rebated
            on the MBS.

            Prior to the pandemic, there was no federally coordinated planning on how to provide testing
            services to regional and remote communities, which became exacerbated once lockdowns
            and border restrictions were instituted. It is important to acknowledge and support the strength
            of public pathology services within each state and territory to perform laboratory testing in
            remote and Indigenous communities, rather than outsourcing to other entities which then
            require considerable assistance from public pathology services.

            Data systems for rapid and efficient transfer of results to Health Departments are not
            optimised, leading to significant workarounds during the pandemic to facilitate the data
            required by Public Health Units to coordinate the response. Traditionally only positive results
            of notifiable diseases are transferred. During the pandemic, all positive and negative results
            and additional data was required. There needs to be systematic data linkages developed and
            maintained between laboratories and Public Health Units.

            There was no system for self-registration of patients attending a COVID clinic or a process to
            send results directly to patients via SMS, as traditionally all results go to a requesting doctor
            through traditional practice software. This was developed during the pandemic and has since
            ceased. This would need to be funded in the event of further outbreaks.

            During the COVID-19 pandemic, the public-private laboratory interface could have been better
            managed to reduce duplication, better coordinate equipment, streamline multiple lines of
            communication and improve specimen transfer processes.

            Public pathology actively provided advice to State, Territory and Commonwealth Governments
            and global entities to assist in managing the COVID-19 pandemic. This occurred via a range
            of means such as direct participation in State Health Emergency Operating Committees,
            operation of the Public Health Laboratory Network and liaison between Public Pathology
            Australia and Governments. This was critical to the COVID-19 response and will be essential
            in future outbreaks.

            Please     contact   Public Pathology Australia      on   (07) 3102 4094          or email
            contact(a),publicpatholoqy.orq.au should you require further information in relation to this
            submission.




Public Pathology Australia Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                       Page 3 of 3

Public Pathology Australia ABN: 93 439 259 975
PO Box 81 St Ives NSW 2075
                                                                                        Community First, Always.
P: 07 3102 4094 | E: contact@publicpathology.org.au | W: publicpathology.org.au
