Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry



I am an Australian born mother, researcher, part-time administrator and farmer. I am making this
submission due to the unprecedented disruption and harm that the Government's response to
Covid-19 has wrought on an Australia that I barely recognise as the place of freedom and a fair go.

If anyone had told me pre-2019 that my husband could be sacked for being healthy; I would have to
bribe my way into a shop to buy school shoes for my children; or that those children could be
summarily discriminated against because their parents declined their participation in a medical
experiment, I would not have believed them.

That the same medical experiment was the subject of misinformation broadcast by the Trusted News
Initiative, via the Government and paid for by our taxes, is still a source of disbelief.



    1.   Who was responsible for the complete non-adherence, indeed the opposite response,
         advised in the comprehensive 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic
         (Influenza) and why did this happen?
         https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/05/australian-health-
         management-plan-for-pandemic-influenza-ahmppi.pdf

         It recommended against the most destructive of the Government responses including:
              -  Mask wearing - "No evidence" of effectiveness. Masking the entire, non-
                 symptomatic population was not even considered.
              -  Border closures - International - "Overall, the quality of the evidence available about
                 the effectiveness of border measures is low".
                 Internal travel restrictions - Not recommended in general as benefits are likely to be
                 minor. Effectiveness - Minor. Direct & Secondary costs - High"
              -  School closures - Proactive - "Not generally recommended. The level of disruption is
                 likely to outweigh benefits". Reactive- "Not recommended unless the disease has
                 high clinical severity or children are a group at risk of complications".
              -  Workplace closure - "Not generally recommended. Effectiveness - moderate. Direct
                 costs & Secondary costs - High. Costs include effects on profits, availability of goods
                 and services, and job security. Modelling has estimated the macroeconomic impacts
                 of school and workplace closure are likely to exceed costs caused by the pandemic
                 itself.
              -  Cancellation of mass gatherings - "Not generally recommended. Benefits are
                 uncertain. Secondary costs - High".

         It recommended:

             -   Antivirals for treatment of cases - "Recommended for all cases during the Initial
                 Action stage. Benefits - Treatment may reduce symptoms and thus reduce morbidity
                 and mortality, and decrease disease transmission to contacts. It may also contribute
                 to the prevention of secondary bacterial infection.
     One may well ask what is the point of having a timely, comprehensive, and especially in
     hindsight prophetic National document if it is summarily thrown out as soon as exactly the
     scenario it was designed to prevent occurred?

     The Australian people need to know why and how this now sadly brilliant plan was ignored,
     because the result has been devastating for our population and economy.



2.   The Australian People whose taxes have/are paying for the Covid-19 mRNA Treatments, at
     the very least need to know what the arrangements were/are with the Vaccine
     Manufacturers. The secrecy around these arrangements is unconscionable on every level.

         -   What is the cost of the Covid-19 injections to date
         -   What are Australia's ongoing commitments
         -   Why was enough product for up to or above 10 x injections for the Australian
             population purchased initially as the public were being told that an initial injection
             plus one follow up booster were a full course for 95% protection against infection
             and transmission. On what were these demonstrably false figures based?

         -   Why and how was immunity for the manufacturers granted and is that immunity
             legal in light of the




3.   What were the Regulatory Bodies that were supposed to be working for the Australian
     people really doing and what was their motivation?

         -   Therapeutic Goods Administration - the TGA's complete maladministration in
             relation to approval of the novel mRNA treatments and their unexplainable lack of
             testing or checks on the contents, genotoxicity and long-term safety of the products
             is fairly easily explained by the fact they are a clear example of regulatory capture.
             They are 94% funded by the pharmaceutical companies whose products they are
             supposed to police. How did this happen and why was this not an obvious danger
             signal prior to Covid-19?

             Their complete lack of due diligence in relation to the glaring signals of the Covid-19
             products danger since their implementation is only able to be described as
             malfeasance that has resulted in unnecessary death of Australian men, women and
             children, including the unborn.

         -   Australian Health Professionals Regulatory Agency - the gagging of the entire
             medical profession by AHPRA with its 9 March 2021 Position Statement - Registered
             health practitioners and students and COVID-19 vaccination was in all likelihood one
             of the darkest days for the Medical Industry in the history of this nation.
                 It removed any remnants of Doctor /patient privilege, informed consent and the
                 ability of Doctors to treat patients as individuals - the basis for providing the best
                 treatment for each person as an individual using a physicians knowledge of their
                 distinct history and circumstances being the bedrock of best practice.

       Unfortunately, one truth and one size fits all healthcare has proven to be instrumental in the
       excess death statistics and the monumental harms from the mRNA experiment.

       How an experimental treatment, with no safety data was able to be mandated by the
       Government on any of our population in breach of everything from the Siracusa Principles to
       the Nuremberg Code and Australian Immunisation Handbook, and who should pay for the
       damage done is on its own topic enough for a Royal Commission, and the instigation of
       Criminal proceedings.



Mrs Karen Fox.
