g
     Australian Government
     Department of Agriculture,
     Fisheries and Forestry




    Department of the Prime
    Minister and Cabinet


    Commonwealth Government COVID-
    19 Response Inquiry




    December 2023




                                     i
Introduction
  1. The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (DAFF) welcomes the
     opportunity to provide this submission to the Department of the Prime Minister and
     Cabinet into the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

Overview of DAFF
  2. DAFF’s vision is a more sustainable and prosperous Australia through biosecurity,
     agricultural production, and trade. The department’s purpose is to work together to
     safeguard and grow sustainable agriculture, fisheries, and forestry for all Australians.

  3.       The key objectives are:

       •   Industry growth - support industry to grow toward a $100 billion agriculture,
           fisheries, and forestry industry by 2030 amid changing global market conditions.
       •   Biosecurity - strengthen our national biosecurity system to provide an appropriate
           level of protection to Australia’s people, our environment and economy from the
           biosecurity threats of today and tomorrow.
       •   Resilience and sustainability - Increase the contribution agriculture, fisheries and
           forestry make to a healthy, sustainable and low emissions environment.

  4. DAFF has a broad and diverse range of policy, program and legislative responsibilities
     supporting agriculture, fisheries and forestry production and international trade and
     market access, and significant regulatory responsibilities across exports, biosecurity,
     illegal logging, and agricultural levies. It has a large operational footprint, including at
     major airports and ports and in remote locations, and specific responsibilities in both
     animal and human health.

  5. We provide regulatory services for many parts of the economy through our activities
     facilitating imports and exports of goods from and into Australia. Our staff work on
     policy, on-ground programs, regulation, economics, science and research, international
     negotiations, technical market access and operational programs. The department is a
     critical part of Australia’s supply chain, facilitating economic growth, manufacturing and
     trade and market access for both agricultural and non-agricultural products in Australia.
     The department also advises on policies and helps farmers and rural communities in
     relation to drought and agricultural land and water use.

  6. Functioning as the Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment (DAWE) at
     the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, the department’s role intersected with all three
     themes of this inquiry: health, governance and social and economic impacts. Drawing
     on our experience and learnings, the submission will pay particular attention to the
     following aspects of the Terms of Reference:

       •   Key health response measures (for e.g. across COVID-19 vaccination and
           treatments, key medical supplies such as Personal Protective Equipment,
           quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).
       •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities
           of state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms and advisory
           bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.
       •   Support for industry and businesses (for e.g. responding to supply chain and
           transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).



                                                                                                    2
PDR
Health response measures

  7. The department was prioritising three areas of focus: ensuring the safety of all staff
     including those involved in critical front-line roles in high risk environments, directly
     supporting the Department of Health through the Biosecurity Act 2015 to implement
     health measures for travellers and to facilitate timely and efficient import of key
     supplies such as vaccination supplies, RAT tests and Personal Protective Equipment
     (PPE); and continuing to perform its regulatory functions in critical industries
     (including food production and distribution).

     •   The Secretary of the department is the Director of Biosecurity which is a legislated
         function under the Biosecurity Act 2015 and shares responsibility with the Director
         of Human Biosecurity in relation to the management of listed human diseases and
         biosecurity risk.

     Staff safety

  8. The department monitored and followed Commonwealth, state and territory Health and
     Government directions to ensure the health and safety of our staff. This was informed
     by government advice (including from the Australian Health Protection Principal
     Committee) and health directives (State and Territory Public Health Orders), risk
     assessments, consideration of hazards and risks associated with our business and
     undertaking appropriate risk mitigation activities against an evolving risk appetite.

         a. The department has staff located around the country in key import/export
            operations, such as airports, ports, meat processing facilities and other third-
            party premises (TPPs). Some of these establishments were designated as both
            high risk and critical for ongoing operations.

  9. In line with state and territory health officials recommending people work from home,
     managers were asked to review business continuity planning and enable workers to
     work from home where possible, ensuring the continued safe and effective delivery of
     critical services to the Australian public.

  10. The biggest impact to DAFF’s day-to-day large-scale operations was experienced in
      Sydney and Melbourne. This was due to high COVID case numbers and community
      transmission in sites where our staff operate, the subsequent Public Health Orders
      issued by the State or Territory, and the logistical and safety consequences thereof. On
      a smaller scale, the department encountered significant impacts due to the nature of its
      operations, including the need to move staff throughout Australia and overseas to
      respond to staff shortages or critical regulatory issues. These impacts were
      compounded by many of the department’s regulated entities setting ‘bespoke’
      requirements in addition to those set by state and territory health regulators - including
      only permitted vaccinate employees to enter facilities, invasive biometric scanning
      requirements or limiting departmental employees to only be deployed to singular
      establishments.

  11. Overall, the flow of communication and impacts felt by the department improved as the
      pandemic progressed and more and more businesses and Australians became
      accustomed to COVID requirements imposed. It is recognised however that at times
      the lack of availability of communication support meant agencies were duplicating effort
      to support campaigns for matters like staff vaccination and PPE requirements. Differing
      rules for each state/territory also led to confusion and significant delays in the delivery
      of advice.

  12. As an agency with a number of critical workers, including many directly supporting the
      clearance of travellers and the provision of critical supplies, the requirement for
                                                                                                 3
   agencies to purchase RAT tests on an individual basis and not through a centralised
   process also created issues and delays.

13. The March 2020 international travel ban meant over 70 percent of biosecurity officers
    based at international airports were redeployed to other areas of the department or the
    broader public service (including in the States and Territories) following significant
    reductions in passenger arrivals.

14. While staffing was reduced, the role for biosecurity officers remaining at airports was
    extended. For example, biosecurity officers:

       a. boarded every flight and played the on-arrival Health COVID-19 announcement
          and handed out the COVID factsheet to all arriving international travellers prior
          to disembarkation

       b. at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Darwin airports, played an announcement
          which outlined the COVID testing and quarantine requirements for each
          jurisdiction

       c. at Brisbane international airport, undertook temperature testing for travellers
          departing Australia to Pacific Island Countries

       d. scanned and emailed the Health Declaration Card (paper version of the
          electronic Australia Travel Declaration) to the jurisdictions for the purpose of
          contact tracing.

15. DAFF experienced increasing demand for services given border closures and
    lockdowns impacting trade in 2020, especially for goods under $1,000 (which are
    generally consumer household purchases).

16. Isolation periods required by jurisdictions’ Public Health Orders also reduced the
    availability of staff to attend premises to undertake inspections of both inbound and
    outbound goods as required.

17. Surge requests were coordinated through the APSC and at times there were issues
    experienced with relevant information not being passed onto the gaining organisation
    (e.g., preferred secondment start dates, employees’ locations, equipment provision,
    etc). The notice period for the cessation of employees’ secondments was also often
    quite short.

18. To ensure an undisrupted supply of COVID-19 test kits, the Director of Biosecurity and
    Director of Human Biosecurity made an instrument under subsection 174(1) of the
    Biosecurity Act 2015 (Biosecurity Act), titled the Biosecurity (Conditionally Non­
   prohibited Goods) Amendment (Test Kits) Determination 2021.

19. This instrument amended the Biosecurity (Conditionally Non-prohibited Goods)
    Determination 2021 to specify conditions that must be met before test kits could be
    brought or imported into Australian territory. In many cases, COVID-19 test kits can
    meet these specified conditions. Where test kits do not meet the import conditions, an
    import permit is required. This legislative amendment addressed a supply chain
    concern by streamlining the importation of these goods while still managing biosecurity
    risk.

20. To maintain export certification and regulatory responsibilities whilst also protecting our
    staff, DAFF organised where possible to conduct remote regulatory auditing. This
    ensured critical regulatory activities progressed whilst minimising the exposure of
    DAFF officers, with these measures becoming more embedded in both regulatory
    auditing undertaken by DAFF, but also with trading partners seeking to maintain the

                                                                                              4
   trading relationships through remote auditing of abattoirs. It is important to note though
   that this was not always effective - with many international trading partners refusing to
   accept agricultural exports unless verified, in person, by a departmental officer. The
   department did also use the implications of COVID 19 in food inspections systems to
   progress the development, through the Codex Alimentarius Commission of a new
   international standard for remote audit and assurance in food inspection systems -
   using our experiences of COVID-19 in food inspection systems as a base.

27. Finally, and in understanding that whether to require mandatory staff vaccinations is a
    complex issue, the department notes that it, like all operational government agencies,
    struggled to develop a position on whether mandatory vaccination of frontline workers
    was required. For context, mandatory vaccination against Q-fever is a requirement for
    all departmental On-Plant Veterinarians and Food Safety Meat Assessors due to the
    known links between adverse human health outcomes (Q-fever) and employment in
    the meat processing sector. In the case of COVID-19, a direct linkage to place of
    employment and an adverse human health outcome was less clear, and a formal
    position on mandatory vaccination requirements within the Australian Public Service
    was not reached. Disparate state and territory requirements surrounding placements of
    vaccinated workers, compounded by industry or business specified access
    arrangements required careful management to ensure staff availability - which
    included understanding and confirming whether staff were vaccinated in order to
    deploy them for certain tasks.

Biosecurity Act 2015 and support for delivery of health measures

22. The department performs human health regulatory functions under the Biosecurity Act
    2015, both as part of the duties of biosecurity officers and on behalf of the Department
    of Health and Aged Care, under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the
    agencies.

   •   Biosecurity officers undertake border measures including non-clinical screening
       and assessing of travellers at international air and seaports. These functions are
       aimed at mitigating the introduction, establishment and spread of listed human
       diseases (LHDs) and some other infectious diseases in Australia.

23. Decision support materials for biosecurity officers were amended to screen for
    travellers with signs or symptoms of COVID, arriving in Australia via both air and
    maritime pathways. Officers underwent training in new procedures, which was also
    subject to regular verification processes.

24. During the pandemic, and in the aftermath, the requirement to contact jurisdictional
    authorities on all COVID diagnoses, in some cases under different reporting protocols,
    caused some challenges and delays to traveller clearances. There is value in further
    regular examination of processes at a holistic level to ensure they remain appropriately
    risk based and minimise duplication.

25. The arrival of the Ruby Princess cruise ship tested the protocols for the management
    of sea travellers and the intersection of multiple Commonwealth and jurisdictional
    processes. As this was the subject of a separate Special Commission of Inquiry, the
    matter is not discussed at length in this submission.

   •   A separate independent review by the Inspector General of Biosecurity was also
       undertaken in 2021 which has prompted a number of refinements to border
       clearance arrangements.

26. These reviews and learnings from the pandemic more generally underpin a number of
    continual improvements to both legislative settings and internal processes, many of


                                                                                            5
     which we continue to work closely with a number of agencies to refine and deliver,
     including:

     •   A strengthened biosecurity operating model introduced by the department and the
         Department of Health and Aged Care for international cruise vessels, to enable the
         appropriate sharing of information provided electronically in by vessel operators
         with all relevant port and health authorities.

     •   Implementation of an updated human health risk assessment process for
         international commercial vessels including cruise ships, consistent with public
         health requirements developed by the AHPPC.

     •   A review of all maritime guidance material for staff undertaking human health
         checks at the border.

     •   A new biosecurity training program rolled out to all operational staff to ensure they
         are well equipped to make robust operational decisions.

     •   A refresh of the Memoranda of Understanding with the Australian Border Force and
         the Department of Health.

     •   Improvements to the human health digital software supporting air and sea traveller
         clearance, including the Traveller with Illness Checklist.

     •   Legislative amendments to refine human health clearance processes for travellers,
         and annual reviews to optimise the legislative settings as required.

     •   A series of exercises to confidence test at-border delivery of critical human
         biosecurity functions for cruise vessels prior to cruise resumption, including all
         relevant Commonwealth state and territory agencies.

Governance
  27. In undertaking operational activity related to COVID and other health-related issues,
      the department relies on policy advice from Commonwealth health authorities,
      including the AHPPC.

  28. During the pandemic, the governance processes generally worked well. The
      department was well engaged (often indirectly) in processes to inform the decision­
      making by the AHPPC and National Cabinet and the decisions flowing from it.

  29. With respect to our responsibilities for human health under the Biosecurity Act 2015,
      the department continues to maintain close contact with the Department of Health to
      ensure appropriate governance and accountability mechanisms are in place for agreed
      areas of cooperation. Roles and responsibilities for these functions are set out in a
      Human Biosecurity Services schedule to the MOU. This Schedule is currently under
      revision and will incorporate emergency measures as an additional area of
      cooperation.

  30. The department and the Department of Health and Aged Care jointly chair the Human
      Biosecurity Forum which meets at least quarterly and provides policy and operational
      oversight to ensure relevant, responsive and appropriate management of human
      biosecurity threats to Australia.

  31. As an employer, the department found the experience of managing state vs federal
      government requirements relating to vaccination status to access the workplace
      challenging. For example, our post entry quarantine facility had both employees under

                                                                                                 6
     state government rulings such as contractors and staff employed under commonwealth
     rulings and staff were not permitted to be based in some designated airport zones
     unless they were vaccinated - even if they were not undertaking airport operations.
     Inconsistencies were clear when managing access to both sites.

Social and Economic
  32. In addition to the direct role in human health management at the border, the
      department played an active role to help manage critical supply chain issues.

  33. The department was an active member of the Supermarkets Taskforce, established by
      the Department of Home Affairs to allow supermarkets to work together in a non­
      competitive manner to resolve supply chain issues to ensure that consumers were able
      to access the goods that they needed.

  34. Industry cooperation was a critical component in stabilising consumer confidence,
      maintaining equitable access to food and minimising negative impacts, including health
      risks, for supermarket staff and customers. To assist industry confidence and the rapid
      sharing of information, the department appointed an ex-Deputy Secretary as an
      industry engagement touchpoint - funnelling information to various Inter-departmental
      and Ministerial Committee’s considering supply chain issues, food security and more.
      This provided a vital conduit of information between industry, the department and the
      broader government to assist targeted policy development and industry engagement.

  35. Noting the effect of supply chain issues and the shortage of air and sea freight
      capacity, in April 2020, the Australian Government established the International Freight
     Assistance Mechanism (IFAM) to keep global air links open in response to the ongoing
      effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. IFAM was a temporary, targeted, emergency
      measure to help Australian businesses deal with the COVID-19 pandemic.

  36. The purpose of IFAM was to help re-build and maintain key global supply chains,
      protecting hard fought market share for Australian businesses and enable the import of
      items critical to Australia’s national interest, including medical supplies, medicines and
      equipment to support Australia’s health response.

  37. A key feature of IFAM was the support it provided for international freight movements.
      This includes aggregating cargo loads, negotiating with airlines, working with partner
      governments to facilitate clearances, and improving transparency around freight costs
      during the pandemic.

  38. By keeping key airfreight routes open, IFAM provided Australian businesses
      disproportionately affected by COVID-19 time to adapt their business models, adjust to
      a new and tougher trading environment and preserve jobs. The total cost of the
      program was $1.04 billion.

  39. To ensure the continuation of export agricultural goods, particularly in relation to export
      registered abattoirs where meat exports to key export markets are contingent on the
      presence of department staff, veterinarians and food safety meat assessors were
      required on premise and were provided essential worker status. Their continued effort
      minimised the impact on this section of the Australian economy which was of particular
      importance to the regional areas these abattoirs are often found.

  40. The department also ensured ongoing regulatory compliance through auditing
      undertaken by departmental auditors who were required to continue to travel across
     Australia to meet legislative requirements underpinning certification of export
      prescribed products.

                                                                                               7
  41. Labour shortages threatened ongoing supplies of horticultural produce, and the
      department worked with the Northern Territory government and other Australian
      Government agencies to trial opening the border for workers under the Seasonal
     Worker Programme. The success of this trial enabled the restart of the Seasonal
     Worker Programme and Pacific Labour Scheme to fill key agricultural and meat
      processing jobs.

Conclusion
  42. In many ways, the department continues to recover from the impacts of the COVID
      disruption, including re-building staff resources and capability. One of the positive step­
      changes from the experience has been the flexibility of the introduction of remote and
      new ways of working which for a large organisation with a wide range of responsibilities
      and skill needs, has been beneficial in supporting more agile and innovative workforce
      strategies and outcomes.

  43. We welcome the Inquiry into the Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 Response
      and would be happy to provide further information and participate in discussions to
      support this submission and assist the Panel with its deliberations.




                                                                                                8
