The FEDERAL government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation like these two
Bills here :
https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Committees/Senate/Education_and_Emplo
yment/VaccineDiscrimination (that failed to pass).

That allowed the federal government to coerce vaccination while denying it was mandated.

My family and I were treated as second class citizens. My                 son was denied his
first ever birthday invite to a party with his school friends. Due to an indoor play area
requiring the adults to have an experimentally approved gene therapy that did not prevent
transmission.

My parents who live inBHMHHIwere denied the opportunity to visit my youngest son for
three years unless they had an experimentally approved gene therapy that did not prevent
transmission. They were robbed of the ability to bond physically and get to know my son for
3 of the 5 years of my son’s life. 1-4 being crucial bonding years. This is sickening.

We lived under constant fear that something might happen to our children during this period
that could require them to have to go to the hospital, where we as parents would be denied
access or at best only have restricted access to our children while they received needed
care, through mandated covid vaccinations that do not prevent transmission.

The comprehensive AMPS (The Australian Medical Professionals Society) book Too Many
Dead has 470 pages packed with evidence of the excess deaths crisis directly caused by
the government’s mandated jabs and other errors - you can download the PDF for free here
(https://amps.redunion.com.au/too-many-dead ), or buy the paperback.

Excess mortality SHOULD be at record low levels after a pandemic - as the weak and
vulnerable population would have succumbed to the virus. Why do we have two years (and
ongoing) excess mortality since the experimentally approved gene therapy rollout?

The Federal government consented by silence, state level mandates for an experimentally
approved gene therapy which violates human rights, breaches the Nuremberg code and
represents the government assuming it has total power over every individual's body. If this
inquiry does a good job, it should recoil in horror at the very thought of mandated medical
experimentation.

Existing therapies that are known to be safe should NEVER have been banned to
Australians even if the effectiveness was debatable. The banning of Hydroxychloroquine and
Ivermectin was a violation of the rights of Australians to access medical care, a violation of
the doctor-patient relationship. Now that we know that these therapies were at the least
moderately effective, these bans certainly led to deaths.

We were lied to over and over and over. Trust in the government, the medical
establishment, the media and regulators are at zero. It’s hard to believe that the damage
done to this trust can ever be regained. My children (the next generation) are watching.
They are intelligent and proud Australian citizens.
