Crop Life
                 Australia




                                                                                                  Matthew Cossey
                                                                                                  Chief Executive Officer


                                                                                                            ■@croplife.org.au
                                                                                                  * @Matthew_Cossey




Independent Panel
Inquiry to Australia's Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic

By email: COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.gov.au

15 December 2023

To the Independent Panel

Re: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

CropLife Australia (CropLife) is the national peak industry organisation representing the plant science
(registered agricultural chemicals and plant biotechnology innovations) sector in Australia. CropLife
represents the innovators, developers, manufacturers, formulators and suppliers of crop protection
products (organic, synthetic and biological based pesticides) and crop biotechnology seed innovations.

CropLife's membership is made up of both large and small, patent holding and generic, Australian and
International companies and accordingly, CropLife only advocates for policy positions that deliver
whole-of-industry and national benefit. Our focus is, however, specifically on an Australian farming sector
that is internationally competitive through globally leading productivity and sustainability and enable the
most effective protection of the nation's precious biodiversity and environment. Both of which are achieved
through access to world-class technological innovation and products of the plant science sector.

The plant science industry contributes to the nation's agricultural productivity, environmental sustainability
and food security through innovation in plant breeding and pesticides that protect crops against pests,
weeds and disease. More than $31 billion of the value of Australia's agricultural production is directly
attributable to the responsible use of crop protection products (CPPs), while the plant science industry itself
directly employs thousands of people across the country.1




   Deloitte Access Economics, 'Economic Contribution of Crop Protection Products in Australia',
   August 2023, https://www.croplife.org.au/resources/reports/economic-contribution-of-crop-
   protection-products-in-australia/.
                                                                                                   +61 262732733
                                                                                                   croplife.org.au
                                                                                                   Level 1, Maddocks House
                                                                                                   40 Macquarie Street
                                                                                                   Barton ACT2600
                                                                                                   Locked Bag4396
                                                                                                   Kingston ACT 2604
                                                                                                   >F/f@CropLifeOZ
                                                                                                   in/company/croplife-australia
                                                  CropLife ]
                                                           Australia    <



CropLife welcomes the opportunity to provide the Independent Panel with an understanding of how the
COVID-19 responses undertaken by both the Australian Government and respective state governments
impacted on the operations of the plant science industry.

The agriculture sector is one which is characterised by critical production tasks that need to be completed
within specific environmental windows as part of maximising production and optimising operational
costs. These tasks include:

•   The application of herbicides for weed control, particularly pre-emergent herbicides in preparation
    to plant crops.
•   Planting specific varieties of crops to maximise soil moisture and in-season rainfall and to match
    flowering times to frost and heat risk.
•   The application of insecticides and fungicides in crop to manage insect pest and pathogen
    populations that will otherwise devastate yield and quality of food crops.

The importance of undertaking these production tasks in a timely manner is highlighted by the fact that
the top 20 per cent of Australia's grain farmers indicated that timeliness of operations is a key driver of
their grain farming businesses profitability.2 The ability of farm businesses to undertake these
production tasks in a timely fashion requires functional supply chains that are able to deliver agricultural
inputs in a way that fulfils forward orders made by farm businesses and agricultural retailers.

The necessary implementation of public health restrictions as part of the government responses to the
COVID-19 pandemic had the potential to disrupt the ability of these supply chains to facilitate farmers
having access to these essential inputs. The rapid action from the AGMIN forum to ensure that all
sections of the agriculture value chain, including from the front end of our scientific and chemistry testing
labs, right through to the ag supply retail distribution network, were declared essential industries in
March 2020 assisted to maintain continuity of this supply. As a result, the movement of agriculture
related workers across state borders was declared essential and exempted from COVID related state and
territory border closures.

Other concerns that arose as a result of government responses to the COVID-19 pandemic included:

•   An increase in the time taken to gain access to imported crop protection products or constituents
    due to an increase in inspection time at port. Early in the pandemic this saw an increase in
    turnaround time at port from a three-day turnaround to an average of between 10 to 12 days.
•   Restrictions on access to high quality personal protective equipment (PRE) and commercial cleaning
    equipment and supplies placed strain on the ability of the plant science industry to maintain
    operations.

The decision to appoint a Senior Agriculture Industry Engagement Officer for COVID-19 in the initial days
of the COVID-19 pandemic provided an accessible focal point for stakeholder to work with government
to minimise the disruptions of necessary public health restrictions on agriculture.



2
    Paul Blackshaw'Characteristics and habits of Top 20% farm business operators', GRDC Update
    Paper, Grains Research and Development Corporation, 16 February 2018.
Should the Panel have any questions or require further information, please do not hesitate to have the
secretariat contact                      Director - Government and Strategic Affairs via
                          B or
