Name:                Age:H

Summary: I refused to take the Covid Vaccines for reasons given below and as a result at the beginning of 2022 I was not
allowed to return to work. I was initially suspended on paid leave for 6 weeks and then without pay. I used up my long service
leave and was able to take stress leave due to the financial stress the suspension had placed on me. I was able to return to
work in^^^^H- I have since been to the^^^^^^l Industrial Relations Commission where not one of my concerns were

addressed. I have now been given a reprimand and my pay has been deducted by one pay increment for 18 weeks as a
punishment for not conforming to their unethical Covid Vaccine mandate.
I believe there is widespread corruption in the Government and Pharmaceutical industry that has led to crimes against
humanity as I believe the Covid Vaccines have caused many injuries and deaths. If people want to take a voluntary Covid
Jab then that is their choice, but to mandate an experimental expensive Covid Vaccine that did not prevent the spread of the
virus and did not prevent hospitalisation is criminal, especially when there were other cheaper more effective medications
available which were banned.


The information below is part of a response that I sent to the Education Department on the^^^^^^^^addressing my

Show Cause letter threatening to terminate my employment. I have also attached another response that I sent the
           ^Education Department on the after they decided that my decision to refuse to take the Covid Jab was

unreasonable.




I have some very serious concerns about how safe these vaccines are.
(I have attached links in the footnotes that support my reasonable concerns)
Generally, when I purchase and use a product, I often look at the reviews. Unfortunately, the reviews can be biased, so I
often subscribe to CHOICE to get an independent review and that will often influence my decision.
Why hasn't the Queensland Government established an independent Royal Commission to investigate people's concerns
about the safety of the vaccines?
I am being told by the Queensland Government that it is reasonable for me to take an experimental vaccine that has not
gone through medium- and long-term safety clinical trials and they are claiming that it is safe whereas I am hearing a lot of
other people say that the vaccines will permanently damage my immune system and could cause permanent long-term
debilitating injury or even death'. To make things worse, the vaccines don't even work like traditional vaccines and prevent
people from getting the virus." Some people are claiming that you are at greater risk of catching the virus if you are
vaccinated'" because the vaccines cause irreparable damage to the immune system.
In order for me to make an informed medical consent before taking the vaccine, I need to be properly informed about the
safety of these new experimental vaccines. The Queensland government has failed in its duty of care and has not based
their decisions on data from proper medium- and long-term safety clinical trials in order to establish the safety of the
vaccines. Without this data the Queensland government cannot claim that the vaccines are safe and are therefore lying to
me about the vaccine's safety when they claim the vaccines are safe. The Government representatives originally convinced
many people that the vaccines were safe and told people they would prevent people from getting and spreading the Corona
virus and things would get back to normal after they were vaccinated. They lied and therefore I do not trust anything else that
they say about the vaccines. As these experimental RNA modifying vaccines do not prevent people from getting the virus,
like traditional vaccines, that have gone through proper medium- and long-term safety clinical trials, then these experimental
vaccines are being used as treatments. Unfortunately, the government seems to be suppressing the truth about the safety of
these experimental vaccine treatments.
    I was sent this meme with the two rats when the vaccines were first introduced,          Did they give you No. they're still   I know one
                                                                                               the COWD vax     testing it on
    person who has had three friends suddenly die after taking the vaccine and two                     yet?    humans.             other people
    who are aware of at least one person who has died from the vaccines but none                                                   of these
    were recorded as vaccine related deaths. I am also aware of my                    who                                          started
    experiencing extremely painful ongoing blood clotting in his leg after taking the                                              vaccine and
    other people who have had major ongoing health problems after being                                                            vaccinated.
    If the people who are responsible for mandating these vaccines do not start                                                    showing
    more due diligence in regards to the safety of the vaccines and it is shown that many vaccine related injuries have occurred
    then they will find themselves being charged with crimes against humanity. People should not be coerced and bullied in their
    workplace into taking an experimental vaccine with the threat of losing their career that they have spent many years investing
    into.


    In order for me to make an informed decision about taking the vaccines I would like the Queensland government to conduct
    a Royal Commission where an independent, non-political and non-biased commission, that is not in the pockets of the
    vaccine companies, looks at all of the data, not just the biased data that is propagated by the vaccine companies,
    Queensland government and the main stream media. They also need to investigate the claims of the medical experts who
    claim the vaccines were developed during the evil practice of gain of function research'7 where viruses are intentionally
    developed along with a vaccine and released into the population in order to make the vaccine companies a lot of money.
    Many medical scientists claim the vaccines are dangerous and their evidence needs to be heardvviB




                                                                                     What is even more concerning is that these RNA
    modifying vaccinesix use CRISPR gene editing technology where the vaccine companies can slightly change the composition
    of the vaccinex which will slightly alter the RNA without anyone knowing it and Pfizer are already claiming they can change
    the vaccine to adapt to new variants in the viruses. Unfortunately, they appear to be intending to skip the medium- and long­
    term safety clinical trials that are designed to protect the public. This could lead to a catastrophic effect on people's health. If
    these vaccine companies aren't smart enough to develop a vaccine that stops the virus spreading amongst the vaccinated,
    how can we trust them with any of these modified vaccines especially if they are immune from prosecution if things go
    wrong.

In order for me to make an informed decision into whether these vaccines are safe that will enable me to make an
informed medical consent, I would like the Queensland Government to establish a Royal Commission that will look at:
     >      the real number of severe vaccine injuries being caused by the vaccines. (Some people believe surveys and studies
            and VAERS data indicate that it could be as high as 25% of the population)/1
     >      The reason why very safe alternate treatments for the Corona Virus were banned by the TGA in Australia and why the
            government refused to investigate this in parliament. Eg Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine*'. (This stinks of corruption
            as it is common practice to use existing medication to treat viruses until the proper medium- and long-term safety clinical
            trials have been done in order to protect the public*'1.) It is common practice in the medical world that if there is a new
            virus or disease, medical researches start looking at data of people that are taking existing medications for other things
            to see if they are either immune from catching the Covid Virus or whether they have a quicker recovery rate after
            catching the covid virus. This was done but the Government seemed to have ignored the findings in favour of more
            expensive untested Covid Vaccines.
     >      Why some people that are looking through the initial Pfizer trial data, that has just been released, are saying that the
            trial data indicates that the vaccines are dangerous and should never have been given emergency statis approval?*7 xv
 >   Why so many vaccinated people are suddenly dying and getting blood clotting, heart problems and other chronic
     conditions"' and whether the Covid Vaccines are responsible for the increase in S.A.D.S (Sudden Adult Death
     Syndrome) where many more people seem to be unexpectedly dying in highly vaccinated countries"".
 >   Why thousands of physicians and doctors around the world accuse Covid policy makers with “crimes against
     humanity”.""'
 >   Why mandates are being established in schools where children are extremely low risk of suffering adverse reactions
     and low risk of dying.xix
 >   Investigate and scrutinise the “medical studies” that have been conducted that have led to the Government not allowing
     unvaccinated teachers, especially those who have natural immunity, to teach.
 >   Why some medical experts around the world are saying that the vaccines do not           I am trying
     reduce the risk of sickness and hospitalisation? They claim the opposite, that it is      to follow
     the vaccinated who appear to be sicker and hospitalised more often.xx Is the            The Science *
                                                                                             but it keeps *
     government lying again in order to put fear in people to coerce them into taking
                                                                                             leading me k 1
     the experimental vaccines and protect the profits of the vaccine companies? A              back to
     Royal Commission will find out?                                                         The Money *
 >   Why the Government is putting so much trust in the politically biased “medical experts” instead of medium to long term
     clinical trial data, especially when “medical experts” like the US CDC recently had to retract a direction about
     recommending people wear masks to stop the spread of monkey-pox.xxi When they finally realised it was not an air born
     virus, they quietly retracted their advice. (What a bunch of incompetent clowns. Are these the types of politically biased
     “medical experts” the Queensland Government is getting medical advice from?)
 >   Why some scientists are saying that treating people with Remdesivir in our Australian hospitals, increases the death
     rate of acute Corona Virus patients.xxi' They are suggesting that this is being done to intentionally increase the covid
     death ratexxii' to put fear in people so that more people take the vaccines and that will increase the profits of the vaccine
     companies who are immune from prosecution.
 >   Why the human rights commission in Australia condemned the actions of the government in mandating vaccines.xxiv
     They recommended the introduction of a bill of rights to protect against government overreach in Australia.


After the government establishes a Royal Commission to investigate these and other concerns, then I will be able to
make an informed medical decision as to whether I am going to take the risk of taking an experimental vaccine in
order to keep my career as a teacher.
I do not think it is reasonable for the Queensland Government to mandate for me to take an experimental vaccine if they
have failed in following common scientific procedures in ensuring the vaccines had gone through the necessary medium-
and long-term clinical trials to ensure their safety and have failed to investigate the concerns of many citizens in a Royal
Commission in relation to the safety of the vaccines.

I have already caught the Corona Virus and now have natural immunity and in the opinion of many medical experts, natural
immunity is far better than being vaccinatedxxv xxvi. A clinical trial in Australia showed that a combination of Ivermectin,
doxycyline and zinc was very successful in treating people who had caught the Corona Virus and was very successful in
preventing hospitalisation and deathxxvii and I only needed to take the same daily doses over 3 days instead of 10 days as
outlined in the trial and recovered very quickly. I sent an email to the Covid compliance Team, along with a letter from my
doctor informing them that I had caught Covid and recovered and now had natural immunity but they did not respond to my
email.
I am also very concerned that Foetal tissue may have been used in the developing of these vaccinesxxv'''. I believe that using
foetal tissue in the development of vaccines is extremely unethical.
Below are a list of links supporting statements I have made above.
Thankyou for the time and effort you are putting into this extremely important inquiry which I hope will lead to a Royal
Commission.
Kind regards,




' How the COVID-19 Vaccine destroys your immune system - Nexus Newsfeed
" How The Covid Vaccines Do Nothing to Stop The Vaccinated From Getting Or Transmitting Covid - Brightwork Research &
Analysis
    There Is No Basis for the FDA to Authorize Covid Vaccines For Toddlers * Brownstone Institute
iv Flashback: ‘Gain of Function' documentary-America's Frontline Doctors (americasfrontlinedoctors.org)
v Lawyers expose alleged COVID-19 fraud and vaccine danger | Mizzima Myanmar News and Insight
vi Medicine and Science - World Freedom Alliance Australia
w Crimes of Covid Vaccine Maker Pfizer Documented (dmlawfirm.com)
viii 4 Reasons Investors Are Betting Against Moderna | The Motley Fool
ix Gene Therapy: Study finds mRNA COVID Vaccines enter liver and then alter DNA - World Freedom Alliance Australia
x Gene Therapy: Genes As Medicine | Pfizer
8 CDC Insists 'Severe Reactions' to COVID Vaccines Are Rare, But New Survey Proves That Is an Absolute Lie
(thegatewaypundit.com)
     Lies, damn lies and coronavirus | The Spectator Australia
xiii Lies, damn lies and coronavirus | The Spectator Australia
xiv Dr. Naomi Wolf Compared Pfizer C-19                            That's What The Documents Are Showing! [WATCH] | Dr.
Naomi Wolf shared an update of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine documents. Being interviewed by Del Bigtree of The Highwire,
Dr. Wolf had the opportunity to express her opinion about the Pfizer C-19 vaccine documents. In the interview, she
compared the vaccines^^M^^M Telegram Chanel Here: https://t.me/TheTrueDefender “These people knew | The Tea
Party's Front Page. | Slowly, our freedoms are being chipped away with, "We know better..." justification as its hammer and
chisel, (ussanews.com)
xv On What Basis Did Pfizer Claim 95%? * Brownstone Institute
’"i CDC Insists 'Severe Reactions' to COVID Vaccines Are Rare, But New Survey Proves That Is an Absolute Lie
(thegatewaypundit.com)
xvii NZDSOS: Sudden Adult Death Syndrome (SADS) - Why We Are Not Happy - Daily Telegraph NZ
      3,000+ Doctors, Scientists Accuse COVID Policy Makers of ‘Crimes Against Humanity' (humanevents.com)
xix Dr. Mark McDonald: How We Sacrificed Our Children in the Name of COVID Protection | TEASER (rumble.com)
xx Hospitalizations More Likely Among Vaccinated | Armstrong Economics
xxi CDC ups alert level, makes a joke of ‘following the science' on monkeypox (opinion) - silive.com
      Rerndesiyir^nieJDeadly^Side;^^
xxiii H                                                                                                I

xxiv su^i^^^austranar^accinatior^sK^Tetwon^n^annumanngnt^o^u^ ^^^^^^^^^^
xxv CDC: Natural Immunity Offered Stronger Protection Against COVID Than Vaccines During Delta Wave - Foundation for
Economic Education (fee.org)
xxvi Natural immunity offers greater COVID protection than vaccines, study finds (ky3.com)
xxvii Combination Therapy For COVID-19 Based on Ivermectin in an Australian Population (trialsitenews.com)
xxviii Leaked Pfizer Executive Emails Confirm Aborted Fetal Tissue Used in COVID Vaccine Testing | Christian Research
Network
