Submission of evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

I am a concerned member of the public with extensive background in medicine (Doctor) and a
particular interest in the government response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Mechanisms to better target future responses

Firstly, it is imperative to acknowledge that the 'COVID-19 pandemic' was largely based on 'cases'
which were self-diagnosed by members of the public (many even without symptoms) using only a
highly unreliable PCR test. Kary Mullis, the Nobel Prize winning inventor of the PCR test, stated that it
could NOT be used to diagnose disease. And yet this is entirely what the whole 'pandemic' response
was based on.

If the enquiry is to be serious about building public trust in a future disease outbreak - it needs to
recognise that a disease state needs to be accurately defined, and classification of a pandemic needs
to fit the true historical meaning of the term and be based on large numbers of mortalities.

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government

Management of disease outbreaks in populations need to be assessed and carried out at the local
level. Populations will react differently to disease and require targeted treatment. Commonwealth
and even State support should be background advice only.

If we have any value in our education system, we should be able to put faith in our local doctors and
nurses to manage their patients as they see fit. The deceitful demonising by the Commonwealth
Government of highly safe and effective treatments such as ivermectin and hydroxyquinoline was an
embarrassment to our country.

Key health response measures

How long will it be before the real enquiry into COVID-19 vaccination side effects happens?

I now know 7 adolescents with myocarditis and innumerable adults with sudden on set cancers. Not
to mention the sudden unexplained deaths and miscarriages. There is little doubt that these issues
are a direct result of COVID-19 vaccinations.

If the general public were fully informed about the experimental nature of the vaccines and if they
were not coerced with a fear-fuelled media and vaccine mandates, there is no doubt many of these
people would still have their health and their lives.

Any health response measures need to be offered with informed consent without penalty of not
submitting.




Dr R. Taylor
