Covid 19 Response Inquiry
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet

8 January 2024

R.E. Call for submissions to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Sir/Madam,

As per the requirements for submissions to the Covid-19 response inquiry, I wish to introduce myself
and address some of the terms of reference, scope, outlined on your website so as we do not have a
repeat of Australia's poor response to any future pandemics. Please see references to listed High
Court cases, the Australian Immunisation Handbook, stated quotations from public broadcasted
interviews and Work, Health & Safety definitions.

Firstly, my name is                       During the pandemic I was employed as an electrician in a
^^^^Hin WA. I was an interstate traveller, living in NSW. I stayed in WAfor 12 consecutive months
from 2020 to 2021 and a further 4 months in late 2021. Early 2022 I was terminated from my
employer for not having the Covid- 19 vaccines as per the requirements at the time but 3 months
later, in June 2022 was asked to return to my employment in WA. To this day, I will not be told to
undertaken a medical treatment. Reasons will be outlined further in this document and specifically
addressing the scope of the inquiry, are highlighted after the bold text. Fast forward to 2024, had I had
the knowledge back then that I have today then my termination would certainly made managers and
supervisors feel uncomfortable for their role in fulfilling the governments (state and federal) wishes for
a vaccinated workforce. Their actions weren't only illegal and downright dangerous but also
disrespectful. Bearing in mind the huge push for mental health awareness in the workplace prior to
this event, the architects for the vaccine mandates and their           simply lacked any foresight that
they could be attributing to this already deepening crisis.

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and
territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee)
and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

Border closures.

In Australia, we do not have state or territory borders. Since 1901, the five former colonies (NSW, Old,
Tas, SA and Vic) and later on a sixth (WA) formed the Commonwealth of Australia. Their colonial
borders were dropped so as to form one indissoluble Commonwealth of Australia and their borders
(colonial) pushed out to sea. So today, our border forms the continent of Australia.

How is it that the state premiers can close them when they do not exist? What Act of Parliament are
they relying on to fulfil this requirement?

Gratwick v Johnson - 1945 HCA 7-70 CLR; 1945 ALR 167; 105 ER 931.

Under no circumstances shall interstate travel be interrupted and for that matter any travel within the
confines of the Commonwealth of Australia. This ruling above occurred during the second world war
when there was an external threat, be it Japan and Germany. The High Court ruled that restriction of
movement are illegal in this instance. The High Court has ruled on this matter.

Measures to stop the spread of the virus

    •       Masks do no stop the transmission of viruses
The droplets in which viruses transmit are small enough to pass through the gauze from a surgical
mask. The wearing of these masks are equivalent to filling a shopping trolley with sand.
    •        Freedom of movement
There is not a law in place to stop the freedom of movement of a person if they are not labouring
under an infectious disease (exemption of a criminal). In other words, you need to be sick to be either
sent home from work or to be refused service from a merchant.

     •         14 days of isolation, self-isolation etc.
 Again, if you are not sick, you cannot be forced to be isolated. The only exemption to this is if you are
exposed to a listed infectious disease and are displaying symptoms. If this is the case then you must
be assessed by the Chief Health Officer (CHO) within a set time of 72 hours. This is where you can be
isolated, masked etc. I doubt whether the Chief Health Officers of each state performed this duty. This
also fits the legislation where a human biosecurity control order must be signed off the CHO or Health
Minister and issued to an individual that is labouring under a listed infectious disease. I do not believe
any control orders were issued.

Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
health messaging).

Vaccine mandates.

Free and informed consent must be given “voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion and
manipulation”. Section 2.1.3 Australian Immunisation Handbook.

How can one obtain a vaccination, that they don't want especially when there is the threat of
employment termination for refusal? If I approach a medical practitioner and explain my situation the
vaccination or medical procedure cannot take place as I have not provided my informed consent. If
the medical practitioner proceeds with the vaccination against my will, then that forms an assault. The
idea of a vaccination mandate is a complete oxymoron.

Informed consent. Rogers v Whitaker - 1992 HCA 58 - 175 CLR 479;23 NSWLR 600; 109 ALR 625

Vaccine mandates are illegal. The High Court has ruled on this matter.

These vaccines form part of a trial, informed consent must be granted

In February 2021 the former federal minister for health and aged care the Hon. Greg Hunt stated in an
interview with^^^^^^^|on Insiders “The world is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest
global vaccination trial ever, and we will have an enormous amount of data”.

Informed consent forms the cornerstone of a trial. As stated above in my previous paragraph the
patient must undertake this procedure voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion and
manipulation.

Was informed consent obtained in all settings? Vaccination clinics, drive through clinics, shopping
centres, pop up clinics etc. It's highly unlikely informed consent was ever obtained.

Doctors who oppose the vaccines have been punished

In many cases where a medical practitioner has exercised their professional opinion and this hasn't
fallen in line with the government's narrative, they have either been overruled, threatened or
deregistered. In one such personal case that I am aware of               lady obtained a vaccine
exemption from her GP. This was overruled by a HR department on two separate occasions, even
after an adverse event. She was also admitted to hospital on those two occasionswithan^^^^H
                            emergency doctors expressed the concern of potential
thought we lived in a country where we respected one another's concerns and opinions?
As with all contracts in this country, you as an individual can always engage with a differing medical
opinion otherwise known as a second opinion. This forms freedom of choice. Since when did we as a
country withdraw this option? This is a national disgrace.

Covid-19 in the workplace

A complicated scenario with a virus, that workplaces could be harbouring a potential work, health and
safety issue. This is, that all workplaces are a Covid-19 hazard in the workplace. And some managers
and CEO's expressed some concern as this does fit the definition of a hazard which is “a thing or
situation that can cause injury, harm or damage to personnel and/or property”. But there is a couple of
things wrong with this particular hazard. Firstly, the hazard must be present in the workplace so then
the workers and management can implement a suitable control in place to mitigate the hazard. For
example, in a workshop where a boilermaker is grinding steel and making lots of noise the hazard is
the noise. This can cause short- and long-term hearing loss. A control for this work is wearing hearing
protection. There is no point in making the office staff that are located in a different building well away
from the workshop area, to wear hearing protection in the office. This hazard must exist in the
workplace, or certain work that is generated must be able to create a hazard. How does vaccination fit
as a control measure for entry into the workplace when the workplace doesn't have any Covid-19
present? Vaccination cannot be a control measure for many reasons as I’ve outlined above.

National Federation of Independent Business v. Dept of Labor, Occupational Safety & Health
Administration
Ohio v. Dept of Labor, Occupational Safety & Health Administration, 595 U.S. (2022)

Whenever work is carried out, a risk assessment must be conducted. This is written in WH&S
legislation. In many workplaces this document failed to be delivered to the workplace and for the
workers to review and sign.

As I am limited to three pages, I have only highlighted what I deem as important. I have extended my
concerns to state and federal ministers post the Covid- 19 era. This has been received with very
disappointing outcomes. At this stage, I have not received any satisfactory responses. In-fact none of
my questions have been answered. It has got to the point where the body of my responses have led
to replies from these ministers promoting the vaccines.

Generally speaking, I'm not holding out for any remedies from this inquiry. My confidence in
government is at an all-time low as I feel as though the majority of ministers do not care about their
constituents. We can mostly see this filter out onto the pavements and walkways of the streets with
the everyday frustrations of citizens and poor workplace cultures readily on display. Simple references
to case law should be more than enough to stop unlawful activities from our MP's but clearly this is
not the case.

My only hope is that Australians and other populations around the world can put an abrupt stop to this
rubbish by simply not complying to any government requests.

Yours sincerely,
