Submission to the CO VID-19 Response Inquiry
The response of Australia's federal and state governments to the China Virus was a
case of shocking mismanagement and malfeasance. I know, I know, only the
Commonwealth Government's response is in the terms of reference. But this is
clearly ridiculous. The disastrous COVID response calls for a Royal Commission
covering all levels of government and bureaucracy, as well as legal and medical
institutions, the media, and big business. State government decisions had, if anything,
a greater impact than those of the Commonwealth. We've had Royal Commissions
for National Natural Disaster Arrangements, Aged Care Quality and Safety, and the
Robodebt Scheme. Measured by their impact on the country as a whole, these are to
the COVID                                                               Of course the
reason the terms of reference are restricted to the Commonwealth is that the present
Labor federal government doesn't want to implicate its state Labor mates, and wants
to pin the blame for any failures on the (admittedly appalling) Morrison government.
And the reason we aren't yet having a Royal Commission is that most of those who
are in power are on the record supporting the disastrous policies, or calling for even
crazier ones, and are protecting themselves.
During COVID, the authorities showed a complete disregard for the basic rights and
freedoms of Australians. I'm not talking about silly latter-day indulgences like the
right to health care or education. I'm talking about the most ancient and fundamental
freedoms known to the English-speaking peoples: freedom of movement, freedom of
association, freedom of speech, and freedom from cruel and unusual punishments,
like being fired for refusing a vaccine, let alone one that didn't, contrary to incessant
government propaganda, stop infection or transmission. The external borders were
slammed shut, stranding many Australians outside, and inside, the country. State
borders were closed in violation of section 92 of the Constitution. Citizens were
ordered to stay at home, and/or not venture outside of certain zones, on pain of
punishing fines, intermittently for months and even years on end. They were
ordered to wear utterly pointless self-effacing masks among many other indignities,
physically isolated from one another, and arrested, beaten, and confined for
exercising their right to protest. A police state was established in Australia, complete
with masked thugs dressed in black using truncheons and even rubber bullets
against citizens.
Freedom of speech was curtailed in two major ways which worsened the pandemic
response. Firstly, medical staff were explicitly threatened by AHPRA and ATAGI
with career-destroying disqualifications if they spoke the truth by contradicting the
official advice on such things as the COVID vaccines, ivermectin, and
hydroxychloroquine. Secondly, the Commonwealth colluded with Big Tech
companies in the US to suppress Australian opinion expressed online, including that
of a federal member of parliament.
Give us a Royal Commission!
