                                                                                                    1


                       COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Submission by Michelle Stanvic DHIthSc (Naturopathy) RN MPallCAgedCare

I am a Registered Nurse of 20 years and my expertise is primarily in the field of geriatric
nursing. I have a Master's degree by research in Palliative care /Aged care and I am an
accredited Immuniser having completed the National Immunisation Program for Healthcare
Practitioners many years ago.

I have been unable to work as an RN since COVID-19 vaccinations, despite being
experimental, were mandated in 2021. Even after the mandates were lifted by the NSW
government on 30 November 2022, I have still not been able to find employment due to
COVID-19 vaccinations being used as a requirement for employment by NSW Health and
the private sector. As an RN I have had all of the vaccinations required to practice. Those
traditional vaccines have been used for decades and have an excellent safety record and
proven efficacy. COVID-19-19 medications do not, by the fact they are new and are
experimental.

As a healthcare professional who understands the importance of vaccines as well as
understanding the importance of risk analysis and informed consent requirements. I could
not in good conscience participate in administering or participating in this global experiment.

The reason is that there was little information provided to healthcare professionals regarding
the risk of adverse events from the onset. AHPRA warned professionals that we were not
allowed to engage in any discussions publicly that would be perceived as being negative.
Thus based on my code of conduct and my research background I did not want to run the
risk of harming any patient. And most importantly I did not want to be harmed, and the risks
were too high that this could occur.

I truly enjoyed caring for residents and patients and I have a stellar record in care delivery. I
am devastated at the increase in adverse events and harm that has come to previously
healthy Australians. The effects of the government mandates and ongoing requirements to
have taken the experimental COVID-19-19 drugs means I have lost everything I have
worked for. It has been devastating and I have received NO SUPPORT.

My entire life and all of the work I have done has been ruined.

The response measures such as lockdowns, and the use of PCR and RAT testing were
undertaken in the most inhumane way and violated basic human rights. People were denied
treatment and urgent and life-saving procedures. I have been informed by friends and family
members that patients undergoing treatments for preexisting medical conditions like cancer
were forced into taking COVID treatments despite being very unwell and undergoing
chemotherapy which already has a devastating effect on immune systems. Hospital patients
and residential aged care residents were also coerced into taking these experimental drugs
and denied the right to see their family and loved ones for over 6 months. People in the end
stage of life were denied time with family - this is unacceptable, inhumane, and goes against
every ethical guideline and patient rights. The use of RAT testing is still ongoing in aged care
as well as for visitors. Masks are still being mandated by aged care providers even in the
community. This needs to stop now.
                                                                                              2


There is an Australia-wide shortage of nursing staff and despite being a highly experienced
Registered Nurse I am unable to obtain employment because all health care providers
require staff to have taken a minimum of 2 Covid vaccinations despite these drugs being
experimental. The healthcare industry is suffering as a result, particularly aged services,
both residential aged care and the community. There is a lot of work but due to the actions of
those responsible in mandating the experimental drugs, that is now the norm. IT IS NOT
NORMAL. It is inexcusable and I have been greatly harmed as a result.


Because of the actions of the state Government, NSW Health, and AHPRA that enforced
taking experimental drugs, I lost my ability to work as a Registered Nurse. This resulted in
me having to use my savings as I was unable to live on 12000 per year allocated to me from
Centrelink for two years. It was only in February 2023 that I was able to get a casual job as a
Support Worker, as this role did not require me to take the experimental drugs on offer. I am
way overqualified for this job, I eke out an existence and I still have to rely on my savings
which took 20 years to accumulate. I have still not been able to obtain a job despite 7 years
at university and 20 years of experience as a Registered Nurse. The lack of financial support
has decimated my substantial savings, which were supposed to be used to purchase a
house. I am now heading for complete financial ruination. I am devastated and now suffer
from depression, anxiety, and ongoing chronic stress which has taken a toll on my overall
health.


I was a student at ^^^^^^^^^^vhen the lockdowns began and this meant I was
unable to undertake any of the clinical components to complete the degree promptly. The
university                           f°r not taking experiential drugs and I was not allowed to
attend campus until 2022. This interfered greatly with my studies and resulted in me making
a series of formal complaints^^^^^^^^^^^^^l^^H^^^H^^^^^^^H
                                        I withdrew from my studies as a result and never
completed my degree. As a result of not being able to work my HECS debt has risen
exceptionally and I now have a HECS debt of over SOK and growing due to the interest
being applied but I am unable to make any payments because I only earned under 15K in
2021 and 2022 and only about 25k in 2023. This is all due to being locked out of working in
my field of expertise because I have refused to take experimental drugs. I am unlikely to
ever be able to pay this accumulating debt because I don't earn enough.


The way older people and their families have been treated due to measures undertaken by
state governments and NSW health was deplorable. I have worked with older people for
around 10 years. The lockdown measures were barbaric, and unnecessary and resulted in
psychological harm to older people and their families. Separating people and coercing
people into taking experimental drugs is unlawful. Forcing staff to take experimental drugs to
keep their jobs is also unlawful. The actions of those involved in the implementation of
forcing staff to take an experimental drug or lose their job is unacceptable and contravenes
human rights and the right to make a living.


The Australian Human Rights Commission is a signatory to the International Covenant on
Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights among many other treaties. Under this treaty, I have a
right to work.
                                                                                           3


ICESCR Article 6 states:




I was then and remain in disbelief, that my right to bodily autonomy and my decision to not
participate nor administer any experimental drugs has been used against me, and that I
have been punished because I simply said no. As a Health Care Professional with extensive
education and experience, I have an excellent understanding of ethics in research as well as
the complex care needs of patients in end-of-life. I cannot believe that our supposedly
protected rights have been used against us and continue to do so.

There have been violations broken due to the government's response in managing
COVID-19 including but not limited to informed consent laws, privacy laws, employment
laws, discrimination laws, and so forth.

I call upon the government and its agencies such as the Fair Work Commission and the
Australian Human Rights Commission to end the use of experimental COVID-19 drugs as a
requirement for working. The impact of mandating these along with integrating them into
employment law is unacceptable and must stop now. The impact and ramifications affect
every aspect of life.


                    am now worse off than I have ever been, yet I paid into our system and I
should be able to access and participate in society as I formerly did. I cannot impress upon
you, how detrimental the actions of the government have been, and now employers are
doing the same thing. THIS MUST STOP NOW.


Michelle Stanvic
4
