        A SUBMISSION TO THE COVID 19 RESPONSE INQUIRY.
Submitted b




With respect I would like to submit the following questions and suggestions for the future for
consideration by the Response Inquiry Panel.
    1. By what democratic or constitutional process was the statement made by the Prime
       Minister, Scott Morrison on 19 August 2020, that mandatory vaccination would not
       be introduced, so completely overridden? In future - Can we depend on a prime
       ministerial guarantee?

   2. What scientific logic was used in relation to enforcing mandatory vaccination which
      had never been tested for, nor was effective in, stopping transmission of infection
      between one individual and another? In future - Can we use all the science in relation
      to mandating anything?


   3. Why was the Australian population misinformed by the intentional use of the term
      “vaccine” applied to something which was clearly an “experimental gene therapy
      injection”? In future - Can we call a rose, a rose?

   4. What testing was done by the appropriate Australian regulatory authority [the
      therapeutic goods administration] in relation to the safety and effectiveness of the
      Covid 19 vaccines which were unleashed on the Australian population? In future -
      Can we actually do our own testing to determine consistency, effectiveness and safety
      of each batch of product to be administered?


   5. Why were vaccines not withdrawn when clear and obvious signals in relation to
      serious side effects were clearly evident from as early as 2020? In this question I am
      specifically referring to all cardiovascular, Neurological and reproductive side effects
      which have been noted in numerous studies and indeed were evident in Pfizer’s own
      initial trial as demonstrated in the trial papers which were eventually released - not to
      mention the 1223 individuals who died during the course of the trial involving 44,000
      people. In future - Can we accurately track adverse events and remove dangerous
      products ASAP.


   6. Where was the Australian government response in relation to the information revealed
      in the Pfizer documents (which Pfizer attempted to withhold for 75 years) and called
      for under court order in the United States? In future - Can we independently review
      all trial documentation in relation to pharmaceutical products before releasing them
      on the public?
7. Why was vaccination recommended for pregnant women when no testing had been
   done in relation to their safety profile for pregnant women, not to mention their
   unborn babies? In future - Can we ensure the safety of the targeted demographic?

8. Why was vaccination recommended for children who had a fatality rate of virtually
   zero. In future - Can we ensure the safety of the targeted demographic?

9. Why was no consideration given to the benefits of natural infection resulting in
   natural immunity to the entire virus rather than a selected protein component. In
   future - Can we consider whether natural immunity may actually be advantageous
   and superior to attempting synthetic immunity?


10. Why was the Australian population completely denied access to safe and effective
    treatment for Covid 19 infection by the use of existing medications which were
    known to be extremely safe and effective not to mention cheap and readily available
    until they were banned? Specifically, I speak of Hydroxychloroquine, Ivermectin,
    Azithromycin, Fluvoxamine and Monoclonal antibodies. (Outcomes after early
    treatment with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin: An analysis of a database of
    30,423 COVID-19 patients) In future - Can we make use of existing tried and tested
    and infinitely cheaper treatment products and regimes?


11. Why were the 16 registered professions under AHPRA effectively placed under a gag
    order (in fear of deregistration) in relation to informing their patients about the risks
    and benefits associated with Covid 19 injections forced upon the Australian public?
    In future - Can we keep the government out of the confidential consultation between
    the patient and the healthcare provider?


12. Whatever happened to “my body my choice” and the need for informed consent in
    relation to undergoing a medical procedure. In future - Can we reinstate an
    individual’s right to determine what is done to their own body?

13. There is no science in relation to surgical masks preventing the spread of respiratory
    viral infection and we have known this for decades. The holes in the mask are 600
    microns in diameter and the virus is five microns in diameter.
                  So why were we ordered to wear them? In future - Can we make
    requests of the public that are actually based on science rather than appearance?


14. Why was the PCR test used as a diagnostic indicator for COVID 19 infection when it
    is known to have a 97% false positive rate (and can’t tell the difference between
    COVID 19 and any other coronavirus), particularly at 40 plus cycle threshold rates?
       In future - Can we utilize testing procedures with solid sensitivity and specificity to
       detecting the relevant pathogen?

    15. Why wasn’t the specific test for Covid 19, developed by Irene Bosch [from Harvard
        University] not adopted instead of the PCR test? Might it be because it would have
        demonstrated the actual infection rate as being a fraction of what was being reported?
       In future - Can we Use a test like hers - one that works?

Thank you for considering my submission and I sincerely hope that the issues I have raised
will be reviewed by the Covid 19 Response Inquiry Panel.
Sincerely
