Submission and evidence to the covid-19 response inquiry.                 December 2023

A Royal Commission must occur to investigate the crimes against humanity following the unlawful
and negligent behaviour of government authorities, politicians, medical professionals, medical
companies, media outlets, celebrities, and other public influencers during the covid-19 response.
The following items must be addressed:

    • Illegal mandates locking people in their own homes, forcing people to wear ineffective and
     absurd items on their face, forcing people to take unnecessary and harmful vaccines, forcing
     people to be separated by 6 feet or more, force closure of small businesses, limiting people's
     free right to congregate, limiting people's free right to exercise, restricting people right to
     travel freely, and many other violations of basic human rights.
    • Censorship of free speech on media (including social media) which discusses, or even
     mentions, the word 'vaccine'. Removal of entire posts, videos, podcasts is ongoing to this day.
     Public discussion of the safety or efficacy of vaccines is prohibited.
    • The targeting, intimidation, and arrest of individuals by police and government authorities,
     including pregnant women, who opposed mandates or any other forms of government control
     and coercion.
    • Scaremongering and exaggeration by media, news channels, government advertising,
     politicians, celebrities, and other public influencers as to the possible dangers of covid-19.
    • Transporting patients who showed signs of illness out of hospitals and locking them in nursing
     homes with vulnerable, but otherwise healthy, elderly people. This single government
     measure, whether carried out with deliberate intention to cause mass suffering, through
     negligence, or otherwise, undoubtedly spread the covid-19 disease, or some other flu like
     virus, much further causing countless unnecessary deaths and trauma to the most vulnerable
     of society. Opposing these measures resulted in targeting, intimidation, and illegal arrests by
     government authorities.
    • Dereliction of duty by nursing and medical staff who decided to perform and publish 'tik tok'
     dance videos in the midst of a pandemic, or other flu like disease.
    • Isolating vulnerable people away from their family and friends for years on end in draconian
     institutions whilst nursing staff instilled a climate of fear, wearing unnecessary and
     intimidating Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and following illegal mandates on threat of
     being forced out of employment, targeted, or arrested.
    • Implementing and forcing the use of harmful 'end of life' drugs such as midazolam, and
     harmful procedures such as forced breathing machines, on vulnerable patients if they tested
     positive to covid-19, exasperating the effects of covid-19 or any other flu like disease.
    • Suppression of inexpensive, tested, proven, and long-standing remedies, for covid-19 and
     other flu like diseases, with few, if any side effects or adverse reactions. This includes
     hydroxychloroquine and vitamin D.
    • Failure of government authorities, politicians, or medical professionals to promote healthy
     practices such as exercising, eating well, getting sunlight exposure, breathing fresh air,
     socialising, and having a positive mindset. In fact, all such aforementioned entities actively
     promoted the exact opposite to a healthy lifestyle and went out of their way to instil fear and
     dread in people in a sinister planned and coordinated way whether it be through deliberate
     intent to cause harm and mass suffering, negligence, ineptitude, or for other unclear reasons.
    • Government authorities and politicians listening to and acting on advice from corrupt,
     unelected, international corporations including the World Health Organisation,




                                              Unofficial
                     United Nations, International Monetary Fund,
                World Trade Organisation, Food and Drug Administration, and other such
    entities.
• Corrupt procurement of vaccines, personal protective equipment, medical equipment, and
 other items by government authorities, politicians, and corporations.
• Misrepresentation of vaccines as being 'safe and effective' when they were documented as
 carrying severe adverse reactions (including death) by the Therapeutical Goods Administration
 (TGA), failed to stop transmission of covid-19, and failed to stop people from acquiring covid-
 19, or any other pathogens.
•         Silencing, oppression, and shutting down of doctors by APHRA and ATAGI.
• Failure by APHRA and ATAGI to respond to complaints, concerns, or feedback from the
 general public or listen to, or act, on advice or research from ethical medical professionals
 who stood up and spoke truth by questioning the validity of the covid-19 'pandemic' response
 and the harmful vaccines.
• Censorship and targeting of ethical medical doctors and medical professionals who stood up
 and spoke truth about the inappropriate covid-19 government response and harmful vaccines.
• Failure to investigate, prosecute, or otherwise discipline doctors and other medical
 professionals who refused to issue vaccine exemptions to people who had suffered vaccine
 injuries.
• Failure of doctors, nursing staff, or other medical professionals to provide safety data or ask
 for informed consent from patients prior to inoculating them with harmful vaccines.
• Failure of doctors, nursing staff, and other medical professionals to acknowledge, or show any
 remorse, that people may have been injured by covid-19 vaccines.
• Failing of media, government authorities, and politicians to acknowledge the harms or show
 any remorse caused by covid-19 vaccines, apologise for their actions, or admit they may have
 acted in error.
• Mandating that for people who wish to remain employed and earn a living wage to first be
 poisoned by an experimental vaccine and then registering their own private medical
 information, including vaccination status, with corrupt government institutions such as
 Medicare and Centrelink. These institutions have repeatedly breached their own privacy
 policies by the leaking, either accidental or otherwise, of private and confidential patient
 information.
• Police brutality against unarmed, peaceful demonstrators who opposed illegal mandates and
 loss of basic human rights including freedom of speech.
• Illegal police roadblocks placed on interstate borders restricting free movement of travel and
 issuing illegal fines to people who attempted to cross borders without a valid 'covid pass'.
•        Denial of entry to businesses and services without presenting a 'covid pass'.
• Mandatory covid testing, requiring the insertion of medical equipment into bodily orifices and
  the sampling, and storing of genetic information including DNA, for the issuance of a 'covid
  pass'.
• Establishment of 'quarantine zones' and tracking the movements of people and 'covid positive
  status' through their 'covid pass'.
• Complete lack of acknowledgement or public discussion of the sudden increase in mortality
  rates across Australia and the rest of the world after the implementation of forced, harmful
  vaccines on the population.
• Complete lack of acknowledgement or public discussion of the completely normal, steady
  mortality rate during the covid-19, or other flu like disease, "pandemic' of late 2019 and 2020.




                                         Unofficial
These crimes against humanity, committed and perpetuated, by government authorities, politicians,
medical professionals, medical companies, media outlets, celebrities and other public influencers
must be exposed and those found guilty of promoting the inoculation of people with known harmful
substances, or inoculating people with known harmful substances, and denial of basic human rights
including freedom of speech, must be prosecuted and sentenced accordingly. Justice must be served
to everyone harmed by this covid-19 response.




                                           Unofficial
