To Whom it may Concern,



I am writing in response the COVID-19 response enquiry. I would personally like to express the effect
the response has had on Broader health and social supports, Governance, including roles and
responsibilities, Key health response measures and Mechanisms to better target future responses to
the needs of a particular population.



Broader health and social supports.

The response to COVID-19 via mandatory vaccination was detrimental to me. I was denied the
opportunity to continue to work in chosen profession due to mandating of an untested vaccine. This
has had an enormous impact on my mental health and wellbeing. I went from being in a stable
career that I had worked incredibly hard to achieve. Which enabled me to help my daughter with her
children, who were very vulnerable at the time and needed my financial and emotional assistance. To
being in a position that I had little time, energy or money to continue my support. When my
daughter needed me to provide meals, nappies, Panadol or formula for the children I had always
been able to help. I was no longer able to provide assistance as my career was destroyed. This was
through no fault of my own. I felt discriminated against for choosing to make decision that was right
for my body. I feel that there should have been more support for people who chose not to vaccinate.
We should not have been discriminated against. The broader communities health was not at risk by
my choice not to take an untested, experimental vaccine into my body. There should have been more
focus on supporting choice, instead of supporting coercion.



Governance, including roles and responsibilities

The only person that has a right to govern my body is me. The inquiry needs to highlight that my
body is mine alone no government should have the right to tell me what I must put in it to be
allowed to continue my meaningful contribution to society. The governments role had far to deeply
reaching power and not enough care for individual needs of bodily autonomy. This led to
ostracization and associated mental health issues. This was a direct result of governing bodies not
supporting my right to bodily autonomy. I was coerced by my boss to try and take the vaccine and
this eroded my bodily autonomy. I was asked into the bosses office and advised that she personally
would make sure that nothing bad happened to me if I took the vaccine. I was backed into a corner
and had to defend my choices to someone who had no right to ask about my medical choices.



Key health response measures

The implementation of health response measures needs to be investigated by the enquiry. The
response measures were unsuccessful as they never 'flattened the curve' or fulfilled any of the
predictions of success. Their basis was unfounded. The implementation of these response measures
caused my vulnerable grandchildren to have limited access to my support, as when I was dismissed
from my position of employment and was locked down I my grandchildren suffered. They visited me
twice a week as their home life was full of neglect from their mother who was suffering her own
                      The support that I was no longer able to give them has caused me great
distress. Not only was I locked down away from them, I was also in a less financially stable position to
assist them with food and formula. My grandchildren weren't the only people who I was locked away
from. I went to the gym on a weekly basis. It has helped me through some fairly difficult situations.
My gym was closed, my touch footy competition was stopped, my ability to work out and stay social
was denied. The gym and touch footy which provided me social connection, emotional regulation,
improved my mental capacity and physical health. Research shows that team sport and physical
activity promote wellbeing. I was very angry. I spent days unable to function. I missed my
grandchildren and I missed staying active. I started drinking more and spent hours crying in
frustration.
