Covid-19 Response Inquiry

Dear COVID INQUIRY,

I am a concerned Australian who doesn't really know a lot about a lot of things, but I am
concerned that this inquiry becomes aware that more people are concerned about the
inquiry and like me feel unable to verbalise our concerns.

I only found out about the inquiry on Monday December 11, and I only have until Friday
December 15 to submit it. Do you really want to know if people are concerned?

I have read, it seems a lot me, about the inquiry and how to make a submission. A lot for
me would only be a thimble full if that, for everyone else who tries to submit something
here.

Nonetheless, there are some people, I pray more than I imagine, who love the LORD and
have a competent understanding of this COVID inquiry thing and are concerned enough
and able enough to speak up.

I am not presently one of those people. I listen to people like the Canberra Declaration
(CD) and ACL. I am concerned about these things but I think speaking up is beyond me.

Two of the things CD said were, "The most important thing is that you voice your concerns
and keep things simple and concise." and "Writing a submission is important. If only a few
people raise their concerns, it communicates that the issue is not essential."

I find it very hard to express my concerns in any detail other than to confess all this
political mumbo jumbo, is beyond me. But I listen to and share many of the same concerns
of other people I know who ultimately believe that Jesus The Christ is the only real answer
to every mess in this life.

Those people may be making submissions but as to how they word them, I don't know. I
trust their judgements and therefore desire to try and make it known to this inquiry how
some people think about this issue and how important it is to us that it be looked into
further and not just swept under under the carpet.

I will probably submit something like I just wrote to you if I don't find something else to
say.

I didn't or rather I gave up trying to make a proper submission but I sent this didn't I and I
pray that this inquiry would somehow do their work to the best of their ability and even
more.

These are very challenging times we are living in today.

Bless you in Jesus name.
