Submission re Covid 19 Mandates and their consequences.

I was a registered nurse                 experience, working in a
rural aged care /acute setting in a grade five role.
 I was sacked in November 2021 as I was not able to give
informed consent to an untested, trial “vaccine”.(which
contained ingredients such as monkey DNA, aborted foetal
lung cells,metals,and many other toxic ingredients,untested
MRNA technology.)Serious Side effects such as stroke, clots,
Pericarditis, Myocarditis ,Neurological disorders,Autoimmune
diseases, cancer and others were not something I was
prepared to risk.
     I could not and still am unable to comprehend that a trial
drug could be forced onto the whole population. Fear of job
and income losses and emotional blackmail “ you could kill
your grandparents”is the most blatant form of coercion and
bullying I have ever experienced. Informed consent was not
provided, as literature provided by workplace ^^|was not
comprehensive and Dr’s told by government to parrott that
they were safe and effective- Both these statements have
been proven to be lies.
   I am still unable to return to my profession and have to sit
back and watch health facilities deteriorate in their standards
of care, due to huge staff shortages. Other states have
allowed unvaccinated staff to return to work! Not Victoria,
surely mandates should be the same in all states as this was
“a global pandemic”. There is no rationale for individual states
and workplaces to implement their own rules in regards to
vaccination status. Breach of privacy due to having to provide
vaccine status.

  • Natural immunity is proven to be the best defence
    against infection.
  • Forcing trial vaccines is not only unconstitutional and a
    violation of human rights. The Geneva convention and
    Nuremberg code. Everyone has the right to choose their
    own bodily autonomy.
  • Locking people up, restricting movements and
    discriminating against people making an informed health
    choice is the most abhorrent thing I have experienced in
    my
  • Withholding and not allowing use of previously tried
    medications- Ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, zinc,
    vitamin c, quercetin and doxycycline even as a
    control/comparison method was disgraceful.
  • Doctors and nurses and other employees were
    threatened and sacked if they questioned the
    government's directions or expressed concerns re safety
    of trial medication! This is unconstitutional and
    unconscionable.
  • No other forms of treatments were tried during the
    “pandemic”. No trial data has been released!
  • Government not recognising sever side effects deaths
    and injury which have resulted from this trial vaccine.
    >35,000 excess deaths in the past 18 months. (far more
    than deaths from covid). Very little monetary
    compensation offered/ available to those suffering
  vaccine side effects/illness/deaths - this must be
  improved!
• Government has lacked transparency.
• I personally have lost my income and profession.
• I have been discriminated against, denied the right of
  free moment, right to work , right to make my own
  informed health decisions.
• I have lost friends who do not agree with my personal
  health decisions.
• I have and still am suffering anger, depression, alienation
  as a result of these mandates.
• We were forced to wear masks unnecessarily as these
  did not stop transmission of covid (as printed on the
  boxes) and caused further alienation and diminished
  oxygen supply.
• Covid death numbers were enhanced and monetary
  incentives given to doctors who wrote covid 19 as cause
  of death. Totally unreliable data.
• I was denied access to visit m                 who was in
  residential care. He suffered
  This caused both of us undue stress and emotional pain.
  He died as a result of poor care which I blame decreased
  staff numbers and staff experience for.
• He has died and I cannot ever have that time with him
  and have been denied memories and experiences with
  him.
• Dr              produced (covax 19) a safe and effective
  protein based vaccine - not tried/Trialled in Australia,
  disgraceful. This would have been a chance for Australia
  to lead the world in a safe vaccination program.
• Establishing a             factory in Australia, known to be
  ineffective and has more side effects than any other drug
  ever produced!! A royal commission is urgently required
  to bring to light why decisions were made and why
  mandates were enforced with no long term or trial data
  being released?
• The force used by police against passive protesters
  (rubber bullets, man handling and arrest) was abhorrent
  and so unaustralian. I hope to never see this again.
• The financial devastation, emotional pain and suffering
  and loss of ability to work has crippled Victoria and
  Australia.
• The reaction to another strain of flu was an overreaction
  and only those with chronic severe illness were at risk.
• Correct figures of numbers of death directly resulting
  from Covid and resulting from Covid 19 vaccine injuries
  need to be made public.
• No trial drug should ever be allowed to be forced on
  anyone ever again like it has been. My dismay and
  despair about the vaccine mandates will stay with me for
  the rest of my life. I cannot forgive the powers in charge
  for this destruction of Australians' way of life.
