SCHOOL OF LAW                                                                  MACQUARIE
Faculty of Arts
                                                                              University



                                                                                 31 January 2024

COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Commonwealth Government




Dear Panel,

This submission relates to the application of NSW stay at home orders to high density
apartments, which house almost a quarter of the population of Sydney. I am mindful of the
fact that public health orders fall within state powers, but as the Inquiry terms of reference
include the ‘responsibilities of state and territory governments’ I thought my submission may
fall within your remit. There has also been no inquiry in NSW, which is unfortunate, as we
need to avoid the repetition of mistakes made during COVID lockdowns.
My expertise relates to land, which was the trigger for almost all lockdowns. That is, public
health orders rarely applied directly to individuals (with the exception of those who were
COVID positive or a close contact), but rather applied to populations with reference to the
land on which they were present - sections of the state, local government areas, publicly
accessible property and residential properties. Consequently, an accurate legal understanding
of categories of land was necessary for the public health orders to be effective and rational. In
the case of high density and master planned housing, a proper understanding of strata and
community title was necessary. Unfortunately, that understanding was almost completely
absent from the NSW public health orders making them ineffective and irrational in relation
to apartment buildings and master planned estates. In the worst instances, the public health
orders constituted serious violations of the rule of law. As stay at home orders are a necessary
and justifiable tool for managing pandemics, it is essential that governments draft public
health orders that properly account for all kinds of homes, including the high density
apartments that house increasing numbers of Australians.
By way of background, I am a professor in the Law School at Macquarie University and on
the executive of the research group, Smart Green Cities. I am the author of 'trata Title
Property Rights: Private governance of multi-owned properties (Routledge 2017), as well as
multiple academic articles on land.11 have been engaged by governments in Australia and
overseas to advise on their laws in relation to high density development. I am a long-term
Academic Fellow of the Australasian College of Strata Lawyers, the peak industry body for


1 See Cathy Sherry - Research Outputs — Macquarie University (mq.edu.au)
Macquarie University
NSW 2109 Australia                                                 E: ■


ABN 90 952 801 237 | CRICOS Provider 00002J
                                                                   IQ MACQUARIE
                                                                           University
                                                                           SYDN EY-AUSTRALIA




lawyers working in strata industry and am currently a member of the Strata and Building
Consumer Roundtable, chaired by the NSW Building Commissioner, David Chandler.
The substance of my submission is contained in the article attached: C Sherry, ‘All about the
land: the (mis)application of public health orders to strata schemes during the Delta variant
COVID-19 outbreak in Sydney, Australia’, (2023) 45(2) Sydney Law Review 279-303. This is
a peer reviewed article.
I wish you the very best of luck with the Inquiry.

Yours sincerely,




Professor Cathy Sherry

Macquarie Law School, Centre for Environmental Law and Smart Green Cities
