       Commonwealth Government Covid-19
              Response Inquiry
Submission made by Ian Ernest Brighthope
        My name is Ian Ernest Brighthope. I graduated in medicine and surgery from Monash University in
1974. In 1978 I established a medical practice in Hampton, Victoria and subsequently 3 other treatment
centres in Melbourne. In 1982 I initiated and became a co-founder and the founding president of the
Australasian College of Nutritional and Environmental Medicine (ACNEM). I remained as president for the
subsequent 26 years. I remain its official ambassador.

         The College has continued to train medical practitioners in Nutritional and Environmental Medicine
to Fellowship standard for the past 41 years. The training involves the scientifically based use of diet,
nutrition and ‘nutraceuticals’ (vitamins, minerals, amino acids, plant based medicines) for the prevention
and treatment of all human conditions and diseases, including degenerative diseases, infectious diseases,
psychological and mental illness. Intravenous therapies are an integral part of the training.

Governance
• Early intelligence reports: The Australian government generally followed WHO recommendations and
acted swiftly to implement border closures and quarantine measures upon receiving early intelligence
reports about the virus. However, it failed to make any recommendations regarding prevention and early
treatment.

• Political considerations: Decision-making regarding lockdowns and mask mandates was likely influenced
by various political factors, including public opinion polls and pressure from different sectors of the
economy. This sometimes led to inconsistent messaging and public confusion. Politicians ignored calls for
prevention and early treatment.

• Communication: While the government initially implemented clear and consistent communication
strategies, these efforts waned over time, leading to misinformation and confusion among diverse
communities. Additionally, communication often lacked fransparency and failed to address concerns
effectively. The mass media and medical profession were gagged and could not transmit important
information regarding the low level of morbidity and mortality of the virus.

• Resource allocation: The government allocated significant resources to pandemic response efforts, but
concerns remain regarding the efficiency and effectiveness of their distribution. Some argue that funding
for certain areas, like early treatment research, was inadequate. Funding for prevention using nutraceuticals
and repurposed medicines was non-existent.

• Ethical considerations: The government's attempts to balance public safety with individual freedoms and
economic concerns were not always successful. Lockdowns and border closures, while necessary to control
the spread of the virus, had a significant negative impact on individual liberties and businesses. Health
professionals were forbidden to provide informed consent and the public were forcibly coerced into taking
an experimental and unsafe vaccine.

Natural Prevention and Early Treatments:

• Investigation and promotion: The government's investigation and promotion of natural means of
preventing COVID-19, such as dietary and lifestyle modifications, were effectively non-existent. While
some information was available online, it was often inconsistent, inaccurate, misleading, biased and lacked
clear guidance for the public.

• Early treatment protocols: The evaluation and implementation of early treatment protocols using
repurposed drugs and other readily available interventions such as widely used scientifically based
nutraceuticals were hindered by several factors, including limited research funding, regulatory hurdles,
ignorance, and scepticism from healthcare leaders. This resulted in a lack of readily available and widely
accepted early treatment options that could have shortened the pandemic to 8 weeks.

• Barriers to adoption: Several barriers hindered the adoption of natural prevention and early treatment
strategies, including lack of scientific consensus, mainstream misinformation, and concerns about the safety
and efficacy of some interventions. Additionally, mainstream healthcare providers lack training and
resources to implement these strategies effectively. Australia has some of the best experts in the use of these
technologies.

• Communication of risks and benefits: The government's communication regarding the potential benefits
and risks of natural prevention and early treatment options was inconsistent and sometimes vague. The
ABC did nothing to help the community in terms of prevention. This contributed to public confusion and
scepticism, hindering the adoption of potentially helpful interventions.

• Future pandemic preparedness: Plans for integrating natural prevention and early treatment strategies into
future pandemic preparedness efforts are limited. More research is needed to explore the potential
effectiveness of these strategies and develop clear guidelines for healthcare providers and the public. This
is a matter of high priority especially now that the genetic vaccines have been shown to be ineffective and
dangerous.

Australia’s Early Treatment Failures in the COVID-19 Pandemic

        This report exposes the Australian government's egregious failures in early treatment research,
development, and implementation during the COVID-19 pandemic. Their lack of action, coupled with a
dismissive attitude towards readily available options, has had a devastating impact on public health and
well-being. The government's support for early treatment research was woefully inadequate. While billions
were poured into vaccines, funding for repurposed drags and readily available interventions was minimal.
This shortsightedness hampered the development of potentially life-saving protocols, leaving Australians
vulnerable in the early stages of the pandemic.

         Regulatory hurdles, lack of clear guidance for healthcare providers, and misinformation fuelled by
the government's own messaging created a hostile environment for early treatment adoption. This meant that
even promising options straggled to gain traction, leaving patients without access to potentially effective
interventions. While the government claims to have ensured the safety and efficacy of all medications used
for COVID-19, the approval process for some, particularly off-label medications, shrouded in secrecy. This
lack of transparency eroded public trast and created unnecessary fear and confusion.

         The government's communication regarding early treatment was inconsistent and often
misleading. Instead of providing clear information and encouraging research, they downplayed the
potential benefits and promoted a narrative of fear and uncertainty, effectively sabotaging public
confidence in early treatment options. Despite the lessons learned from the pandemic, the government has
failed to develop a comprehensive plan for future outbreaks. Stockpiling effective preventive and early
treatment options is non-existent, leaving the nation vulnerable to future pandemics.

         The Australian government's approach to early treatment during the CO VID-19 pandemic was a
colossal failure. Their lack of investment, obstructive regulations, and misleading communication deprived
Australians of potentially life-saving interventions. This report selves as a stark reminder of their
negligence and a call to action for a more proactive and transparent approach to future pandemics.
Currently, the innate strength of the human immune system is completely ignored by the medical
profession. It is the most powerful defence we all have against all viruses and every other pathogenic
microbe. The function of the immune system depends mostly on the individual’s nutritional status and
genetic makeup. It’s the basic building blocks of amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins, minerals and trace
elements that determine how powerful the immune system will respond to an infectious agent such as a
virus, bacteria or fungus. Any deficiency or imbalance of a single nutrient will weaken the response and
permit invasion, infection, multiple organ damage, severe disease and death. All of this profound science
has been completely ignored by the authorities, despite my attempts to speak with them at the highest
levels, including prime ministers, health ministers and chief medical officers.
Recommendations:

1. Allocate significant funding for research and development of early treatment options, including known
and proven effective repurposed drugs such as ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine, the lifesaving
nutraceuticals vitamins D and C and zinc, and other readily available interventions. The National Institute of
Integrative Medicine (NUM) has the comprehensive knowledge and experience to perform this research.

2. Streamline regulatory processes to facilitate the timely adoption of effective early and natural treatments.
This entails a separate regulatory system to the TGA which is dominated by the conflicted interests of Big
Pharma.

3. Provide clear and consistent communication to healthcare providers and the public about the availability
and benefits of early treatment options. Education programs such as those of the ACNEM are a priority.

4. Develop a comprehensive plan for future pandemics, including stockpiling effective early treatment
options.

5. Establish a truly independent body to oversee the government's response to future pandemics and ensure
transparency and accountability. Exclude Big Pharma interests. The Australian Medical Professionals
Association (AMPS) is experienced with the mis-management aspects of the current pandemic by both the
government and medical authorities and is in an ideal position to strategise for future pandemics.

        Only through bold action and a genuine commitment to prevention by natural means and early
treatment can Australia avoid repeating the tragic mistakes of the past.

         I speak on behalf of all the medical practitioners and health care workers who are trained in
nutritional medicine, who understand the power of these nutrients and repurposed medicines, who know
they work but are too afraid of speaking out.

         In the future we could avoid pandemics in 6 to 8 weeks if we are smart enough to think
differently.


Professor Ian Brighthope. MB.BS., FACNEM., Dip.Ag.Sci.
12th. December 2023.


References:
1. Covid Submission Attachment
2. Covid Critical Care Alliance Protocols.
  https://covidl9criticalcare.com/treatmentprotocols/
                               Covid Inquiry

My name is Ian Ernest Brighthope. I graduated in medicine and surgery from
Monash University in 1974. In 1978 I established a medical practice in
Hampton, Victoria and subsequently 3 other treatment centres in Melbourne.
In 1982 I initiated and became a co-founder and the founding president of the
Australasian College of Nutritional and Environmental Medicine (ACNEM). I
remained as president for the subsequent 26 years. I remain its official
ambassador.
The College has continued to train medical practitioners in Nutritional and
Environmental Medicine to Fellowship standard for the past 41 years. The
training involves the scientifically based use of diet, nutrition and
‘nutraceuticals’ (vitamins, minerals, amino acids, plant based medicines) for
the prevention and treatment of all human conditions and diseases, including
degenerative diseases, infectious diseases, psychological and mental illness.
Intravenous therapies are an integral part of the training.

My experience with infectious diseases commenced in the late 1970’s when I
started using High Dose Intravenous Vitamin C (HDIVC) for the treatment of
severe influenza, severe herpes simplex, shingles, and other severe
infections such as adult chicken pox (a potential killer). With the advent of the
HIV/AIDS virus in 1981 and it’s spread in Australia, patients came to my
clinics for treatment with nutrients to improve immune function and other
conditions. Patients who were hospitalised with opportunistic infections would
come to the clinic for HDIVC. Some of these patients with opportunistic
infections such a herpes and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) would
discharge themselves from hospital for treatment and then return for
readmission until their conditions stabilised. It was during this period that I
gained an enormous amount of experience in the treatment of acute
infections, including serious respiratory infections in the most
immunocompromised patients. I wrote a book titled “The AIDS Fighters” for
the general public and patients alike. The forward was written by double
Nobel Prize winner, Linus Pauling. The publication attracted the ire of the
medical board of Victoria.

In the decades following, the experience that I gained from the use of HDIVC
and many other nutrients in the prevention of infectious diseases became
testimony to the scientific literature supporting the clinical use of nutritional
immunology. This despite the fact that the general medical profession
preferred to ignore the science and insist only the evidence of randomised
studies that are best limited to the use of pharmaceuticals. Human health
care extends far beyond the simplistic medical use of drugs and vaccines.


                                   Rage 1 of 10
                               Covid Inquiry


From the early 1980’s, over 200,000 HDIVC infusions were administered
during influenza outbreaks and other conditions. I have also had experience
with patients who have suffered from Swine Flu and placed on Extracorporeal
Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO). Some of these patients were destined to
die. HDIVC was successful in them surviving. The principles of the use of
HDIVC are non-specific, supportive and immune-enhancing.
The management of Covid patients in many other centres around the world
since the outbreak of the pandemic using nutraceuticals such as vitamins C,
D and Zinc and repurposed medicines has been nothing less than
phenomenal.

It is my firm belief that nutritional medicine could save hundreds of millions of
lives and create global abundance.

We could have been pandemic free in six to to eight weeks had the
‘authorities’ backed the science of nutritional immunology. Unfortunately it
was peremptorily dismissed by the world’s ‘health’ authorities and governing
bodies.


The world could be free of future pandemics. However this will only occur
when we realise that scientific fundamentals or prevention and early
treatment were not applied to the SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) pandemic. We
must always be proactive and react positively. Whilst social distancing,
hygiene, testing, tracking and tracing may have been partially effective, this
approach is too late, weak and a reflection of the failure to plan, prevent and
manage individuals in a population. Waiting and hoping for effective, safe
vaccines and antiviral drugs is almost farcical, especially when the mRNA
vaccines were experimental, dangerous and deadly for many.

Logical questions must be asked such as ‘are we going to continue to wait for
vaccines and drugs when the next, and possibly highly lethal virus strikes?’
Are we going to continue to execute harsh economy destroying ineffective
lockdowns? Are we going to continue to drain our taxpayers wealth to the
advantage of the vaccine manufacturer’s bottom line?

Currently, the innate strength of the human immune system is completely
ignored by the medical profession. It is the most powerful defence we all have
against all viruses and every other pathogenic microbe.The function of the
immune system depends mostly on the individual’s nutritional status and

                                   Rage 2 of 10
                               Covid Inquiry

genetic makeup. It’s the basic building blocks of amino acids, fatty acids,
vitamins, minerals and trace elements that determine how powerful the
immune system will respond to an infectious agent such as a virus, bacteria
or fungus. Any deficiency or imbalance of a single nutrient will weaken the
response and permit invasion, infection, multiple organ damage, severe
disease and death. All of this profound science has been completely ignored
by the authorities, despite my attempts to speak with them at the highest
levels, including prime ministers, health ministers and chief medical officers.

Doctors practicing nutritional medicine understand how important diet,
nutritional supplementation and the elimination of excesses such as sugar,
alcohol and saturated fats are to preventing most diseases. For decades now,
nutritional medicine (NM) experts have been quietly defeating infectious
diseases, including where orthodox medicine fails. They have been
successfully preventing and treating influenza, severe herpes, coronavirus
infections, intractable bacterial infections and pneumonia etc for over 5
decades using nutrients that are essential for improving the immune response
and suppressing viral loads, including killing the viruses responsible.

The advent of Covid-19 saw panic, pandemonium, economic destruction and
death. The world’s health authorities were completely unprepared for it. They
should have utilised the superior strategies of nutraceuticals vitamin D,
Vitamin C and Zinc rather than the application of simplistic epidemiological
tools. The scientific evidence and experience that NM has accumulated over
the decades has been and still is, completely ignored. Practitioners of NM
have universally attempted making the authorities aware of how powerful it is
but the preference of hoping for a vaccine has dominated. Meanwhile,
unnecessary deaths and destruction have prevailed.
January 2020 saw the commencement of my ‘CD-Zinc Campaign’. It
consisted of public health recommendations for the entire population to take
Vitamins C and D and the trace element Zinc. These are the most critical,
effective, safe, cheap and readily available nutrients for optimal immunity and
virus elimination. The government could have subsidised these proven
nutrients at a minute fraction of the cost of the pandemic and experimental
vaccines. The entire population could have continued as normal following a
maximum of 2 short sharp lockdowns in which the RACGP could have
managed the patients with the preventives and early treatments.




                                  Page 3 of 10
                               Covid Inquiry

VITAMIN C.
All infections significantly impact on vitamin C levels due to enhanced
inflammation and metabolic requirements. Supplementation with vitamin C
both prevents and treats respiratory and systemic infections.
COVID-19 causes more serious conditions such as pneumonia, acute lung
injury (ALI), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), septic shock and
multiple organ failure.
Some patients develop serious co-infections of bacteria and fungi. ARDS is
characterised by severe low-blood oxygen, uncontrolled inflammation,
oxidative damage and damage to the air sac barrier leading to death.
Infections and sepsis cause the ‘cytokine storm’. This leads to fluid
accumulation in the airways. Increased oxidative stress is a key factor in
pulmonary injury including ALI and ARDS.
Vitamin C has many functions for COVID prevention and treatment, including
the above mentioned complications. Vitamin C can reduce the incidence and
severity of all viral infections. Vitamin C increases white blood cell activity,
reduces the replication of viruses, increases the production of interferons,
enhances killer and helper cell proliferation and increases antibody
formation. It is a very powerful antioxidant that protects cells and tissues. Its
anti-viral effects have been demonstrated in influenza, herpes viruses, pox
viruses and coronaviruses.
Vitamin C can ameliorate the hyperoxia-induced ALI and attenuate hyperoxia-
induced white blood cell dysfunction.
Vitamin C prevents the cytokine surge damaging the lungs. Vitamin C
eliminates alveolar fluid by preventing the activation and accumulation of
neutrophils, which are specialised white blood cells. High dose intravenous
Vitamin C (HDIVC) is instrumental in recovery from influenza and ARDS and
other serious complications of serious viral infections. Patients on life support
(ECMO) with a poor prognosis have been rapidly and successfully recovered
using HDIVC, with no evidence of lung fibrosis .
IV Vitamin C use in septic shock reduces mortality. Septic shock occurs in
very sick Covid patients. It also reduces the length of stay in ICU and
significantly shortens the duration of mechanical ventilation. It probably also
helps to reduce the damage caused by intubation. HDIVC does not cause
kidney stones or kidney damage, an excuse used by opponents to justify
refusal to use the treatment. A rare side effect is preventable break down of
some of the red blood cells.

In March 2020, the Shanghai government announced its official
recommendation that COVID-19 could be treated with high doses of IV
Vitamin C. The experience of thousands of doctors around the world who

                                   Page 4 of 10
                               Covid Inquiry
have used HDIVC is that this molecule is one of the most powerful in virtually
all human conditions, including physical and mental illnesses and trauma. It
should be used as the treatment of first choice in every epidemic.

Unfortunately, despite my appeals to the College of Intensive Care Medicine
of Australia and New Zealand and various intensive care specialists,
Australian patients in ICU were denied this lifesaving treatment. Relatives and
I pleaded with these doctors on a number of occasions to administer HDIVC.
The pleas fell on deaf ears. “It’s not one of our protocol medications” were the
excuses for denying the treatment, despite evidence of its effectiveness.

VITAMIN D
Vitamin D is the sunlight vitamin. When ultraviolet light falls on the skin, it
manufactures a precursor of vitamin D that goes to the kidneys and liver to
make active vitamin D; more accurately now referred to as a hormone, called
calcitriol. Deficiency of vitamin D results in rickets in children, bone diseases
in adults such as osteoporosis and a greatly weakened immune system. Cod
liver oil is a rich source of vitamin D and vitamin A. It was used extensively for
children in the past during winter to protect against colds and influenza.
We now know that this ‘sunlight’ vitamin is essential for immunity. Lack of
exposure to sunlight in winter increases the prevalence of vitamin D
insufficiency/deficiency as does living further away from the equator, indoor
existence, dark skin and the minimisation of skin exposure to the sun with
clothing. The seasonal increase in vitamin D deficiency amplifies the risk from
respiratory viruses, including the Covid-19 coronavirus. This is one of the
main reasons we see these infections in winter and early spring.

A large number of clinical trials of vitamin D supplementation for the
prevention of acute respiratory tract infections have been conducted over the
last 2 decades. Randomised controlled trials have shown an overall
protective effect of vitamin D supplementation against acute respiratory tract
infections including influenza and coronaviruses. In fact, the benefit from
supplemental vitamin D is greater in those receiving daily vitamin D than the
benefits from influenza vaccinations. The protective effects against acute
respiratory tract infections are strongest in those with profound vitamin D
deficiency. Those with low levels of vitamin D have greater protection from
infections with supplementation.
People with vitamin D insufficiency/deficiency are much more likely to suffer
serious outcomes and death from exposure to respiratory viruses than people
with optimal vitamin D levels. Those with insufficient levels are very
susceptible to serious illness and hospitalisation but at less risk of having to


                                   Page 5 of 10
                               Covid Inquiry
go into ICU and death.

Elderly people, especially those in aged-care, are at very high risk from the
consequences of vitamin D deficiency, unless given adequate vitamin D
supplementation to maintain optimal levels. Others who cannot manufacture
enough include people of colour, people restricted to indoors, the obese,
diabetics and others with one or more chronic diseases.


The Nordic countries have public health policies of vitamin D supplementation
and food fortification. They also have among the lowest mortality rates
attributed to Covid. Thus, vitamin D adequacy in the general population
allows for a much lower mortality. Countries that do not have any public
health policy of vitamin D supplementation in winter and spring create at risk
groups to viral respiratory infections. Accordingly, surges in cases and deaths
from influenza-like viruses including Covid-19 occur.

Public health programmes of vitamin D supplementation
protect elderly people and healthcare workers from serious illness and death
and allow for much less severe lock-downs and much less economic
destruction.
In fact overall, it leads to greater productivity and economic gains.
Vitamin D supplementation is extremely safe, effective, cheap and readily
available. No significant toxicity has been reported with doses of 10,000 IU
per day or less. In some individuals the dose required to meet protective
levels is higher. Blood tests must be performed to measure the levels of
vitamin D and for monitoring.

The myriad of mechanisms of action of vitamin D are well understood.
Logically, if it is to be regarded as a hormone, then routine testing of people at
risk of insufficiency or deficiency should be conducted. If the level of calcitriol
is low, it should be medically corrected with supplementation, just as is done
with insulin in diabetes and thyroid hormone in hypothyroidism. If vitamin D
was a drug and knowing all of it’s mechanisms of action, it would be readily
and extensively prescribed by the medical profession. (Change the name to
calcitriol and let’s see what happens).

The immediate introduction of public health measures to improve vitamin D
status in individuals globally is paramount. The priority should be in settings
where insufficient levels and profound vitamin D deficiency is common.
The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners has an unbelievable
and active policy of discouraging its doctor members from testing for vitamin

                                   Page 6 of 10
                                Covid Inquiry
D status. It states erroneously that there is no evidence for the use of vitamin
D in covid. This is seriously incorrect and proven to be deadly, especially for
the elderly in aged-care.

ZINC

Finally, to zinc, a critical trace element in the fight against Covid, other viruses
and future pandemics. It plays a fundamental role in protecting us against
invaders. Without optimal levels of zinc, we are completely unprotected.
Approximately 30 percent of the community have insufficient or deficient
levels of zinc, leaving them susceptible to infection.

Zinc significantly influences immune function. The following explains the
biological basis of altered resistance to infections when zinc is deficient. Zinc
is known to play a central role in the immune system and zinc-deficient
persons experience increased susceptibility to a variety of pathogens. Zinc
affects multiple aspects of the immune system and is crucial for the normal
development and function of cells mediating nonspecific immunity such as
neutrophils and natural killer cells.
Zinc deficiency results in altered numbers and dysfunction of all the immune
cells. Suboptimal zinc increases risk for infectious diseases, autoimmune
disorders, and cancer.
The known risk groups for zinc deficiency include those suffering from
malnutrition, the elderly and patients with various inflammatory and
autoimmune diseases.
A mild zinc deficiency is largely sub-clinical and it is unnoticed in most people.
The WHO assumes at least one third of the world’s population is affected by
zinc deficiency and in Europe, 10 to 20% are zinc deficient.
It is responsible for approximately 16% of all deep respiratory infections
world-wide.

Zinc deficiency also affects the development of acquired immunity, the
activation of T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes. It helps B lymphocyte
development and antibody production, particularly immunoglobulin G. Zinc
deficiency adversely affects the function of macrophages.
The impact of zinc supplementation on COVID is now well known and the
experience of its use by thousands of physicians world wide supports its use
in Covid prevention and treatment.
Supplementation is safe, effective, cheap and readily available with minimal
to no side effects.



                                    Rage 7 of 10
                              Covid Inquiry

Supplementation with zinc could reduce mortality in the Covid-19 patient
population. Successful supplementation studies focusing on respiratory tract
infection in most cases showed prophylactic zinc supplementation was more
effective than other therapeutics.
Low serum zinc levels are regularly observed in CORD, bronchial asthma,
cardiovascular diseases, autoimmune diseases, kidney diseases, dialysis,
obesity, diabetes, cancer, atherosclerosis, liver cirrhosis, immunosuppression,
and known liver damage.
57.5% of the elderly and nursing home residents in the U.S. have a
significantly decreased zinc intake.
Zinc supplementation is able to reconstitute immune function in elderly and
zinc deficient individuals.
The Journal of Infectious Diseases has documented poor outcomes in Covid
patients with zinc deficiency. These zinc deficient patients develop more
complications, and deficiency was associated with a prolonged hospital stay
and increased mortality.

Zinc creates a virus killing mucous lining our airways from the nose to the
airway’s final passages. It holds our lining cells together. Without zinc, our
white cells cannot produce antibodies and our genes cannot express and
repair themselves for any viral onslaught. It has been shown to be effective in
Covid-19, as has vitamins C and D and these 3 nutrients are, in my opinion,
extremely synergistic.
Most doctors involved in nutritional immunology recommend these three
nutrients.

Now, there is absolutely every reason for the global health authorities to
execute a CD-Zinc supplementation program, world-wide. There is no excuse
to deny the people of the world a new, cheap, readily available scientifically-
based approach to be pandemic and pandemonium free. We cannot wait for
all the clinical studies to emerge when existing quality science and
experience support their use. We cannot keep watching the bodies drop.

 In summary, Covid poses very little risk to people of good health. The
judicious use of nutritional supplements as described above will prevent most
respiratory infections and in particular, Covid. Supplementation will prevent
serious infections and hospitalisations and should be managed by trained
medical practitioners, nurse practitioners and scientists with appropriate
training in nutritional immunology. The most important supplements are oral
vitamin D, oral and injectable vitamin C and zinc. The entire population


                                  Rage 8 of 10
                               Covid Inquiry

should be educated as to the value of these nutrients and it should not be a
difficult task. Over 70% of Australians take supplements.
The correct use of vitamin D by measuring blood levels of the entire
population, increasing them to 120nmol/L, and preferably 150nmol/L, will
remediate insufficiencies and protect everyone against severe illness and
death.


Should there be individuals who do develop breakthrough and moderate
infections, on admission to hospital they should be administered High Dose
Intravenous Vitamin C immediately and if their vitamin D is insufficient or
deficient, an injection of calcifederol should be administered to achieve
optimal vitamin D status. These procedures will effectively prevent
deterioration and complications including inflammation, thrombosis, ARDS,
ALI and opportunistic bacterial and viral infections. This also applies to other
acute, severe, viral respiratory infections including coryza, influenza and
coronaviruses. It is the best non-specific defensive management of the
patient.

As I have mentioned before, the use of the tri-nutrient approach will reduce
the incidence of Covid-19 infection, the severity of Covid-19 infection, the
requirement for hospitalisation and if commenced early in a severely ill
breakthrough patient, will prevent admission to ICU. Death should only occur
in Covid patients who are severely ill from co-morbidities but if these patients
are treated nutritionally, their co-morbidities would also be less severe.

Based on my clinical experience and that of other clinicians overseas, the
most effective course of treatment for Covid is the widespread use of vitamin
D with the added nutrients vitamin C and zinc and the drug ivermectin. They
are used prophylactically and therapeutically. HDIVC must be used if a
patients condition deteriorates. Since the 1980’s I have frequently argued that
every Australian should have access to HDIVC at times of epidemics and
pandemics. Thousands of lives would be saved.

There are a number of other nutrients and herbal medicines that practitioners
here and overseas are using but the tri-nutrient approach above is more than
adequate. The other useful substances with evidence include Chinese and
Japanese mushroom extracts, Astragalus, Chinese wormwood, EGCG from
green tea, liquorice root extract, N-Acetyl Cysteine, Colloidal silver nasal
spray and colchicine.


                                   Page 9 of 10
                              Covid Inquiry

I have mentioned the drug ivermectin as both a preventative and therapeutic.
As a clinician, I have witnessed it’s significant effectiveness.There is now
overwhelming evidence of its efficacy and despite the current controversy
here in Australia, there is good evidence from a large body of published
studies. But, more importantly, the successful use of ivermectin in the
prevention and early treatment of Covid by my colleagues overseas, is
indisputable. The home management using ivermectin of patients who would
have been admitted to hospital and ICU is clearly evident. I have witnessed
this in various zoom conferences with my colleagues in South Africa and
Zimbabwe. Ivermectin at higher doses is also used in hospitalised patients
and patients in ICU. I have the training and experience to evaluate
therapeutics that have both scientific documentation and clinical use
especially in very sick patients.

I believe the general population in Australia would benefit significantly from
the use of the above strategy. Early outpatient treatment, if necessary, would
prevent hospitalisation. The best form of immunisation is that which is
achieved naturally. The use of the above strategy would enable natural
immunity to be achieved in the population, whether or not vaccination has
occurred in the individual. This rather than ineffective vaccines produces herd
immunity. Furthermore, the emergence of further strains of Covid would have
minimal impact on the population as, firstly they will have developed profound
natural immunity if exposed to the virus and secondly they will be protected
from severe illness with the nutraceuticals. The government would have no
need for further lockdowns and health care workers would be given a reprieve
from extremely stressful working conditions and their own fear of death.

I speak on behalf of all the medical practitioners and health care workers who
are trained in nutritional therapeutics, who understand the power of these
nutrients, who know this science works but, are too afraid of speaking out.

We could be free of viral pandemics.

Professor Ian Brighthope
December, 2023




                                 Rage 10 of 10
