1 | Page


 Terms of Reference for the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response
                                                  Inquiry

        Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
        governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination
        Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting
        responses to COVID-19


    > It is now apparent that the Commonwealth Government along with the State &
      Territories governments and associated Cabinets, Committees and Advisory
      Bodies were guided by others ie the World Health Organisation (WHO), the
      Centres for Disease Control & Prevention ( CDC in USA), Big Pharma (
      Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson + others 1* ) and the World Economic Forum which
      are run by billionaires who seem to want a path of influence and control.
    >      National Cabinet was set up illegally and ran unconstitutionally.
           o Why did governments came to conclusions to believe the ‘ main
              stream’ propaganda spread especially by the WHO , Dr Anthony Fauci
              -Former Chief Medical Advisor to the President of USA and so many
              more before doing some serious research into what they called COVID
              19.
    >      Money, Power and Control are the key elements that shine as the overall
                                                               a little like what
                           2

    > Investigation into the actions of China and Wuhan should have been the first
      place of research back in 2019 (perhaps now only emerging).
    > Research of the Pfizer documents by TGA should have occurred before the
      approval of ‘vaccines. It took a court case to get Pfizer to release the
      information- is that no a ‘red flag’?
    > Government personal took the opportunity to press with power over the
      Australian people with little regard to our Constitutional Rights and Human
      rights including freedom of speech, Opinion, Religion, Association and
      Movement.
    > As a person with critical thinking and NOT just believer the ‘MAIN STREAM
      MEDIA’- it was very clear early in 2020 that this was not about a ‘spreading
      Virus news’.
    > What agreement did the Australian Government sign with the Pharmaceutical
      companies and sign off giving indemnity to the Big Pharma’s and then the
      Government set up their own responsibility of legal liability over the Vaccine
      Injured with limited Risk Assessment?
                  ■ Was our Australian Government paid to accept and purchase 69
                     million vaccines for 25 million people? (Untested for the
                     mandatory period of 5-6years)
                  ■ What Incentives or Tax Breaks were offered & paid to Main
                     Stream Media to promote home the message on COVID 19
                     Vaccines - Safe and Effective
                  ■ Where was the government transparency?

1 https://www.zeebiz.com/web-stories/markets/companies/top-10-pharma-companies-by-market-share-
1702287879206                          __________
 ht+nc//ununin kiritonnira rr\m
2 | Page


    > The testing of people not sick using PCR and RAT tests was unprecedented
      and evidence shows these were never accurate.3
    > The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) statement
      issued on 9 March 2021 to all registered medical professionals, restricted their
      ability to operate under their medical code of conduct. 4

    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
        medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
        messaging).


    > With regard to the health responses to the so called ‘Coronavirus - COVID
      19’
          o No minimum of 5- 15 years of Vaccine testing before it is made
             available to the public. 5 6
          o No response to people dying or injuries from the Vaccines - and no
             withdrawal of the vaccines from the market with knowledge of adverse
             events.
          o Mandating COVID 19 vaccines - first the 2 and then then the Boosters
                 ■ Australian’s were made to believe they could make their own
                    choice, make own decisions on their health, but were not
                    provided full disclosure of the drug to allow them to give proper
                    consent.
    > Withdrawal of Ivermectin from pharmaceutical shelves as an identified
      treatment for COVID 19 - a drug which was able to reduce the severity of the
      Coronavirus in many( as proved in Indian counties and those who managed to
      procure the drug ( Safe and Effective since 1987) - then withdrawn - any
      person would question that action as withdrawal of possible assisting drug
      without any explanation by sources !!???
    > Numerous Scientific reports show that mask wearing was ineffective to the
      spread of the virus, especially homemade ones.
    > Public Health Messaging = Repeated Messaging of ‘lies’ and people will
      eventually believe it. 7
          o Main Stream media did not let up (I believe they were paid) and the
             constant daily figures reported by each States Chief Health Minister
          o No debate was allowed by any main stream media sources - luckily
             some stood out and questioned, debated and allowed people to
             provide an alternative opinion to the governments one. Thank you Sky
             News, Ben Fordham and some our Senators now questioning the
             events.
    > Quarantine Issues: Should never have happened - solution would have been
      to request / ask people to remain isolated in their homes until all were well
      again. People should have been transported in special vehicles from cruise
      ships or other places to their homes and assisted with home food deliveries
      and pharmaceutical requirements.


3 https://asm.org/press-releases/2022/december/boosting-accuracy,-reducing-false-positives-of-pcr
4 https://www.racgp.org.au/clinical-resources/clinical-guidelines/key-racgp-guidelines/view-all-racgp-
guidelines/genomics-in-general-practice/genomics-in-general-practice/ethical-principles
5 https://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/immunization/vaccine_safety/science.htm
6 https://ncirs.org.au/phases-clinical-trials
7
3 | Page


           o Special Quarantine Facilities have been a burden on tax paying
             Australians & continue to be a daily cost for ongoing management for
             facilities now mostly empty.
           o The best medicine for any human with medical issues is Vitamin C,
             Vitamin D (sun), Exercise (raise endorphins), fresh air and good fresh
             food and being in the company of caring individuals.
           o So Lock Downs / Quarantines - locking people up in homes, hotels,
             ships, etc did not allow for any of the above
           o An new medical pandemic has now emerged with a huge increase of
             individual with ‘mental health problems’; including children locked out of
             schools, parent locked up with families trying to work and teach;
             businesses going bust, financial stresses beyond imagination and
             isolation of people from family is crisis situations (hospitals, dying,
             funerals, grieving, general family support etc)

   •   Broader health supports for people impacted by CO VID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
       mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive
       health measures).
           > Too late - the government have completely caused a national disaster
             with the government actions
           > Firstly, the focus should be on people who have been injured from
             COVID 19 vaccines - the list is long and length ( see Jab Injuries
             Australia information - book published) & the original lists from the
             TGA Vaccine Injuries.
           > Secondly, the investigation into the deaths of those from COVID 19
             vaccines. The Therapeutics Goods Administration (TGA) made it
             difficult for doctors to record injuries on the web site, investigations by
             some found one could record it themselves but so many did not know -
             so records I watched in early days as the data base got bigger was
             horrifying.
           > No alternative health information was forthcoming at any time for
             people - just the message rammed home that one had to take the
             vaccine = It was SAFE & EFFECTiVE!!!?? Well this message is now
             proved to be completely incorrect.
   •   International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to international
       border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic use in
       Australia).
           > Do not allow outside ‘partners’ or WHO to have any control over what
             Australians choose - no outside governance should be allowed.
           > Vaccine supplies - well lets focus on ensuring the vaccines we choose
             to let into our country are thoroughly tested, trialled for the mandatory
             5-15 years to ensure they are ‘Safe and Effective’.


   •   Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport
       issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).
           > People are continually sick from vaccines and boosters that have been
             taken an has caused severe staff shortages
           > Part of the labour shortages are clearly from people being mandated to
             take a drug (vaccine) that they did not want to and then being
             ostracised from their employment. Eg - Police force, Ambulance/
             Paramedics , Nurses, and so many more.
    4 | Page


               > The persecuted ‘Un-jabbed’ Australians overall have survived the
                 health issues so much better. Many of the reports advise it was not
                 much more than a ‘bad flu/ influenza’ which does circulate most years.
               > The best support for industry and businesses is NEVER ALLOW this to
                 happen again.
                    ■ I do not believe an increase in immigration is the answer
                    ■ I believe a stricter control on social security needs to be looked
                        at and people have to be firmly encouraged to seek
                        employment.

       •   Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).
             > Jab Injury individuals need to be provided with support and
               compensation. The current process is not meeting the needs of those
               in terrible situations and it was through no fault of their own - just the
               ‘Mandating process’ that led these people down a path with no come
               back.
> Financial support to Jab Injury individuals with alternative health programs (Free) to
  allow body detoxing.



•   Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing and
    homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of Commonwealth
    Government responsibility).
           > The creation of world turmoil with countries going into lockdowns, travel
             restricted, and the economy turned upside down for over 2 years, has
             caused such harm to people that the issues listed above have reached
             crisis levels.
                 o Build communities and allow families to rebuild lives - provide a
                     sense of safety, a place of belonging and a purpose in life.

       •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
           across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with
           disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically
           diverse communities).
           > No 1: Proper Consent for people to allow them the decision on what they
             to put into their bodies. This is a ‘human right’.
           > No 2: Never mandate a vaccine again called ‘SAFE & EFFECTIVE’ after
             only 1-2 years in production
           > No 3: Do the research on the Big Pharma, the Big Companies pushing the
             agenda, the Billionaires pushing the barrow and ensure our Australian
             government protects all the Australians in the this country.
           > No 4: Provide and allow debate on all subjects in Main Stream media ( a
             source of information for many) and DO NOT use ‘Repeated messaging’ in
             a propaganda way.
