                                                                                    LIVE
                                                                                    PERFORMANCE
                                                                                    AUSTRALIA




COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Submission from Live Performance Australia


1.       ABOUT LIVE PERFORMANCE AUSTRALIA

LPA is the peak body for Australia's live arts and entertainment industry. Established over 100 years
ago in 1917 and registered as an employers' organisation under the Fair Work (Registered
Organisations) Act 2009, LPA has nearly 400 Members nationally. We represent commercial and
independent producers, music promoters, performing arts companies, venues (performing arts
centres, commercial theatres, stadiums and arenas), arts festivals, music festivals and service
providers (such as ticketing companies and technical suppliers). Our membership spans from small­
medium and not-for-profit organisations to large commercial entities.

2.       INTRODUCTION

LPA welcomes the opportunity to inform recommendations to improve Australia's preparedness for
future pandemics. Our submission relates to the following focus areas in the Terms of Reference:

     •      broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (mental health)

     •      support for industry and businesses (labour shortages and support for specific industries).

The live performance industry was among the first to be impacted by the introduction of public
health restrictions. Commonwealth, state and territory governments ordered against holding non­
essential, organised public gatherings of more than 500 people from Monday 16 March 2020. Over
the following two years, public health orders and travel restrictions caused the cancellation of
thousands of live performances and events, festivals and concert tours.

It is important that policy makers consider medium to longer-term consequences when imposing
restrictions or lockdowns, particularly on the live performance industry. As many live performance
companies operate across state borders, nationally consistent government measures (e.g.
consistent definitions of essential workers, density rules) would reduce the administrative and
compliance burden for organisations. In addition, early certainty of government's plans would help
business reactivation plans. Unlike other businesses, live events cannot be put on stage as soon as
business activity restrictions are lifted. There are lengthy lead times (typically 4-8 weeks for shows
'in market' and longer for shows that are planned but not yet on stage) to put on a performance.
Productions may also need to adapt their practices to respond to public health advice. As such,
businesses would benefit from advanced insight into government's plans for reactivation.

LPA's prior submission to the Select Committee on the COVID-19 Pandemic (June 2020) is provided in
Attachment 1. This contains further details on the key issues, proposals and industry statistics
presented by LPA to the Australian Government throughout the pandemic.

EY's assessment of COVID-19's impact on the industry (December 2020) is provided in Attachment
2.
                                                                                                                     VVA
                                                                                                                            LIVE
                                                                                                                            PERFORMANCE
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                                                   AUSTRALIA




3.      THE IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON THE LIVE PERFORMANCE INDUSTRY

Closures and cancellations led to sunk costs, lost revenue and job losses
The shutdown of events and venues led to significant and unrecoverable sunk costs for producers,
promoters, artists and live performance venues. These include those relating to content
development, programming, national and international touring, marketing and promotion, visa fees,
deposits for artists and production services, security fees and ticketing.

Lost revenue was widespread in the independent, not-for-profit and commercial sectors. For the live
performance industry, 6 months of closure equated to more than a $lb loss in ticket revenue.1 This
decimated the financial reserves of many companies and continues to hinder their efforts to rebuild.

Job loss was significant across the industry. The Australian Bureau of Statistics reported that arts and
recreation services businesses had the second-highest number of job losses, with a 19% decline in
payroll jobs in the week ending 2 May 2020.2 Although the JobKeeper program provided more than
$76 million to the creative and performing arts sector in April 2020, both JobKeeper and JobSeeker
excluded much of the live performance workforce due to unique employment arrangements,
including casuals and freelancers.

The industry is experiencing 'long-covid' impacts
In 2021, the Australian live performance industry generated total ticket sales revenue of almost
$0.7b, an increase of 12% from 2020. Approximately 10.9m tickets were issued, a 40.1% growth
from 2020. However, these results are noticeably lower than pre-pandemic, with a 65% decrease in
revenue and 54% decrease in attendance from 2019 to 2021.

Although some sectors of the industry have returned strongly, different audience segments and
parts of the industry are recovering at differing speeds. They are also grappling with significant
inflationary factors (operating costs are now 30-50% higher), employment costs, skills shortages and
rising cost of living pressures for audiences. Many organisations remain financially vulnerable;
government COVID-support programs have been discontinued, and organisations have run down
their financial reserves due to not being able to generate income during the pandemic. It is
important that companies rebuild their reserves to both weather future black swan events and
continue to play their significant role as employers and content creators/producers.

Skill shortages and worker burnout are critical issues
Uncertainty and job losses during the pandemic have exacerbated skill shortages. Many
professionals left the industry for better job security or have moved internationally to pursue
opportunities. Prior to COVID-19, the industry consistently raised concerns over a shortage of
technical workers (sound and lighting), particularly in regional areas. In 2022, LPA Member surveys
confirmed that shortages had expanded to include crew (audio, visual, lighting, stage and set
construction), production (company, stage and event management, wardrobe and design) and front
of house roles in both metropolitan and regional areas. The latest National Skills Priority List confirms
a national shortage of sound and lighting technicians.

The resulting worker burnout means that poor mental health presents the highest risk in
workplaces today. 'Job stress and other work-related psychosocial hazards are emerging as the




1 LPATicket Attendance and Revenue Report 2019 and 2020 (liveperformance.com.au)
2 Australian Bureau of Statistics (2020), Business Impacts of COVID-19 Survey Week Commencing 30 March 2020, 7 April 2020


LPA Submission                                                                                                  liveperformance.com.au
Date: 11 December 2023
                                                                                                          VVA
                                                                                                                 LIVE
                                                                                                                 PERFORMANCE
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                                        AUSTRALIA




leading contributors to the burden of occupational disease and injury'.3 The costs of mental health
are substantial, including lower economic participation and lost productivity.4

Compared to the general population, workers in the live arts and entertainment industry are 4x
more likely to experience psychological distress, and 4.5x more likely to have suicidal thoughts, with
1/10 acting upon these thoughts.5 Despite this, mental health support is limited to a minority of
workplaces. While many large companies offer their workers access to support programs such as an
Employee Assistance Program, these resources do not exist for independent workers and workers at
small to medium companies due to cost barriers.

LPA acknowledges the value of the Federal Government's funding for Support Act services during the
pandemic.6 Support Act offers crisis relief, mental health and wellbeing support to workers across
the music industry. It is vital that the Government continue to invest in such services, including for
live performance more broadly, to improve the wellbeing and future resilience of the industry.

4.     KEY RECOMMENDATIONS TO IMPROVE AUSTRALIA'S PREPAREDNESS

 IMPLEMENT NOW

 Industry-led       Many LPA Members are willing to employ trainees or provide practical training but are
 traineeships       constrained financially from doing so. LPA urges the Government to fund 12-month
                    industry-led traineeships that address skills and employment shortages and help rebuild
                    Australia's arts and entertainment industry ($3.5m pa for 3 years, for 100 traineeships
                    annually). It would be supported by a grants program for industry-led initiatives to attract,
                    retrain and retain skilled workers ($500,000 over 18 months).

 Employee           Establish an industry-specific Employee Assistance Program ($2-3m pa for 3 years) to allow
 Assistance         arts and entertainment workers to access mental health and wellbeing support. This would
 Program            complement Support Act but have broader reach.

 Reserves           Establish a Reserves Rebuild Fund ($25m over two years). The fund could be matched by
 Rebuild            state and territory governments to total $50m and would enable companies to move quickly
 Fund               to sustainable financial settings.

 IMPLEMENT II\l FUTURE CRISIS EVENT

 JobSeeker          Extend JobSeeker Coverage. As noted, JobSeeker excluded much of the live performance
 Coverage           workforce that were also ineligible for JobKeeper due to unique employment arrangements
                    (casuals and freelancers). An Industry Advisory Group (below) could inform this work.

 Reactivation       Establish a $100m grants program to support business reactivation and recovery in the 18-
 and                months following a crisis event. Grants could be used to offset the production and
 Recovery           operational costs, as well as the costs of freight, travel, marketing, insurance and staffing.
 Grants             Grants could be made available to live music businesses, commercial theatre producers, not-
 Program            for-profit companies and service providers (such as specialist audio, visual and lighting
                    production companies).

 Industry           LPA recommends that a Live Arts and Entertainment Industry Advisory Group be established
 Advisory           to provide expert advice to Government throughout any future pandemics / Black Swan
 Group              events.



3 M Marmot, J Siegrist, and TTheorelle. (2008) "Health and the Psychological Environment at Work." In Social
Determinants of Health, (Oxford: Oxford University Press), pp. 97-130.
4 https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/mental-health/report/mental-health-actions-findings.pdf
5 https://supportact.org.au/mental-health-survey/
6 The Australian government has announced $10 million in funding for Support Act (mixdownmag.com.au)


LPA Submission                                                                                        liveperformance.com.au
Date: 11 December 2023
