Covid submission
I am a mother and technology professional. I gave up work to care full-time for
my children as Covid-19 has been so widespread in childcare and education. I
never expected to be a stay at home mum. But with the research about the
long-term vascular and neurological effects of Covid-19, I am not willing to take
this risk.

Public health messaging.
Because of the lack of public health messaging, I have heard from other
families that it is ok to circulate with Covid symptoms if they aren't bothering
you, that it's better if it spreads in your household so you all get it, that it's part
of early childhood for the family to be sick every other week to "build
immunity".
There needs to be more public health messaging about the importance of clean
air for reducing illness, what masks do and when to wear them (I'm not asking
for mandatory masking, just mask education), the long term effects of Covid on
the vascular and neurological systems, the rate of long Covid per infection and
the risk of repeat infections, infection periods, the need to RAT test over a few
days, that the hygiene hypothesis is false.

If there was effective public health messaging and childcare and educational
institutions implemented clean air monitoring and standards I might be able to
go back to work. If this was more widespread I might participate in the local
economy more, I might travel more.

I am currently considering my long term plans. From what I understand the
education system is struggling with labour shortages. More and more people
are turning to home education. When will I be able to go back to work?

The pandemic has hugely damaged my trust in past and current government to
fulfil their public health responsibilities. There needs to be a way for the
Department of Health to respond to future pandemics without their response
being politicised. I have seen the way the data and metrics have gradually been
hidden from view. Rather than make me forget about the pandemic, it has just
made me trust the governments public health response less. I have seen other
governments for example the German government make statements on the
long-term effects of Covid, I would welcome this from the Australian
government. And other governments continue to publish data and move
forward on clean air measurement and ventilation. I would welcome this from
the Australian government.

I also question why there is no vaccine for under 5's when other countries have
made this accessible. And why more hasn't been done to help people stay at
home when they are unwell
