      Dementia
      Australia8




The Commonwealth Government
Covid-19 Response Inquiry

A Dementia Australia submission

December 12, 2023
Introduction
Dementia Australia is the peak dementia advocacy organisation in Australia and represents the more
than 400,000 people living with all forms of dementia in Australia and the estimated 1.5million people
involved in their support and care.' Our advocacy amplifies the voices of people living with dementia
by sharing their stories and helping inform and inspire others. As the trusted source of information,
education and support services, we advocate for positive change for people living with dementia, their
families and carers, and support vital research across a range of dementia-related fields.

Dementia Australia welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the Commonwealth
Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry. Our submission draws on surveys of Dementia Australia
Advocates (people living with dementia, families and carers who volunteer with Dementia Australia),
de-identified data obtained from our National Dementia Helpline, and internal feedback from
Dementia Australia teams engaging with our stakeholders. It is important to acknowledge that the
COVID-19 pandemic affected people living with dementia, families and carers in different and diverse
ways, and that future pandemics would have similarly diverse impacts. However, our surveys and
consultations revealed there were a number of common themes and shared experiences that provide
valuable feedback in shaping planning and responses to public health events in the future.

Our submission focuses on observations and recommendations in relation to three of the terms of
reference:

    •    Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and
         treatments)
    •         Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns
    •         Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
Improved provision of vaccination and reporting measures
Dementia was certified as a pre-existing condition in over 30% of deaths due to COVID-19 in Australia
associated with a chronic condition." The Covid-19 pandemic highlighted the importance of access to
vaccination, particularly for populations more vulnerable to the adverse effects of viruses, including
those living with dementia in residential aged care.

Our stakeholders reported difficulties accessing Covid vaccination for people living with dementia in
the community and residential aged care for a variety of reasons including poor communication,
erroneous assumptions about decision-making for people living with dementia by those planning and
providing vaccinations, failure to consult a support person if vaccination was declined, and inadequate
record keeping and follow up when vaccination opportunities were missed.

Dementia Australia recommends proactive engagement with primary health providers to identify
improved access to vaccinations in community and residential aged care settings, including mobile
vaccination services. Equally, planning for the future must include accurate vaccination status record
keeping ensuring that people living with disabilities, including dementia, have timely and equitable
access to vaccination.

Improved services and supports for people living with dementia, their family members and
carers
Continuity and quality of care is vital for a person living with dementia. The Covid pandemic
highlighted the significant impacts on wellbeing for people living with dementia, and family members
and carers, when care services and supports were reduced or withdrawn.




Page 2 of 4                                                                          © Dementia Australia
Existing issues related to inadequate access to respite services were exacerbated during Covid and
resulted in increased carer fatigue, stress and ill-health, and associated risks of elder abuse incidents
and premature admission to aged care. Future planning for pandemics must address the provision of
adequate support and services, particularly in relation to respite services, to obviate these risks and
support the wellbeing of people living with dementia and those who care for them.

Planning to reduce social isolation and support wellbeing
Dementia Australia surveys over the last decade have revealed that people living with dementia were
almost twice as likely to experience high levels of loneliness compared to the general public, family
carers were significantly lonelier than other carer groups and that feelings of loneliness, social
isolation and illbeing in both these groups increased significantly during the pandemic.iv A Dementia
Australia survey noted that the number of people living with dementia, carers and families who rated
their psychological health as poor or very poor increased from 7 percent prior to COVID-19 to 17
percent during COVID-19.v Loneliness and isolation can accelerate cognitive decline and increase an
individual’s risk of developing dementia in later life. The effects of loneliness and isolation were
compounded for some people living with dementia in rural, regional and remote areas, and from
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island, culturally and linguistically diverse, LGBTIQA+ and other diverse
communities.

Dementia Australia recommends that mitigating isolation and loneliness for people living with
dementia and family carers is identified as a critical priority in future pandemic planning and that
State, Territory and Federal governments facilitate this through strengthening mental health and home
and residential aged care provider services. As part of this prioritisation, Dementia Australia
acknowledges the positive impact of the Australian Government’s ‘Partnerships in Care’ residential
aged care initiative and believes this should be adapted for a range of health care settings, including
acute and hospice care, to support the wellbeing of people living with dementia.7' We believe that
allowing family members, carers and support people to accompany the person with dementia to
hospital can play a critical role in supporting the wellbeing of the person and improving health
outcomes and should be considered as an important component of pandemic planning for acute care
settings.

Embracing innovative models of service and support
The use of video conferencing and smartphone technology was a defining feature of the COVID-19
pandemic. Feedback from our stakeholders indicate that many people living with dementia embraced
the technology before and during the pandemic but for others, including people living with dementia
with hearing and/or vision impairments, the various online platforms proved difficult to navigate and in
some cases, had the effect of deepening feelings of isolation and illbeing.

Noting that many people living with dementia express a preference for face-to-face consultations for
treatment, care and support services, and the diversity of experiences with technology enablers
during the pandemic, in planning for future pandemics, Dementia Australia strongly supports a flexible
model of service and support provision that is responsive to the diverse needs of people living with
dementia. This could include an expansion of the telehealth approach in a range of contexts from
clinical consultations to wellbeing programs, utilising other forms of assistive technology and offering
open air alternatives for support groups, programs and services to ensure individuals remain
connected to health care professionals and have access to appropriate assessment, treatment and
care. Training for health care professionals, people living with dementia, their family members and
carers will be a vital part of pandemic planning to ensure the accessibility and efficacy of these
technological and other options.




Page 3 of 4                                                                            © Dementia Australia
Effective communication of public health information
Studies have shown that communication of health information during the Australian response to
COVID-19 was variable, with critical information not reaching some communities and sectors of the
population, causing unnecessary confusion and frustration and limiting the efficacy of public health
measures including hand hygiene, mask wearing and timely vaccination/" Some of our stakeholders
reported that information was not available or accessible, and that changes in health advice were at
times confusing to people living with dementia, and their family members and carers.7'"

In planning for future pandemics, Dementia Australia supports an approach that tailors health
information so that it is accessible and comprehensible for all sectors of the population. For people
living with dementia, this could include but is not limited to information that accommodates the needs
of people with linguistic and comprehension differences, and vision, hearing and cognitive
impairments. Partnering with peak bodies such as Dementia Australia and people living with dementia
should be considered in the developing information in appropriate formats.

Conclusion
For many people living with dementia, their family members and carers, ‘life with Covid-19’ was
difficult. The social isolation and disruption to important services and programs had a significant
impact on safety, wellbeing and quality of life and for some individuals, even with the resumption of
services and supports, life has continued to be challenging.

The Covid-19 pandemic highlighted the vulnerabilities in our health and aged care systems, and the
specific gaps in services and supports for people living with dementia, their family members and
carers. Equally, it has offered an opportunity to reflect on how responses to a future pandemic might
be improved. We hope that our emphasis on the rights, dignity and wellbeing of people living with
dementia, their family members and carers and associated recommendations, makes a contribution in
this context.

Thank you for considering our submission to this inquiry and we would welcome the opportunity to
discuss any of the issues raised in our submission in more detail.

The Dementia Australia Policy team can be contacted on policyteam@dementia.org.au


  AIHW (2023) Dementia in Australia, https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/dementia/dementia-in-aus/contents/summary
   "Australian Bureau of Statistics, (2022), Deaths due to COVID-19: Associated causes, pre-existing chronic conditions,
https://www.abs.gov.au/articles/covid-19-mortality-australia-deaths-registered-until-30-november-2022#deaths-due-to-covid-19-associated-
causes-pre-existing-chronic-conditions
    Dementia Australia, Dementia and loneliness, (2016) https://www.dementia.org.au/media-releases/dementia-and-loneliness .
iv Dementia Australia (2020), One Day the Care was Gone. https://www.dementia.org.au/sites/default/files/2020-11/PFOD-Discussion-Paper-
Nov-2020-ver1.pdf
v Dementia Australia (2020), One Day the Care was Gone. Retrieved from Dementia Australia:
https://www.dementia.org.au/sites/default/files/2020-11/PFOD-Discussion-Paper-Nov-2020-ver1 .pdf
vi Australian Government. (2022). Partnerships in Care Fact Sheet. Retrieved from Aged Care Quality and Safety Commission:
https://www.agedcarequality.gov.au/sites/default/files/media/partnerships-in-care-fact-sheet.pdf
vii National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, ANU College of Health and Medicine (2023). Health messaging and
migrant Australians: barriers and opportunities during COVID-19 and beyond

viii Dementia Australia (2022), The impact of and responses to the Omicron wave of the COVID-19 pandemic for people with disability A
submission to the Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People with Disability.
https://www.dementia.org.au/sites/default/files/2022-07/The-impact-and-response-to-the-omicron-wave-of-the-COVID-pandemic-
2022BRNDAPPVD.pdf




Page 4 of 4                                                                                                       © Dementia Australia
