I had to manage in my workplace an individual who had a severe life-threatening reaction
(myocarditis) to the Covid injections (Pfizer). This created huge mental health and real-life health
problems to all involved. The individual could not get a medical exemption for the second shot and
felt threatened they would lose their livelihood and their job. There was general disbelief and silence
in the organisation when I supported this individual and explained the situation. There was no
assistance provided. I was ostracised for raising this issue and for supporting an individual who had a
serious condition that can cause death and at the very least permanent damage to the heart. The
physical harm and mental health issues caused by this most basic contravention of human rights and
human decency is massive. It must never happen again.

My recommendations are as follows:

    1.   The government must stop using experimental drugs and giving provisional approval.
         Thorough detailed trials with no short cuts must be undertaken. Do not use the term "Safe
         and effective" when there is no independent scientific evidence to support this.
    2.   Set up proper independent surveillance for all new drugs to measure adverse reactions and
         make this information publicly available. This must not be managed by the pharmaceutical
         companies. There is no reason why this could not have been done for all the COVID
         injections.
    3.       Stop fearmongering and misinformation by the government.
    4.   Stop all conflict of interest and stop pharmaceutical companies lobbying in government.
         Make the TGA independent and stop funding from the Pharmaceuticals.
    5.       Stop giving legal indemnity to pharmaceutical companies and the medical profession.

I enclose references for review to support the above recommendations.

Please note that due to the government narrative I have left this submission anonymous to protect
the privacy of individual and to ensure that I do not receive adverse criticism, bullying and
condemnation from work colleagues and the general public.
