  COUNCIL OF ACADEMIC PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALALSIA | COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION | DEC 15, 2023


CAPHIA Submission
The Council of Academic Public Health Institutions Australia (CAPHIA) is the peak body representing universities and aligned
organisations across the region who teach and research public health (refer to Appendix 1 for details). While there are many
lessons to be learned from the COVID-19 pandemic, we recognise that no two eventswill be the same. Our submission focuses
on our core expertise: public health education, research, and workforce development. Investing in our workforce, and in key
enablers and their systems and infrastructure is the best way to protect current and future generations. Australia's public
health workforce was instrumental to our nation's strong response to COVID-19. Many of the public health experts on whom
we came to rely throughout the pandemic were educated by and/or work for the institutions CAPHIA represents and the
education and training provided by CAPHIA member institutions has underpinned the Australasian response to COVID-19.
We emphasise that the following recommendations can only be met by recognising the key role of public health institutions,
and the imperative for governments to commit support through financial investment. We similarly assert that there should
be a strong expectation of action from schools and programs of public health by the government, forming the basis of a
collaborative and coordinated effort. CAPHIA welcomes this opportunity to share our recommendations to build our desired
future state: a sustainable, scalable, appropriately resourced, and highly educated public health workforce to actively manage
all hazards. See Appendix 2 for an Executive Summary and Appendix 3 for References.

Foster cross-sector collaboration and transparent information-sharing for improved
communication and decision-making.
    1.      Systematically include diverse perspectives and expertise in decision-making.
    2.   Enhance and standardise the collection, sharing and accessibility of qualitative and quantitative data;
         connect and leverage the substantial health data sets that organisations and registers hold to better
         inform decisi n making >r the benefit rf all Australians and;
    3.   Establish partnerships between researchers, health departments and ethics c mmitteest enable timely
         research to inform ongoing resp nse.
The Covid-19 pandemic had a significant impact on every Australian and across every sector. Government needs to be able
to call upon trusted experts across sectors and disciplines to enable policy and decision-making which effectively balances
the intended or unintended social, ethical, economic, and other consequences of crises, emergencies and disasters (CEDs)
and their policy responses. This requires systematic inclusion of diverse experts in decision-making including epidemiologists,
disease experts, data scientists, health economists, ethicists, behavioral and social scientists, sociologists, anthropologists,
and communication experts. Experience from other crises has highlighted that engaging with the sociocultural dimensions of
CEDs is critical to mounting an effective outbreak response. In addition, consultation with non-health professionals who
perform key functions during crises such as IT and data infrastructure experts, community and social workers, educators,
emergency responders, sanitation etc. In any CED, rapid evidence synthesis is essential for ensuring accurate and informative
communication. Evidence synthesis experts skilled at critically appraising evidence and communicating it in ways that can be
readily understood and practically applied by policymakers, clinicians and the public are essential. Data is a key enablerto the
success of our preparedness and a unified and transparent information-sharing approach is necessary. Standardised data
protocols which bridge gaps, streamline communication within and between all levels of Government, and which ensure
healthcare workers and the public receive consistent guidance is crucial. Shared and robust surveillance systems capable of
undertaking the required volume of data collection and reporting of case and contact data during a pandemic is also essential
to enable evidence-based decisions in a rapidly evolving environment, and pre-established partnerships and processes
researchers, health departments and ethics committees could help ensure timely research to inform response.

    4.   Establish advisory bodies with diverse community representation, build capacity for ethical deliberation
         and dialogue, and develop and fund < -designed p licies and initiatives.
    5.   Fund grants ft trusted local and community health organisations to develop Crisis, Emergency and
         Disaster Response Plans
The COVID-19 pandemic exposed a pre-existing gap in health communication and community engagement. Culturally and
Linguistically Diverse (CALD) communities faced I    rier: (e.g. language, technological) to accessing culturally safe, relevant
and timely information, while also being often at greater risk of contracting COVID-19. In August 2020, public health messages

                                                               1
    COUNCIL OF ACADEMIC PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALALSIA | COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION | DEC 15, 2023


were released with trai la          ror: which jeopardised trust and risked the safety of these communities, deepening
inequities. Tailored, community-led health communication can be more effective in promoting health-protecting behaviours,
and in understanding the determinants of spread during a pandemic. The success of Indigenous communities and health
services in protecting Elders during the first COVID waves in Australia was widely reported. This success was in part due to
proactive, culturally appropriate communication by Aboriginal-led organisations. Strengthened and ongoing engagement
with community organisations and consultation with trusted community leaders, will ensure all Australians have access to
accurate, timely and appropriate information from trusted, accessible sources. Targeted funding to develop CED Response
Plans will enable local community organizations to build response capability, and more comprehensive plans with risk
assessment and risk communication better embedded will help to improve alignment with national response plans.


Invest in comprehensive public health training for effective policy guidance and address the
leadership gap.
     6.      Fund and Implement Public Health Officer Training Programs in each State and Territory
Few public health experts are systematically trained in the depth and breadth of public health expertise required to lead large
and complex portfolios - particularly during CEDs. Fellowships are a tried-and-tested method of developing and maintaining
individual competence in a health or medical specialisation. To develop the desired future public health workforce,
investment in Public Health specialisation needs to occur. State/territory-based Public Health Officer Training Programs
should be immediately implemented to develop a pipeline of highly trained public health professionals. This program could
be modelled on ongoing success in h        as well as pilot programs in WA and VIC, and include competencies such as ethical
reasoning, reasoning with data (beyond data science competencies) and public engagement and communication which will
be crucial to ensure the success of future responses. Further, diversified recruitment into these programs across educational
backgrounds will help meet specific subspecialty needs, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health. The
Health Associatcn of Australia (PHAA) recently est Tated that funding of $50 million per annum is sufficient for substantial
impact. Given the investment into medical Fellowships is many times this figure, and that decisions and work of Public Health
professionals impacts potentially millions of Australians, this is a sound leadership investment to address future challenges.

7. Fund mici o credentials or short courses to upskill and re-skill workers in key skill gaps.
Rapid education, training and upskilling are essential parts of pandemic preparedness and response. COVID-19 demonstrated
a skill gap in the Australian workforce including:
•    Ethical deliberation, decision-making and communication: Public compliance rests on trust and shared values. It is
     essential that all public health responders are skilled in communicating effectively, responding to complexity and
     uncertainty, and balancing the diversity of public abilities and views.
•    Cultural competencies, and diversity and inclusion training: to promote greater understanding and consideration of
     cultural differences and varying vulnerabilities during CEDs.
•    Health economists and evidence synthesis experts: to guide pragmatic evidence-informed policy.
•    Leadership: to equip public health professionals at all levels skilled at communicating risk and providing trusted advice.
•    Applied systems thinking capacity for working in complex and evolving environments.
•    Health and eHealth literaxy, advocacy and infodemic management;
•    Genomics and bioinformatics, and increased awareness of Dual Use Research of Concern risks for informed advocacy;
•    Expertise in big data and Al which will expand quickly as important tools for charting disease threats, and
•    Essential training in basic infectious disease principles for prevention and control such as outbreak investigation,
     contact tracing must be provided as a shared resource across all jurisdictions to improve readiness and reduce variation.

8. Invest in < llaborative, interpr fessional and intersect ral training and partnerships.
Collaborative, high-fidelity simulation training could help to identify experts, strengthen cross sectoral partnerships, and
strengthen surge workforce capacity. This style of training enables real-world practice elements such as language and time
zone barriers, infodemic risk, and rapid development of cross-disciplinary teams, while building cross-professional



                                                                2
      COUNCIL OF ACADEMIC PUBLIC HEALTH INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALALSIA | COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION | DEC 15, 2023


 understanding, and providing the best opportunity to explore ethical and practical discussion and deliberation. This training
 is needed before the next event to strengthen our response capabilities and infrastructure.

9.    Provide government-funded training to equip decisi n makers, policymakers, and leaders with fundamental
   public health skills.
Public health decisions and the dissemination of public health information are not only made by those within public health,
but also those working in adjacent fields. Supporting professionals from all sectors to respond to the heightened complexity
and urgency of current and future public health challenges is an important mechanism for a coordinated, rapid response.
Short courses and micro-credentials equip decision makers, policymakers, and leaders from all sectors, with the public health
knowledge and skills required to enhance decision-making and support cross-sector collaboration.

1i Invest in Infodemic management infrastructure, capacity and skills development.
11. Devel a an awareness campaign t< build the profile f Public Health and drive trust, understanding and
    uptake of initiatives.
 An infoi    : is the overload of information, accurate or otherwise, that spreads in the physical or digital space during an
 acute health event. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the infodemic emerged as a significant public health issue, impacting
vaccine acceptance, adherence to preventative measures and trust in health authorities. Infodemic management is an
emergent field, now integrated into global pandemic preparedness guidelines including the WHO HE                framework, the
Pandemic influenza preparedness framework and the framework for vaccine demand promotion and is a new focus area in
the 2nd edition of Managing epidemics. In Australia, we know that the social determinants of health, and mistrust in authorities
impact infodemic and are driven by discrepancies in values. Urgent, targeted investment in research, infrastructure and
capacity building is required to better understand, chart and respond to infodemics, build resilience to misinformation,
actively address dis-information, develop social listening systems, and deliver innovative ways to connect communities with
reliable and trusted health information. An awareness of what Public Health is and does builds trust and understanding, and
uptake of initiatives. Establishing something akin to ' iis    Public He Ith' could increase public trust and health literacy in
Australia, while highlighting the core values of public health which exists to improve health outcomes for all.


 Urgently invest in prevention to minimise risk and reduce health inequities.
12. Iring forward the 5% for preventive health commitment from 2030 to 2025 or pr vide interim funding to
      address determinants of health inequities.
13. Include Non-Communicable Diseases in Phase 1 of the Australian Centre for Disease * mtrol
 Emergency events are "inequity amplifiers": populations who have been made vulnerable through determinants of health,
 carry the greater burden of morbidity and mortality during and after a crisis. The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the crucial
 relationship between communicable and non-communicable disease (NCDs), and the high burden that NCDs place on health
 and resources. Globally, individuals with underlying health conditions were at increased risk of severe COVID-19, if they
 became infected. The pandemic also disproportionately impacted underserved populations (e.g. overseas-born individuals
 and socially and economically disadvantaged populations), highlighting the need to bring an intersectional lens to infectious
 preparedness and response. Long-term investment in health prevention and promotion now will help to best support the
 promotion, and protection of the health of all Australians and ensure we are best prepared for future pandemics, health
 emergencies and other public health threats. Re-orienting the health system towards prevention would deliver a significant
 increase in return on investment, while also boosting community health and wellbeing and tackling inequality. Structural
 change is needed to establish clear mechanisms which assess and recommend the best investments in disease prevention,
 and to ensure they are sustainably and sufficiently funded. As recommended in our submission in response to the Roles and
 Functions of an Australian Centre for Disease Control, the commitment to increase investment in preventive health should
 be brought forward to 2025 or earlier. Further, investment in public health and preventative health should be significantly
 increased and sustained outside of election and policy cycles to genuinely enhance our preparedness and improve our
 biosecurity posture. Increasing the baseline health of Australians will reduce the severity and impact of health CEDs.

     CAPHIA advises the government to adopt these recommendations and welcomes an invitation for further consultation.

                                                               3
                                                                        ABN: 58 408 229 415
                                                                        caphia@caphia.com.au

                                                                            caphia.com.au
 COUNCIL OF ACADEMIC PUBLIC HEALTH
     INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALASIA                                             +61 404 757 599




                                                          Appendix 1: About CAPHIA


Written submission in response to:


          COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT
           COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
ABOUT CAPHIA

The Council of Academic Public Health Institutions Australasia (CAPHIA) is the peak
organisation that works to advance public health education, research and workforce
development. CAPHIA leads and represents public health in universities throughout the
Australasian region, and across our 39 member institutions, we represent thousands of
public health educators, researchers, and students. CAPHIA acknowledges the Traditional
Custodians of the country throughout Australia and their connections to land, sea and
community, and recognise their past and ongoing contributions to generation of knowledge
systems. We work in partnership with First Nations people across Australasia to promote
quality, culturally safe education in public health.


SUBMISSION FOCUS




       Foster cross-sector         Invest in comprehensive        Urgently invest in prevention
collaboration and transparent      public health training for     to minimise risk and reduce
    information sharing for        effective policy guidance           health inequities
 improved communication &         and address the leadership
        decision-making                      gap


   A PH TA              C0UNCIL0FACADEMIC PUBUC HEALTH INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALASIA
     1 1 1 1/1.        Advancing Public Health Education, Research & Workforce Development
                                                                                      ABN: 58 408 229 415
                                                                                    caphia@caphia.com.au
COUNCIL OF ACADEMIC PUBLIC HEALTH                                                       +61 404 757 599
    INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALASIA


                                                          Appendix 2: Executive Summary
                                                        Summary of recommendations in response to:

                    COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19
                                    RESPONSE INQUIRY
          J    Foster cross-sector collaboration and transparent information-
    nnn sharing for improved communication and decision-making.
   O Systematically include diverse perspectives and expertise in decision-making
   0 Enhance and standardise the collection, sharing and accessibility of qualitative and quantitative
        data; connect and leverage the substantial health data sets that organisations and registers hold
        to better inform decision making for the benefit of all Australians
   0    Establish partnerships between researchers, health departments and ethics committees to
        enable timely research to inform ongoing response
    O   Establish advisory bodies with diverse community representation, build capacity for ethical
        deliberation and dialogue, and develop and fund co-designed policies and initiatives
    0   Fund grants for trusted local and community health organisations to develop Crisis, Emergency
        and Disaster Response Plans


              Invest in comprehensive public health training for effective policy
              guidance and address the leadership gap.
   0 Fund and implement Public Health Officer Training Programs in each State and Territory
   O Fund micro credentials or short courses to upskill and re-skill workers in key skill gaps
   0 Invest in collaborative, interprofessional and intersectoral training and partnerships
   0 Provide government-funded training to equip decision makers, policymakers, and leaders with
     fundamental public health skills.
   O Invest in Infodemic management infrastructure, capacity, and skills development.
   0 Develop an awareness campaign to build the profile Public Health and drive trust,
     understanding and uptake of initiatives


               Urgently invest in prevention to minimise risk and reduce health
                iequ es.

   0 Bring forward the 5% for preventive health commitment from 2030 to 2025 or provide interim
     funding to address determinants of health inequities.
   0 Include Non Communicable Diseases in Phase 1 of the Australian Centre for Disease Control

     We urge the Government to urgently invest in the infrastructure of key
    enablers to reduce risk and better prepare and respond to the next event.
    These enablers include IT, data, education and training, preventive health,
                       communications and the workforce.
Appendix 3: References
Gurnett, T., Prokopovich, K., Ivers, R., Cullerton, K., Stekelenburg, N. and Slevin, T. (2022), Government support and
commitment to university-level public health education, research and workforce development is critical. Australian
and New Zealand Journal of Public Health, 46: 417-418. https://doi.org/10.llll/1753-6405.13244

Middleton, J., Biberman, D., Magana, L, Saenz, R., Low, W. Y., Adongo, R, Kolt, G. S., & Surenthirakumaran, R. (2021).
Global Governance for Improved Human, Animal, and Planetary Health: The Essential Role of Schools and Programs
of Public Health. Public health reviews, 42, 1604610. https://doi.org/10.3389/phrs.2021.1604610

Venables, E., & Pellecchia, U. (2017). Engaging Anthropology in an Ebola Outbreak: Case Studies from West Africa.
Anthropology in Action, 24(2), 1-8. Retrieved Dec 13, 2023, from https://doi.org/10.3167/aia.2017.240201

Wilkinson, A., Parker, M., Martineau, F., & Leach, M. (2017). Engaging 'communities': anthropological insights from
the West African Ebola epidemic. Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological
sciences, 372(1721), 20160305. http5://doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2016.0305

Carlson, S. J., Edwards, G., Blyth, C. C., Nattabi, B., & Attwell, K. (2022). 'Corona is coming': COVID-19 vaccination
perspectives and experiences amongst Culturally and Linguistically Diverse West Australians. Health expectations : an
international journal of public participation in health care and health policy, 25(6), 3062-3072.
https://doi.org/10.llll/hex.13613

Dalzell, S. (2020). Federal Government used Google Translate for COVID-19 messaging aimed at multicultural
communities. ABC News, https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-ll-19/government-used-google-translate-for-
nonsensical-covid-19-tweet/12897200

Haseltine, W. A. (2021). Protecting Indigenous Populations From Covid-19: The Australian Example. Forbes.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/williamhaseltine/2021/05/05/protecting-indigenous-populations-from-covid-19-the-
australian-example/?sh=13b3ab23801f

Finlay, S., & Wenitong, M. (2020). Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisations are taking a leading role in
COVID-19 health communication. Australian and New Zealand journal of public health, 44(4), 251-252.
https://doi.org/10.llll/1753-6405.13010

NSW Health. (2016). NSW Public Health Training Program. New South Wales Health Centre for Epidemiology and
Evidence. Retrieved 13/12/2023 from https://www.health.nsw.gov.aU/training/phot/Pages/default.aspx#

Government of Western Australia Department of Health. (2023). WA Public Health Officer Training Program.
Retrieved 13/12/2023 from https://www.health.wa.gov.au/Articles/LJ Z/WA-Public-Health-Officer-Training-
Program#:~:text=The%20three%2Dyear%20program%20will,by%20a%20certificate%20of%20completion .

VicHealth. (2023). VicHealth Fellowship Program. Retrieved 13/12/2023 from
https://www.vichealth.vic.gov.au/funding/vichealth-fellowship-program

Public Health Association Australia (PHAA). (2023). 2023: the Year to Deliver on Public Health. PHAA.
https://www.phaa.net.au/common/Uploaded%20files/Submissions%202023/PHAA%20Submisson%20-
%20230131%20-%20Treasury%20-%20Pre%20Budget%202023.pdf

Purnat, T. D., Nguyen, T, & Briand, S. (2023). Managing Infodemics in the 21st Century. Springer Nature.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-27789-4

Islam, M. S., Sarkar, T, Khan, S. H., Mostofa Kamal, A., Hasan, S. M. M., Kabir, A., Yeasmin, D., Islam, M. A., Amin
Chowdhury, K. I., Anwar, K. S., Chughtai, A. A., & Seale, H. (2020). COVID-19-Related Infodemic and Its Impact on
Public Health: A Global Social Media Analysis. The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 103(4), 1621­
1629. Retrieved Dec 13, 2023, from https://doi.org/10.4269/ajtmh.20-0812

Murphy, K., McCarthy, M., Sargeant, E., & Williamson, H. (2022). COVID-19 Conspiracies, Trust in Authorities, and
Duty to Comply with Social Distancing Restrictions. International Criminology, 2(1), 44-58.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43576-021-00042-x
World Health Organization (WHO). (2023). Pandemic influenza preparedness framework: partnership contribution
high-level implementation plan III 2024-2030. https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240070141

UNICEF. (2023). Integration of COVID-19 vaccination into routine immunization and primary health care (Operational
Framework for Demand Promotion - Integration, Issue. https://www.technet-
21.org/en/resources/guidance/operational-framework-for-demand-promotion-integration

World Health Organization (WHO). (2023a). Managing epidemics: key facts about major deadly diseases, 2nd edition
https://www.who.int/publica tions/i/item/9789240083196

Pickles, K., Cvejic, E., Nickel, B., Copp, T., Bonner, C., Leask, J., Ayre, J., Batcup, C., Cornell, S., Dakin, T., Dodd, R. H.,
Isautier, J. M. J., & McCaffery, K. J. (2021). COVID-19 Misinformation Trends in Australia: Prospective Longitudinal
National Survey. J Med Internet Res, 23(1), e23805. https://doi.org/10.2196/23805

Fredericks, B., Bradfield, A., McAvoy, S., Ward, J., Spierings, S., Combo, T., & Toth-Peter, A. (2023). The Burden of the
Beast: Countering Conspiracies and Misinformation within Indigenous Communities in Australia . M/C Journal, 25(1).
https://doi.org/10.5204/mcj.2862 (Original work published March 16, 2022)

Hooker, C., & Leask, J. (2020). Risk Communication Should be Explicit About Values. A Perspective on Early
Communication During COVID-19. Journal of bioethical inquiry, 17(4), 581-589. https://doi.org/10.1007/sll673-020-
   25

World Health Organization (WHO). (2021). WHO public health research agenda for managing infodemics.
https://www.who.int/publica tions/i/item/9789240019508

Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health (ASPPH). (2023). This is Public Health. Retrieved 13/12/2023
from https://thisispublichealth.aspph.org/

The Lancet (2020). COVID-19: a new lens for non-communicable diseases. Lancet (London, England), 396(10252),
649. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(20)31856-0

Masters, R., Anwar, E., Collins, B., Cookson, R., & Capewell, S. (2017). Return on investment of public health
interventions: a systematic review. Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health, 71(8), 827.
https://doi.org/10.1136/jech-2016-208141

Council of Academic Public Health Institutions Australasia (CAPHIA). (2022). Written submission in response to the
role and functions of an Australian Centre for Disease Control, https://caphia.com.au/wp-
content/uploads/2022/12/FINAL-SIGNED-CAPHIA-Submission -Roles-and-Functions-of-an-Australian-CDC-2022.pdf
