Submission for Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry



Date 14th December 2023.




With only a 1/4 hour of time in learning of this submission and having any time to submit
something for it I can only say the following.
   • There were alternative health options available that could have been used besides
       coerced vaccinations. These were put forward by professionals and ignored even
       ridiculed. This should never happen. Seek these alternatives, they are out there, just as
       effective if not more effective, and certainly much safer. With evidence and support
       and statistics to back them up.
   • The laws broken by coercion were simply criminal. This should NEVER happen
       again. The rights and privacy and autonomy of an Australian citizen is not available
       acceptable to be removed.
   • Use education instead of propaganda. And use actual people correctly qualified with
      training and experience to educate people rather than propaganda and fear mongering
      by news, politicians and pharmaceutical companies with nothing but dollar signs and
      bottom lines to worry about. Without actual evidence based information forthcoming I
       could only seek my own, and what I found was gross inaccuracies is what was being
       fear mongered to the population. Trust is no longer existent unfortunately.
   • The financial benefit to those with the loudest voice and most to gain should never be
       listened to over other professional and experienced medical scientists and doctors and
       specialists. Even an average GP’s opinion should be listened to, they are face to face
      with the actual problems. Thousands of experienced professionals around the world
      were silenced yet have actual real evidence to support their alternatives.
   • I cannot produce them right here right now, but there are a number of independent and
       non-profit studies and statistics published which clearly indicate the “safe and
       effective” statements were untrue. Ie. people died and have permanent and semi
      permanent injuries from the vaccines. Countless more than ever reported and
       acknowledged. This should be investigated fully and accountability brought to those
      who covered things up.
   • Nor can I produce a specific document right now, but there are plenty independently
       out there, unbiased and highlighting the vaccines were not proven to be safe. Nor
       could have been. While other alternatives to broader health and immunity were
       ignored or outright banned. Many healthy people were pigeon holed into the masses.

The lack of supporting docs in this submission is not an indication they do not exist.

I am out of time. This was all I had time to write down between learning of this inquiry and
the deadline for submissions with the workload I already have this week.

Please note, the manner in which this inquiry is launched, with ‘minimal’ advertising or
coverage of its existence, and then the extremely short time frame for making submissions
simply makes it look as though it was planned in a way they few would know about it and /
or have time to make a submission. Particularly in the close approach to the Christmas
period. The government response again looks to be extremely deceitful in a deliberate way.
This must stop also.
