Inquiry into the Covid-19 response.

I am very grateful to be able to submit my view however looking at the "terms of reference" it
appears this inquiry has nothing to do with how the measures impacted living men and women but
how the government succeeded in their draconian measures. I'm sorry but no sweet language when
describing exactly what went down and truth. Trying to keep to 3 pages is a huge struggle, as there
are many links. Recently our TGA have been found to not report an ingredient in the Covid-19 jab of
SV-40? This is a genetically modified ingredient which has to go through that agency before being
approved. However when a network of professionals provide data for the public they are shut down.
Why is this? This is not misinformation. This is relevant information from "experts", term the
government like to use.

I also wonder a panel of three (3) independents are selected for the inquiry with a government
taskforce? Non-specific of how many are in the government task force?

So in "terms of reference" can mostly speak to last bullet point:

    •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
        (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
        with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
        linguistically diverse communities).

I believe the government did overreach in targeting these people through lockdown and lock up e.g.
            and Melbourne apartments, rounding up small communities and bringing them to camp to
then inject them I'm sure without consent. Can we see the data on these communities that had
these medical procedures enforced upon them? Are they still alive? How is their health today? For
some reason the government also thought it was within its right to enforce these measures. I find
this extraordinary as they have no jurisdiction. You have to get the people's consent and this was
never done.

I draw your attention to the following items which I sent back in August 2021 and requested from
five federal MP's via a registered letter asking them to explain why they had ignored their contents
and why the information contained within them was not made available to the general public:

• Letter from concerned lawyers network which was sent to the PM and all Federal and State
Ministers dated 6 November 2020 to which a response has not yet been received.
https://concernedlawyersnetwork.net/

• The Harrison report - pandemic -profit- fallout submitted to the Senate Select Committee re
Inquiry into Australian Government Response to Covidl9 Pandemic in May 2020.
www.constitutionwatch.com.au/?s=Harrison+report

Notice of request for formal public explanation regarding:

• Who - dictates and formulates the information that you pass on the living men and women of
Australia via the media?

• Which - global organisations have dictated and influenced the Australian Government's

Covid 19 response?

• Why - does the information given to the public regarding the pandemic, PCR testing, masking,
social distancing, lockdowns and vaccines, consist only of one narrative, while the scientific evidence
of over 100,000 other highly regarded experts in the fields of Virology, Immunology, Microbiology,
Psychology, and many other relevant areas is completely ignored?

I the undersigned, and on behalf of thousands of concerned living men and women of Australia,
make a formal complaint and request a response regarding the following:

The virus:

    • I strongly question the validity of the pandemic narrative presented by both the NSW and
         Federal Governments and associated media, regarding the existence of Covidl9 as a deadly
        and dangerous virus as the science proves that no such virus has been isolated.
    • I observe that the numbers of deaths have been vastly inflated as the science has repeatedly
        proven a 99(+) % percent survival rate for this "disease" and aligns it with a slightly heavier
        than normal flu season as supported by the 2020 global death rates comparisons to previous
        years. (CDC, WHO).
    • I further observe a frenzy of panic and fear when "cases" and deaths are reported in the
         media, when the vast majority of these "cases" are asymptomatic - i.e., not sick or infected -
         and do not pass on any illness. I believe that the State and Federal Governments have been
         complicit in spreading fear and panic throughout our communities and have engaged in
         subversive and biased rhetoric.
    • I believe that the State and Federal Governments have been negligent in their efforts to
         uncover the complete range of information regarding the virus, and further, to pass on that
         information to the public - in order for them to be fully informed.
    • It is my will that you, as our elected members, provide complete transparency regarding this
         issue.

References:

Study: CDC Broke Federal Law by Manipulating COVID Death Statistics:

https://vaccineimpact.com/2021/studv-cdc-broke-federal-law-bv-manipulating-covid-
deathstatistics/

Here is a link of one such whistle-blower from CDC in 2014 Dr Thompson on the fraudulent changing
of data of a trial showing the link between Autism and MMR.
https://www.ageofautism.com/2014/08/statement-from-william-thompson-re-pediatrics-mmr-
african-american-males-data.html?cmid=06119506-2621-4f75-b058-e6a47a5al0a7

Another such brave whistle blower and expert is ^^^^^^Hfrom New Zealand, being the
Administrator at the Ministry of Health Department, where his role consisted of analysing data from
the collection gathered with the database he created. He did not expose the data in breach of
privacy as this information is for the public. Government should be transparent shouldn't it?

 It's to do with what you will be doing now and that is reviewing how much of an impact did these
measures have on the living men and women. Statistics. Sorry to say but it was clear cut that after a
jab at a clinic there were many lives lost due to this ridiculous measure. Please refer to both^^^H
                  work on data. It is inhumane to go on with this insanity. Please walk among your
constituents as you will find every one of them has been affected whether vaccinated or not. The
ridiculous fear brought into living men and women's lives and then the huge loss we are seeing every
day with deaths. All these ridiculous media reports of people dying suddenly, and how sneezing can
cause a heart attack. Turbo cancers, heart conditions in young people,
              as well as other pregnancy issues. We have fewer babies now due to the whole
pandemic, nothing again to do with the fact it is still being pushed as safe for pregnant women. Yet
no data shows this. Go google it. Nothing. We are very unique and have lived for centuries without
man's interference to nature as when man does, it usually gets messed up. Agree? I do. Again to
quickly summarise as we only get 3 pages. As an example of not buying into the fear campaign. I
worked through the whole covid lockdown                         as my occupation prior to the
lockdowns. I immediately got a medical exemption for face masks which I provided to both police
and       through my travels. I also advised^^B that I would not be wearing a mask before
entering^^^^^B so । knew everyone was comfortable and we had an agreement. Here is a link for
one of many facts of face masks.

 "In our systematic review, we identified 10 RCTs (Randomised Controlled Trials) that reported
estimates of the effectiveness efface masks in reducing laboratory-confirmed influenza virus
infections in the community from literature published during 1946-July T1, 2018... In pooled
analysis, we found no significant reduction in influenza transmission with the use of face masks...Our
systematic review found no significant effect of face masks on transmission of laboratory-confirmed
influenza.... Proper use of face masks is essential because improper use might increase the risk for
transmission https://wwwnc.cdc.gOv/eid/article/26/5/19-0994 article

CDC state this but don't go further into the hindrance it actually has on people's health. Within a 15
minute period there are all sorts of bacteria, germs, on that facial mask after wearing it. Then the
government didn't provide Hazard Bins to collect these filthy things which then became an eyesore
as well as a detriment to the environment. Only this week again a bag had somehow been dropped
on the main street, so filthy masks everywhere.

Of course I never did the PCR test as I researched that see below. Here is link for your reference to
look into PCR testing. A global team of experts has found 10 fatal flaws in the main test for Covid and
is demanding it's urgently axed. As they should https://www.rt.com/op-ed/508383-fatal-flaws-
covid-test/L

In my        I would constantly share this with people as I found it amazing that government was
insisting on this regime when                 himself who designed this testing always said it cannot
be used to test for a virus. He got a Nobel Peace Prize for its design, yet ignore. He suspiciously died
in August 2019.

On August 7th 20211 had sent this question plus more information to five official government
appointments asking after observing a report from Dr^^^^^^^|and                            July
2021 showing that this virus has not been isolated nor is the PCR test relative to use for testing a
virus. Here is the link of that interview

https://rumble.com/vis7pt-a-manufactured-illusion.-dr-david-martin-with-reiner-fuellmich-9-7-
21.html

As a mother and long-time advocate of choices I would like to bring your attention to the
importance of doing your research in the matter of vaccines. I started vaccinating my children as per
the childhood schedule run by the TGA and Big Pharma. All owned by Blackrock, and who owns that?
My ^^^^^^fwere then injured after the MMR vaccine. They are both diagnosed with^^^^
Just look at the Stats on that to know the hindrance it has on the health system and that if vaccines
worked why are there more and more of our children injured? Now I'm not the only family who has
gone through this trauma. Some families actually lose their babies after the        their first vaccine.
They die. There are many of us out there that mainstream media (who are owned by big pharma)
don't share their sad news. There are groups out there where we support each other, but again the
councils and mainstream like to make us look like mad men and women with the label the
government have given us as Anti-vaxxers. Yet we didn't not take the vax we discovered after taking
it that our child was injured. Thanks for that. If our trauma isn't enough. We become not just
mothers, but Carers and Advocates for our children, and never get to work again as there is "no
compensation". We are Pro Choice if you want to label us.

I'm a big advocate of Robert F Kennedy Jr as he was the first man who I found many years ago, being
a Litigating Lawyer in Science and bringing attention to the Mercury in Vaccines and the harm it is
causing. He still is advocating for us. He joined up with the Worldwide Doctors Alliance whom have
sent letters to governments to stop what they are doing in relation to this monster vaccine for
COVID-19. I'm for pro safety. Where we have no choice, lose your job if you don't jab, then I demand
that we have the safety data provided. The science paper. The same science paper that "freedom of
information act" cannot provide of COVID*19 from Australian government health department.
Apparently there is no document to show that COVID-19 exists???? Are your alarm bells going yet,
or are you part of the mob mentality and getting paid way too much to bother. I hope not. I hope
you have a conscious and get off your knees and look at the facts, as a law abiding representative of
Australia. This has to stop. We the people ask that transparency and the right to choose be
acknowledged.

I know that at University all they learn is this is the Vaccine Schedule and that's it. No learning of
what is in the Vaccine. "What is in the vaccine?" I have a lot of data that show what is in the vaccine
and this current push for COVID-19 which has a 99.9% recovery rate has no viruses in it at all. It is
only to treat symptoms and change your DNA. And that I wrote back in 2021, however we now
know too that the experimental vaccine doesn't even treat symptoms. But with the SV-40 is sure to
change your DNA welcome to Transhumanism.

Look forward to all clear transparent data on how this experiment went on all these particular
populations relevant to "terms of reference" provided.

I believe that

    1.   A full investigation in governments roll. It was all about control of the people. This is not
         democracy. (If it was me I would say please mind your own business.) Don't need their
         interference in my health.
    2.   Expose corrupt vaccine acquisitions and secret contracts with vaccine manufacturers. (Many
         years ago I expressed how Pfizer were in many law suits for their lies costing up to at that
         time $4 billion.)
    3.       Recognise mandates are not law.
    4.       Recognise vaccine injuries and stop gas lighting these poor people that were injured.
    5.   Stop the throat gag held by government TGA and APHRA on doctors and nurses. Again
         control.

It basically comes down to Control, Control, Control. Agenda 2030 http://binged.it/3uf2ONb

Look forward to my submission being made public and response provided.




Without prejudice
All rights reserved
