                                                 COVID SUBMISSION




Terms of Reference

Commonwealth Government Response

State Government Response

Department of Health and Aged Care Services operate a Pharmaceutical revenue system which favoured foreign
vaccine companies. TGA made it difficult for an Australian company Vaxine from supplying a traditional vaccine
(COVAX-19). Department of Health and Aged Care Services needs to be reconstructed and a new Department of
Ethical Health to be established.

SUBMISSION

COVID 19 virus

A Bioweapon gain of function spike protein virus developed by biolabs overseas and released in Wuhan to spread
through the world by travel by air travel. Developed to inflame the lungs and airway and kill sick and elderly people.

AIM

To reduce world's population by up to 15% and to create Government debt and small business closure. Ensure
lucrative payments from governments to pharmaceutical companies and businesses. Lockdown healthy citizens from
work and healthy outdoor activities, shut down small businesses whilst allowing big businesses to remain open and
grow online companies. Allow Governments to create large debts whilst public servants and politicians are paid and
private workers and small business suffer economic loss from lockdowns.

METHOD

Health departments recommended lockdowns and vaccines mandates through public emergency health orders
through a government subsidised media who created an unnecessary fear of COVID in society.

Commonwealth Government did not mandate experimental vaccines but allowed companies and states to mandate
experimental vaccines.

Denied effective treatments such as monoclonal antibodies, hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, vitamin D/C.

Recommended treatments that did not work such as Remdesivir and ventilators

State Governments enforced experimental vaccines to work and obtain services despite being a low risk for under
65's.

COVID VACCINES

COVID vaccines were experimental vaccines produced without testing for effectiveness or transmission admitted in
an EU parliament inquiry.

Ingenious scheme by vaccine companies to make large amounts of money whilst controlling harm caused by vaccines
by using saline for injections.

Too many injuries would have caused vaccine to be pulled from the market and Batches were prepared with various
strengths and saline so as to minimise deaths and not cause a public reaction.

Testing has produced varying number of actual saline vaccines. Figures unknown but estimated between 33% to 93%.

Vaccine companies' contract with Governments with no liability exclusion clauses.

COVID VACCINE CONTENTS
Vaccines contents unknown and Pfizer wanted to hide information for 75 years but USA courts did not allow this.

No testing done for transmission and not effective in stopping transmission or sickness.

EXEMPTIONS GIVEN TO GROUPS TO AVOID RISK OF VACCINE SIDE EFFECTS

Politicians, Judges, Vaccine company employees, Health departments, Federal Public Servants

Vaccine company CEOs admit to refusing to take their own company's vaccine

FAKING OF JABS IN MEDIA

Politicians, personalities paid to fake getting the injection on TV and on social media.

Injections given were saline, dummy needles, caps left on whilst nurses pretended to inject. There are many examples
on social media.

NURSES protecting patients by pretending to give vaccines

Some nurses faked giving injections and paperwork to protect patients, friends and family from the deadly side
effects of the vaccine.

WA Police dropped charges against nurse^^^^^^^l inWestern Australia after not injecting MRNA vaccine
into patients' body to protect patients. Vaccine was injected into the sink.

           German nurse in Friesland gave 8,600 saline injections instead of COVID vaccine to protect patients from
vaccine injury side effects.

TGA

Approved foreign experimental MRNA vaccines.

Delayed                        Australian company Vaxine from COVAX - 19 vaccine approval by using expensive
roadblocks although was used overseas as an effective traditional vaccine.

AHPRA

Led by PM's brother. Stated AHPRA were not subject to government controls.

Threatened Doctors licences if they did not comply with Government vaccine programs.

Interfered with Doctor Patient relationship. Denied effective treatments such as monoclonal antibodies,
hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, vitamin D.

Enforced treatments that did not work such as Remdesivir and ventilators

PCR testing

                                     stated on video that PCR does not work for diagnosing disease as it may detect 1
cell which is in a person but will not make the person sick.

10 cm swab inserted via nose to damage blood brain barrier to allow spike protein to entry to the brain to cause
damage. If COVID was extremely contagious then cells would be everywhere and be detectable by a cheek swab.

OUTCOMES

Out of date vaccines thrown out; Reported as approximately 10 million

Money wasted from out-of-date vaccines: approximately $500,000,000
Whilst the Bioweapon COVID19 killed 20 million this number will be mired in controversy as medical staff labelled
natural and accidental deaths were labelled as COVID deaths to increase COVID numbers.

COVID Vaccine deaths were 26 million and the makers were disappointed as there was a low take-up of the vaccine
from Africa, India and


Sweden: No experimental vaccine mandates, a control group for the world experiment

Australia 1 Trillion dollar debt from lockdowns

State government Billion dollar debts from lockdowns

Vaccine injured deaths

ACTION TO BE TAKEN

National Corruption Investigation into COVID vaccine payments and percentage of Saline vaccine vials produced

National Corruption Investigation into Department of Health & Aged Care Services for denial of effective treatments

Investigation into TGA

Investigation into AHPRA

Investigate Australia number of Excess deaths every year

Compare Australia to Sweden's response economically and medically

Investigate Qudos Bank Stadium teenage mass vaccination




A WORKERS STORY AGAINST VACCINE MANDATES

Encountered                who was sitting waiting for a bus to take him to the airport to fly back home as he
suffered heart injury from 2 Pvizer vaccines. I talked to him for 30 minutes and was shocked by his story.

He was a fit 10km runner and surfer in his 30's with 2 young kids who had suffered 2 heart attacks from the vaccine
and could not walk for 50 metres without running out of breath. Because he was a contractor no one at work cared
about this Australian hard working man. He advised me to be wary of the second vaccine.

When he went home the Doctors ignored him and would not treat him professionally. He had to go to naturopaths
to help him get better because GP doctors would not acknowledge his injuries would not help him.

Other workers hod clotting in the broin ond loss of heoring for o number ofdoys which could hove been coreer
ending.

After hgving COVID symptoms in April 20201 recovered in 3 days gnd developed g natural immunity. This was
ignored as Government did not want to acknowledge known medical knowledge and the health department
wanted to inject experimental vaccines with risks of permanent injury.

Back at war1'                                    irrrr mircing and bullying me to get the second vaccine to be
fully vaccinated which was of great concern to me                      -rrinif: injirric-

After my injury and back from I went to a Doctor who advised me that the vaccine was experimental and there was
great risk to take it as the Doctor did not was in the vial as there was no information sheet supplied with the
vaccine. I asked for a medical exemption and he stated he was not allowed to give a medical exemption otherwise
he would lose his medical licence.
