     Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry
                       Submission



I am representing myself as an individual of Australia.

Firstly my opinion is that this inquiry is just the Commonwealth Governments attempt at making it
look like they acted and tried to "reflect and learn”. If the Commonwealth Government truly
wanted to reflect and learn, then they would have spent large sums of money (like they did for
their cure during the pandemic) to inform the public of their ability to make a submission,
furthermore, they would have also allowed more than a week for submissions. I really hope that
my cynicism is proven wrong.

The Commonwealth Government failed to serve and protect its people and their rights which led
to the harm and suffering of its people creating a loss of faith in the countries leadership.

Due to the inaction of the Commonwealth Government to introduce anti-discrimination legislation
such as these 2 bills:
-COVID-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and
-The Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023” (1)
The rights of individuals within Australia were squashed by States and Territories in ways similar to
countries where rights do not exist. By failing to introduce the above legislation, the
Commonwealth Government allowed States and Territories to coerce individuals into medical
procedures (vaccination) or lose their livelihood and access to their communities.

The magnitude of the Commonwealth Governments failing is further amplified as individuals of the
states and territories were coerced into being injected with a provisionally registered medical
product lacking in any sort of long term safety profile. Provisionally registered products rely on
adverse event reporting to build up the safety profile on products, however by censoring and
bullying people from criticising the product you break the system, harm, maim and kill people.
Transparent adverse event reporting systems and criticism should be promoted and made
available to the population so people can make informed choices to protect themselves.

I thought living in a modern Western country would have meant that we would have held tightly to
lessons from the past, like the Nuremberg Code, to prevent past failings from recurring; especially
around voluntary medical consent around experimentation.

Furthermore, to date the Commonwealth Government spent a wasteful $18 billion (3), of which
approximately $15 billion of taxpayers money on the C19 vaccines. As of July 18 2022,
approximately 255 million doses had been purchased, this was enough for every Australian to be
jabbed 10 times each, while the maximum authorised dosage was 5, this translates to 50% of the
money spent just wasted. Meanwhile there are Australians like(2) who were injured
by the vaccine and now suffer from life changing injuries who are struggling to get any sort of fair
compensation.

The Commonwealth Government has much to answer for.

Sources:
1. httDs://www.aDh.gov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/Senate/
   Education and EmDloyment/VaccineDiscrimination
2. httDs://umbrellanews.com.au/featured/2023/06/government-stalls-on-comDO-for-covid-
   vaccine-injuries/
3. httDs://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout/vaccine-agreements
