Covid inquiry
In the interest of Australia’s preparedness to deal with future pandemics, I would
suggest that staying away from advice given by companies and individuals who have
vested interest in the pandemic, such as vaccine manufacturers.
As well as organisations, such as the TGA, who receive the bulk of their funding from
companies, that profit from vaccines and medications manufactured for this purpose.

The advice these organisations give is going to be skewed in the direction of the
donor funding they receive. Therefore, biased and unreliable, as has been
demonstrated throughout the pandemic. With comments, such as the vaccines will
save your family, your grandparents and your children. When clearly the evidence
we now have shows that there is no prevention of transmission from these vaccines.

The trampling of human rights cannot be condoned in any way. Quarantine is for the
sick, not the healthy.

The government response to this pandemic has been appalling. The so-called
experts that it has relied on, have all been funded by the companies that prosper
from a pandemic.

The enquiry must examine the responses from government departments, both
federally and state and hold to account those who have abused their office. No
matter the rank of their office , premiers or heads of departments. All must be
investigated.

The lies that have been told, the Sackings of people from their jobs. The Censorship
of people for their truthful and accurate comments on social media. The invasion of
peoples privacy both medically and personal. The injuries and deaths from these
vaccines must be fully investigated.
The massive rise in all cause mortality, must be investigated as there is an
appearance of a direct cause from the vaccines.

A toothless enquiry is of little value to to the millions of Australian people that have
been affected by this pandemic. This would be little more than a waste of taxpayers
funds. The only effective way forward, is a Royal Commission into the debacle, that
is called a pandemic response. Anything less is unacceptable.
