                                   Covid Submission
   -    responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government and the
        role of state and territory governments
As a single mother raising three children I went back to study once^^^^^^H started
school. Completing two years at TAPE part time doing a Tertiary Preparation Certificate
which then enabled me to complete a bachelor's degree in mathematics at university. Being
conscious of preserving my brain I also completed some medical science subjects. Once I
graduated, I ran my own business for a year, completed a Certificate 4 in Training and
Assessment then returned to university to complete a Graduate Diploma in Secondary
Education. By this time, I had accumulated^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^l

By this stage of my life
               I then moved 8 hours away from my family and friends to gain a permanent
teaching position with the NSW Education Department. After one year I relocated to another
permanent teaching position closer to my family and friend but still 4 hours away. It was not
easy to move so far away and did negatively impact^^^^^^|and myself. However, at the
time I did think I was doing the right thing by building my career with the NSW Education
Department. I was a very conscientious teacher throughout my employment by the NSW
Education Department, often performing tasks that were above requirements and even
teaching an above load class of extension mathematics in my own time


As a teacher being exposed to so many different students you develop a strong immune
system. One of the skills I have paid a fortune in HECS fees to learn is the skill to research.
Being critically aware of preserving my ageing brain to be able to stay sharp with
mathematical skill particularly when teaching the higher levels of mathematics, I am very
aware and careful about what I put into my body. A little research into the pharmaceutical
companies pushing the injections and the damage they have caused, the millions in
compensation they have been liable for, hearing the Australian Health Minister proclaim that
the jabs were the largest medical experiment in history, reading the statistics for the actual
danger                and myself, I decided that I would not need this experimental
injection. I did approach^^^^^|for a medical exemption, he told me there were no
exemptions given.




                                                                                                  1
After an incredibly busy and stressful term of compiling and producing teaching material,
teaching students online and marking work, from the 8/11/211 was threated with police
action if I attempted to go to work. I was investigated and found guilty of misconduct for
refusing to take part in a medical experiment.

"Allegations of Misconduct: It is alleged you engaged in misconduct by:

1. Failing to comply with the directions issued
22 October 2021 and 1 November 2021, to show your principal a copy of your vaccination
evidence by 8 November 2021.

2. Failing to meet the conditions of your employment as set out in the determination made
                                                                 on 18 October 2021, that an
employee must provide either (a) vaccination evidence or (b) a medical contraindication
certificate".

On the 11/1/23 I was fired.

"Dear Ms M----- , I refer to my findings and proposed disciplinary action following the
investigation into your conduct. I have read and considered your submission.

Findings I confirm my findings as follows:

Allegations 1 and 2 are sustained.

Allegations 1 and 2 amount to misconduct.

Disciplinary Action to be taken: I have now considered all the information and have decided
to take disciplinary action. I dismiss you from your employment with the Department of
Education effective from the date of receipt of this letter. "

Before Convid Australia already had a shortage of teachers and many public schools were
underfunded as was evident in the state of many dilapidated school buildings, our public
health system was already understaffed and underfunded. Many un-jabbed teachers and
medical staff who worked through the start of the "pandemic", like me, were quality staff,
not easily replaceable.

On the 22.7.21 during a press conference the Australian Prime Minister clearly stated that
"people make decisions about their own health and their own bodies, that's why we don't
have mandatory vaccination in relation to the general population".

The States then go against this and once the jabs became mandated, I was no longer allowed
to work. By this time, it was evident that alternative therapies were successfully being used
to treat any sick people and many people had suffered severe side effects, including death
from the jab. The jab as promoted to be 'safe and effective' by Australian politicians and the
media, was a complete fabrication of the truth. What did the stupid people who made the
dangerous decision to mandate the jabs expect would happen?

I have received no apology nor compensation from the NSW Department of Education for
my unfair dismissal.


                                                                                                 2
One question I would like to see answered by this 'inquiry' is: If it was impossible for the
ordinary Australian to get an exemption from taking these poisonous shots, why were so
many politicians and legal professionals given exemptions? And who made the decision that
they could be exempt?



RECOMMENDATIONS:

I would like to see the people responsible for wasting Australian taxpayers' money on these
dangerous shots and the prolific propaganda fear campaign waged against the Australian
people publicly identified and prosecuted for treason. It shouldn't be too hard to follow the
money trail to identify who was funded to implement this disastrous campaign. I would like
their assets seized and used to fund research into what was in the jabs and helping those
who have adverse reactions and everyone who took the jabs a way to detox.

I would also like to see AHPRA and those individuals within AHPRA held accountable for their
role in gaging health professionals. I would like to see medical doctors given back their ability
to truthfully give informed consent to their patients and to be able to treat patients as
individuals.

I would like to see a clear and accountable separation between law and politics established
so the legal system can oversee the political system and protect the Australian people
against corporate greed.

I would like to see the Australia Parliament recognize, protect, and decree the importance of
our God given human rights.




                                                                                                3
