Thank you for the opportunity to provide input to the inquiry.
This input has been developed from our personal experience during Covid, and the experience of
our friends and relatives.
Our most serious concerns are as follows:
1. The fanatical pursuit of a vaccine solution to Covid, with no time, money or effort spent on
prevention which is always a better approach. Preventative drugs (ie Ivermectin and
Hydroxychloroquine) which were known to kill the virus were initially deliberately excluded, and
later completely banned by the TGA, even though they had proven to be most effective in other
parts of the world. Interestingly, Ivermectin was very quietly unbanned and is now available again.
2. Deliberately misleading the public in terms of vaccine safety and efficacy, by suppressing
information and pursuing a strategy of ever increasing booster shots, when one dose became two
doses, which became three doses, then four doses, in order to provide immunity from the virus,
which has never been achieved. The initial hype very quickly degenerated as the truth about the lack
of effectiveness of the vaccines and the side effects became evident as time went by.
3. The demonisation of highly qualified scientists and medical practitioners, and then attacks on
their integrity and employment security (threatening to deregister doctors who did not tow the party
line), in an effort to silence them.
4. The enormous amounts of money which were wasted in purchasing vaccines, eg around 18
billion dollars spent on vaccines and treatments, with around 255 million doses purchased, which
was enough for 10 doses for every Australian. (Maximum authorised doses is 5 per person). In
addition a large number of doses were thrown out as they had passed their use by date.
5. The concerted efforts on behalf of regulatory authorities to cast people who did not want to be
vaccinated as somehow responsible for the spread of the virus. This was particularly cynical as
vaccinated people were catching the virus, proving that it was the failure of the vaccines to prevent
the virus, rather than it being spread by unvaccinated people.
6. Disturbing instances of data manipulation or suppression in terms of relating to child deaths and
vaccine injuries, with the view to manipulating public opinion to ensure the vaccine program did
not lose credibility. In addition, implementing a totally inadequate compensation program designed
to exclude many legitimate applicants from receiving any assistance.
7. Publicly ridiculing, vilifying and threatening those who did not wish to be vaccinated, which had
a terrible impact on peoples’ relationships in families, friendships, the workplace, and in the
community generally.
8. Totally misleading information provided on the testing regimes for the vaccines, where trials
were rushed and did not include pregnant women, children, or people with comorbidities. And yet
all these groups were told that it was safe to take the vaccines, which is totally untrue.
9. People being asked to sign a form that said that they were not coerced into taking the vaccine, but
if they didn’t, their employment was terminated and medical treatment was denied. It’s hard to
imagine a more cynical and unethical approach to vaccination.
