Office of the Directorate                                               6th of September 2021




Attention:

Dear^^l

I am sending you this email to voice my concern about the Mandatory Covid -19 vaccination
programme.

At the outset, I am proud to have been working with the                    for over eight
years and I take my job very seriously. During this time, I have enjoyed my role as an
                            , as well as                   and                       within the


My duties extend to closely working with and supporting the professional
                   and the                      I also support students who have challenges
with their learning and find it incredibly rewarding to see these students responded in a
positive way to the support that I give them.

M'                attended bothl           schools in the                              and


Over the last couple of weeks there have been several emails coming from both^^Hand^J
              exploring the possibility of a COVID Vaccine rollout to all staff in schools. I note
that the two separate emails dated Fri, T1 Aug 2021 were sent by
but without any one person forme to send a reply to. I have also received emails from
^^■the personal assistant to our Principle,                 and I can only assume that
these emails were sent at his directive.      would you be good enough to let me know if it
is you I should make my point of contact, or who to direct my correspondence too,
particularly as more information becomes available, thank you.

The potential that I may be required to have the vaccine, in order to maintain my current
position, has caused me great anxiety and stress.

Having said that, with respect to the correspondence regarding the encouragement to have
the COVID vaccine, I would be most grateful if you would provide the following information
in accordance with the statutory requirements:


     •   Please provide me with the approved legal status of the required vaccine that I am to
         be injected with.
     •       Please advise if the vaccine is experimental.
     •   Please provide details and assurances that the required vaccine has been fully,
         independently, and rigorously tested against control groups.
     •       Please advise the subsequent outcomes of those tests.
       •     Please provide a full list of the contents of the required vaccine that I am to receive,
             and if anything in the vaccine is toxic to the body.
       •     Please advise of all the adverse reactions or side effects associated with the vaccine
             since its introduction, and the likely risk of injury or fatality from those side effects.
       •     Please confirm that the vaccine that you are advocating is not experimental mRNA
             gene altering therapy.
       •     Please confirm that I will not be under any duress from you as my employers, in
             compliance with the Nuremberg Code.
       •     Please advise me of the likely risk of a fatality should I be unfortunate enough to
             contract COVID-19, and the likelihood of my recovery.
Once I have received the above information in full, and I am satisfied that there is no threat
to my health, I will be happy to consider the acceptance of your offer to receive the
treatment, but with certain conditions - namely that:

       •          You confirm that I will suffer no harm.

       •      Following acceptance of your request, the offer must be signed by a fully qualified
             doctor who will in turn take full legal and financial responsibility for any injury that
             occurs to me, and/or from any interactions from authorised personnel regarding
             these procedures, or alternatively, that you as my employer take full legal and
             financial responsibility for such injury.

If I should have to decline the offer of the vaccine:

  I.          Please confirm that this decision will not compromise my employment position and
             that I will not suffer any prejudice and/or discrimination as a result.

       ii.   I am prepared to wear appropriate PPE if required to continue in my current position
             and if this is not possible, I would be prepared to move to another position of
             employment within the company or I would also be prepared to provide virtual
             support on the basis that my current hours are maintained.

       iii. I am also prepared to pay for an antibody test to confirm whether I have previously
            contracted Covid-19, on the assumption that if I have, that I will not be required to
            undertake the vaccine.

       iv.       I request that my unalienable rights are preserved.

Thank you in anticipation of your response as soon as possible.

Yours faithfully,
