To the Covid-19 Response Enquiry,

I would ask that you enquire into that which matters most of all. What is the evidence that there was
a deadly pathogen that swept the world in 2019/2020? This is a virus that stopped at borders as if it
needed a visa.




                                                                                 I have attached the
pdf this comes from and links to studies are provided.

If there was no deadly virus then there was no justification for any of the covid measures. The usual
ways of managing this were thrown out and instead we had measures that we knew would damage
the economy and have a negative impact on societal health outcomes. And that is exactly what has
happened with an excess death rate in Australia at present that is sitting at about 15%. Mental health
in this country is in a shocking state and the health system is failing to manage the demand.

The protocols in nursing homes resulted in unnecessary deaths that could have been prevented. To
deny antibiotics to elderly people with bacterial pneumonia because they tested positive to covid
was tantamount to a death sentence.

When the federal government allowed employers to mandate vaccines they broke the Nuremburg
Code which states that it is a basic human right to decide what goes into our own bodies, bodily
autonomy. Thus they did not act to curb actions that have caused great harm to thousands of the
vaccine injured and those who lost their job rather than take an experimental gene therapy
treatment. Nor has there been any informed consent in the deployment of these shots for anyone
that has received them.

In short our government needs to be made accountable for decisions that have impacted the
economy and the health of our nation. The senate refused to support an investigation into excess
deaths so it is clear they do not care about the people who they are meant to serve. This enquiry
should have been a Royal Commission with the power to assess the decisions made by the state
governments. Instead we have this enquiry and I hope that you do actually read the submissions and
the data that is being provided to you.
