Submission to the Call for submissions and evidence to the C0VID-19 Response Inquiry
From:|                                                                                                       |To: The COVID-19 Response
Inquiry Panel. Uploaded https://www.pmc.gov.aU/covid-19-response-inquiry/consultation#how-to-prepare-a-submission 15/12/2023 time 2pm.

I believe this COVID Response Inquiry is a good beginning to investigating the legal and ethical conduct of the Commonwealth
Government during the COVID-19 pandemic and will provide the Commonwealth Government (CG) will much useful feedback on
how to better manage any health pandemic in the future. It must however be an objective and impartial inquiry. Moving forward, all
CG decisions made regarding public health should be legal, non-discriminatory, based on unbiased science, not only benefit
pharmaceutical companies and profit-making corporations, be truthful and not use fear of disease, "killing granny", exclusion from
employment or social events as a compliance and propogandist tool. Instead, the Commonwealth Government should be
implementing positive health, economic and social outcomes for the Australian people and those visiting Australia, which respect
individual human rights and freedoms and the complexity of social dynamics. Almost every other country in the world did a much
better and fairer job of managing the COVID-19 pandemic than Australia did. I do however think just having a Commonwealth
Government's COVID-19 Response Inquiry is inadequate. What is needed is a much more comprehensive inquiry that encompasses
all aspects of the government's response, including the role played and decisions made by the State and Territory Governments (in
partnership with the Australian Government). Exclusion of unilateral State and Territory Government decisions is a significant
omission for this Inquiry, as these decisions were pivotal to the nation's pandemic response request. Transparency, accountability
and the safeguarding of the values Australian's hold true is an essential roles for all governments. The Australian people require
governments to act in the public good and spend the taxes Australians pay in goodwill in a way that effectively cares for and supports
all Australians. This requirement was definitely not achieved by the Commonwealth Government during the COVID-19 pandemic. I
therefore, request that a Royal Commission into all governments in Australia' handling of the COVID-19 pandemic is a
recommendation of this inquiry. A Royal Commission will help alleviate the current levels of mistrust of Australian government and
their appointed officials, due to decision making during the COVID-19 pandemic as all levels of Government failed to meet people's
needs, told many untruths and undertaking fearmongering as their key tool, introduced biases and declined Australia people of their
right of providing their informed consent to COVD-19 vaccines and of many of their other constitutional freedoms and liberties.
Please visit https:/7amps.redunion.com.au for further information.
Comments re: specific area of review Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) & advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19. Governance by
the Commonwealth Government during the COVID-19 pandemic was lacking in integrity, constituted a violation of human rights, an
individuals' democratic rights to speech and basic liberty, prevented freedom of speech, facilitated and failed to meet the
Commonwealth Government's obligation to prevent discrimination, involved censorship and lacked a scientific consensus being
reached by honest debate in order to inform political decisions. Coercion, fear, censorship and propaganda techniques were evident
tools used by the Commonwealth Government during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Commonwealth Government failed to respond
to the many public requests for risk analysis data and/or reports used by the Commonwealth Government to make decisions on
behalf of the populace it serves. Over the course of the pandemic, many concerned citizens, public health organisation officials,
doctors, nurses and other health professionals from Australia and around the world contacted the Commonwealth Government
(including the Commonwealth Government's Police and Health Ministers regarding their concerns about the safety and effectiveness
of COVID-19 vaccines, masks, PCR tests, border closures, inadequate quarantine facilities and policies but the Commonwealth
Government did not listen to their concerns, provide the information they were seeking or adequately answering their questions,
and in some cases did not even respond. Every day that the COVID-19 pandemic continued (and still today), more and more people
suffered from COVID-19 vaccine injuries including death and injury, and from other non-effective and detrimental medical health
interventions promoted by the Commonwealth Government. More and more vaccinated and non-vaccinated people were, and still
are, facing increasing financial hardship, social impacts and other significant stresses. Facts and evidence were hidden, suppressed,
shouted down by politicians and the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other public health organisations including doctors, and
others, and were never reported on by our mainstream media. The Commonwealth Government failed adequately assist these
people and to ensure that State and Territory Governments operated legally, equitably and ethically when it came to meeting
Australian Government vaccination policies, and other policies that were unnecessary and significantly negatively impacted on
Australian people including inability to go to the hospital for scheduled procedures, funerals, births and weddings, visiting loved ones
in hospitals or nursing homes. Many Australian people were scared and very vulnerable and in need of support and physical contact
and many people I know felt isolated, trapped, sad and even depressed and suicidal. Vaccine mandates were short-sighted,
unethical, unfair, unjust, unequitable, discriminatory and in breach of various laws and agreements. At the time the Commonwealth
Government's COVID-19 vaccination mandates for health professionals were introduced and implemented, COVID-19 vaccines were
still in phase three trials and were not yet fully approved. mRNA medical technology has never been used in a vaccine, nor on a
healthy population. The Commonwealth Government did not respect its populations' sovereign and human rights associated with
medical interventions and bodily autotomy i.e. "my body; my choice" and imposed punitive rules, penalties and regulations against
individuals choosing not to have Covid-19 vaccinations. Nor did they caution the State and Territory Governments of these risks and
human rights obligations. Legally, individuals have the right to informed consent, medical privacy and personal health choices. The
fundamental importance of protecting these inalienable rights to boldly autonomy and full medical consent is affirmed by
international and national courts.
The Commonwealth Government's (and all State and Territory Governments) COVID-19 vaccination mandates were in breach of:
The Siracusa Principles on the Limitation and Derogation of Provisions in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
produced by the United Nation's Economic and Social Council explicitly state that: "No State party shall, even in time of emergency
threatening the life of the nation, derogate from the Covenant's guarantees of the right to life; freedom from torture, cruel, inhuman
or degrading treatment or punishment, and from medical or scientific experimentation without free consent; freedom from slavery
or involuntary servitude .... The right to recognition as a person before the law, and freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
These rights are non derogable under any conditions even for the asserted purpose of preservation the life of the nation." The
United Nations Human Rights Committee has explicitly emphasised that the restrictions that the Covenant places on Courts such as
Australia's "underlines the great importance of nonderogable rights".
Article 6 of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights (2005): "Any preventative, diagnostic and therapeutic medical
intervention is only to be carried out with the proper, free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate
information".
The Right to Work: Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Article 6 of the International Covenant on Social and Cultural Rights (Article 7 of the same covenant ensures that certain rights to
work and a fair wage cannot be suspended).
The Australian Human Rights Commission (At the time employees signed, there was never consent on the employees' part to be
mandated or to have any form of injection or vaccine at any time after entering into their employment contract. It has been without
the consent of the employee to which these new provisions and terms of contract were introduced).
The Australian Law Reform Commission; 'Informed consent' refers to consent to medical treatment and the requirement to warn of
material risk prior to treatment. As part of their duty of care, health professionals must provide such information as is necessary for
the patient to give consent to treatment, including information on all material risks of the proposed treatment. Failure to do so may
lead to civil liability for an adverse outcome, even if the treatment itself was not negligent."
The Biosecurity Act 2015 (Commonwealth).The requirement by the Commonwealth Government's COVID-19 vaccination
employment mandates for health care workers contravened their own Australian Government's Australian Immunisation
Handbook (AIH), as consent for any vaccination needs to be given voluntarily and there must not be any undue pressure, coercion or
manipulation. Given the AIH states consent can only be considered valid if it is given after the potential risks and benefits of the
relevant vaccine, the risks of not having it, and any alternative options have been explained to the person, the WA State
Governments' COVID-19 mandates again contravened laws, human rights, ethics and common sense as the lack of safety and
efficacy data and information of the risks and benefits for each of the COVID-19 vaccinations (drug) available to the WA public could
be communicated by doctors, other medical professionals including pharmacists at the time that they were to be administered.
Moreover, in its Australian Covid-19 Vaccination Policy, the Commonwealth Government claimed it was committed to successful
immunisation of Australians with a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine. As per above and below, all COVID-19 vaccines and msks
proved to be neither safe nor effective (per above and https://www.lifesitenews.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/VARIOUS-FACE-
MASK-STUDIES-PROVE-THEIR-INEFFECTIVENESS-PDF.pdf
The Commonwealth Government failed regulating COVID-19 vaccines and its associated national communications and information
effort, as communications and information was not unbiased and failed to provide details about what products and other
components of the COVID-19 vaccinations, the potential significant health risks involved with each of these products. There was
abundant evidence to show that early treatment and of COVID-19 saved lives in the absence of vaccination and that natural
immunity was considered best practice by many immunologists, health professionals and the community at large (see Sweden).
The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) failed to ensure the safety of COVID-19 vaccinations, choose to discount or ignore, data
and information from vaccine clinical trials, including those undertaken by COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers very early on, which
proved COVID-19 vaccinations were not safe or effective, threatened Australian's doctors with de-registration if they did not stick to
the safe and effect they and enacted the de-registration process, ignored and discounted pleas by the Australian community from
people whose family members and friends had died or been injured from COVID-19 vaccines and requests to investigate the safety
and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines by credible and highly respected health professionals and health authorities from with Australian
and internationally and by the very small number of Commonwealth Government politicians who asked questions to challenge the
information being provide by the Commonwealth Government. Similarly, the Commonwealth Government failed to review all the
up-to-date health advice it received that did not support the Commonwealth Government narrative about COVID-19 vaccinations
being safe and effective. These decisions and actions by the Commonwealth Government and the TGA, combined with inaction by
the Commonwealth Government when State Governments illegally mandated COVID-19 vaccinations for many occupations means
the Commonwealth Government is also culpable of using coercion as a tool, breaking the Nuremburg Code and other ethical based
policies (see list above) and for the death, injury trauma and financial hardship many Australians have suffered as a result of the
Commonwealth Government's mis-management of COVID-19 pandemic. The Commonwealth Government's management of the
Covid -19 pandemic clearly demonstrates the real need for strategic unbiased best practice management public health policy,
including addressing the failings regarding transparency and accountability that meets their duty of care obligations. This is in stark
contrast to the Florida Health Department who on the 15 of February 2023 issued a Health Alert on mRNA COVID-19 Vaccine Safety
www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2023/02/20230215-updated-health-alert.pr.html ).
Implications for myself and many other Australians. Most people I know whose jobs were mandated have on many occasions stated
they did not want to have a COVID-19 vaccination(s) at all (s) but felt they had no choice as they had mortgages and bills to pay and
children and other loved ones to feed/look after.                  lost his job due to his not wanting to have a COVID-19 vaccination,
even when he requested information from his employer on more than one occasion what "ingredients" the COVID-19 vaccinations
comprised (e.g. the Material Safety Data Sheet), the possible side effects, and risks of COVID-19 vaccinations and confirmation on
who would be liable for any adverse reactions he could potentially experience given he was being coerced to take a COVID-19
vaccination to keep his job. His employment termination resulted in our family suffering undue financial hardship and the loss of his
promising career and long service, sick leave and other accumulated benefits as well as being terminated by a volunteer^^^^^^l
Whilst I was able to retain my employment on the basis that I work from home do not return to the office for approximately a period
of 6 months. Isolation, exclusion, a lack of professional development opportunities and disdain by some staff members for the choice
I had made was my experience. The Therapeutic Goods Administration's (TGA) own data confirmed that these vaccines were
untested, did not prevent COVID, did not get rid of Covid symptoms, and did not stop contractability. The TGA had at the time of the
WA State Government's Covid 19 vaccination mandates recorded hundreds of adverse health reactions to the same vaccines,
including deaths. COVID-19 vaccines are experimental by definition, as data as to the effects of the vaccines are still being collected
in ongoing clinical trials. In fact, Reports such as the "Operation COVID Shield - A Public Interest Report" as well as "The Vaccine
Death Report" lay out the statistics, data and concerns in relation to the adverse health effects of this experimental vaccine.
Obviously, no long-term safety data exists for Covid-19 vaccines. Alternative measures such as Vitamin C, zinc and other natural
treatments were vilified by the Commonwealth Government and not supported as alternative preventive or useful therapeutic
interventions, including healthy lifestyle and diet. In particular, the Commonwealth Government's banning of doctors to prescribe
Ivermectin until recently, hydroxychloroquine and other drugs that had proven to be safe and effective in treating and preventing
COVID-19 in patients elsewhere in the world were not made available to residents/visitors and where in fact "demonised".
Remdesivir was promoted as being a safe and effective Covid-19 treatment even though Remdesivir also quickly proved to be very
unsafe (resulting in many avoidable deaths) and ineffective. Anyone not wanting to have a Covid-19 vaccination and anyone
supporting that alienable right was deemed an anti-vaxxer and anyone who questioned the Commonwealth and State/Territory
Government's illogical and nonsensical Covid-19 management policies, plans and implementation of were labelled a conspiracy
theorist to sway public opinion, promote discrimination, alienation and encourage vilification of those who chose not to have a
COVID-19 vaccination, which was within their legal and human rights. My Recommendations are as follows:


1.  Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments of Australia never again enforce any vaccinations to be mandatory as this is
    unlawful under the Australian Immunisation Register Act and Australia's international Human Rights obligations.
2. Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments never again encourage via coercion or otherwise vaccinations that have been
    made available for use unless they have undergone sufficient and rigorous scientific trials that are required. And ensure there is
    no longer censorship of information relating to COVID-19 of Medical Professionals through AHPRA and by mainstream media.
3. The Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments ensures that all its residents and visitors who seek vaccines in the future
    are fully made aware of the potential risks of any vaccine via personal forms of communications that clearly outline these risks.
4. Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments provide financial compensation and other forms of support to the people of
    WA (or their families in the case of death) where there has been Covid 19 vaccine adverse reactions in particular, and for all
    other harms done to individuals as a result of management decisions made by governments during the Covid-19 pandemic.
5. Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments, including Fair Work Australia, ensure they are transparent and exercise a
    duty of care to the health and well-being of the community and that they Commonwealth Government hear and respond to all
    members of the community, including residents, employers and employees who have concerns about any public health matter,
    instruction or recommendation in a competent, timely and professional manner (particularly in regard to the question of
    whether government enforced Covid-19 vaccine mandates were lawful and contradictory to the occupational health and safety
    responsibility employers have to their staff). Government staff/reps must not be complicit to further crimes against humanity.
6. Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments ensure a thorough risk benefit analysis is independently undertaken by the
    relevant medicines regulator, the TGA, prior to Provisionally Approving genetically engineered drugs for population-wide
    administration, especially children and teenagers and that decisions about taking vaccinations and all medical drugs are made
    by parents for all children 16 years and younger.
7. The Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments work in partnership with the other States and the Australian Government
    to ensure that like some other countries in the world Australia does not become a signatory to the World Health Organisation
    International Health Regulations (IHR) and exits the World Health Organisation (WHO) so it can act automatously without being
    subjected to unscrupulous and dangerous public health obligations and have the necessary independence to make strategic and
    beneficial public health decisions for Australia's current and future population, for reasons of human rights and sovereignty.
8. The Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments strives to re-build trust by the Australian community trust in the WA
    Government, particularly premiers, health ministers, chief health officers, police commissioners and their staff, and those in the
    medical profession and media and many other organisations who are complicit and have proven unwilling to putting the health
    and well-being of the people they have been elected to serve first and governments never again allow Public Health States of
    Emergency to be implemented on a rolling basis or allow decisions regarding these not be discussed with Emergency Ministers.
9. Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments review the appropriateness of powers granted to Commissioners of Police
    and their Officers under any Emergency Management COVID-19 Provisions legislation.
10. The Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments assess and reports to the public the details of all autopsies performed in
    Australia where cause of death has been Covid-19 vaccinations and/or "died of covid" and immediately investigate the dramatic
    increase in mortality since COVID-19 vaccinations were introduced, in Australia (recently voted down in the senate.... HOW?).
