                                          Submission re:
                      Call for submissions and evidence
                      to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

                                                                                Warwick George Gummerson



                                                                                            Phone:
                                                                       Email:

  I am pleased to make a submission to the enquiry into Australia's response to Covid-19.
  I have been personally impacted, not by the virus but by the manner in which both Federal and NSW
governments responded to the arrival of this virus and its variants.

  There have been two times when I have been infected with Covid-19, both times with very little ill effects.
The first time was just after my 79th birthday and the second time after my 80th birthday.

   I decided that there was not sufficient time for pharmaceutical companies to perform valid research into
any possible long term effects for this new type of vaccine (mRNA) so I declined to allow myself to be injected
with any of the offered Covid-19 vaccines. After all it takes 2 years and longer to test for problems with any
drug. I well remember the disaster that Thalidomide wrought on the population some years ago.
The hasty development of mRNA as an injection into humans seemed to be too risky.

   Airborne respiratory viruses first enter the body through the nose or tear ducts and lodge in the mucous
layer before moving further into the body and no amount of vaccine injected into the arm will prevent the
virus entering at this point. It is for this reason that the vaccines, advertised as "stopping transmission" did not
and could not prevent the spread of Covid-19. The wearing of masks does not prevent the airborne virus from
entering via the eyes and down the tear ducts.

   1) Therefore my first point is that the Government's rules enforcing vaccines and mask wearing were
useless at best. The readily observable fact that vaccinated/boosted people caught and became ill with Covid-
19 proves my point. It is still the case, to this day, that our heavily vaccinated population presents as thousands
of "cases", further shows the folly of this path.


   2)        My second point relates to me personally to the tune of some $30,000.
I was employed as a School Bus Driver by a local Christian School for some 7 years.
   The Public Health Order issued by Brad Hazzard caused the school to demand that all its staff submit to the
Covid-19 vaccine or not be permitted to work. This meant that I was without pay during the entire 12 months
of 2022 and used up all our savings.
   As it happens, I caught Covid-19 just a few days after the dismissal date and suffered only two days in bed
with an elevated temperature, this in spite of my being 79 years of age at that time.

   Dismissal of any person on the grounds of preferring to not be injected is inherently wrong.




                                               Page 1 of 2 pages
   3)         Interference in the doctor/patient relationship by AHPRA.
The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency threatened Australian doctors with disciplinary action if
they do not promote the mRNA vaccines. There was no allowance made for the doctor to point out any
possible side effects of this procedure, the patient was therefore not possible to give true informed consent.

   4)         "Valid informed consent"
Since Brad Hazard's vaccine mandate forced people to be vaccinated on pain for losing their income with
possible loss of mortgage, whether they agreed with the concept or no, then it was impossible to give valid
informed consent.

    5)         Vaccine injuries.
I personally know of several otherwise healthy people who have been injured by these mRNA vaccines.
I refer you to the Government Bureau of Statistics which documents this exceptional rise in deaths above the
National average, starting the year after the appearance Covid-19 here in Australia but coinciding with the roll
out of mRNA vaccines


   6)      Indemnity for vaccine manufacturers
Vaccine manufacturers should rightly be held responsible for their product not living up to the advertised
outcomes.

   I trust that this submission assists in your conclusions.

  Yours sincerely,




   Warwick Gummerson
   12th December 2023




                                                Page 2 of 2 pages
