Dear Senators and Federal MPs,

With regard to the CO VID inquiry, what I would like to know from or
for all politicians, directly or indirectly involved, to publicly divulge on
all types of media Australia-wide, to all the people of Australia, are:

1. The unredacted contracts with Pfizer, Oxford (Astrazeneca), and
Johnson and Johnson.

2. Who approved the vaccine order quantities per supplier or
pharmaceutical company, the production dates per batch of each brand
of vaccine, and the expiry dates per batch of each type of vaccines.

3. Who signed the aforementioned purchase orders / contracts, date, and
all the other relevant contracts and documents attached to it. Relevant to
this, publish the bank statements of the people who have approved the
purchase orders of all the vaccine brands and publish all the gifts (cash
and/or in kind) received by these people from pharmaceutical companies
between the years 2019 to 2021.

4. Publish all necessary documents invong                   including all
her correspondence with^officials, and
             officials between 2019 to 2021, with regard to the
manufacturing or planning of the pandemic and the orders placed with
       and         e.g. Event 201 held in December 2019.

5. Publish all the bank statements of                 between 2019 to 2021
and all the gifts, cash or in kind, that she has received.

6. The transcript of the meeting between               and Prime Minister
Albanese in January 2023
7. The disposal of unused and damaged vaccines per brand of vaccine,
including dates, quantities, and the total cost of this wastage per state
and territory.

8. A list of all the politicians and police officers, state and federal level,
who have pushed for a treasonous move to restrict the freedom of
speech, restrict the free movement of the people of Australia, and forced
the CO VID MRNA Gene Therapy injections on the people of Australia
in the guise of a pandemic.

All the necessary and relevant documents, in order to conduct this
inquiry must be in the true interest of the people of Australia, and not in
the big government’s view, understanding, and comprehension of public
interest. All politicians and those people serving in the guise of “public
service” or “national service” must understand that they are under the
jurisdiction of the people of Australia.

The truth shall set the people of Australia free.


In honour and truth,
          one of the people of Australia
