SUBMISSION TO AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
Submitter:    Name:
              Address
              Contact: E:

At the time of 2020,1 was                                 working for a major aged-care company^^H, who I
had been employed with for over 10 years. I was forced to resign from this job as I disagreed with the injection
mandates and took a job in^ ^re. 3 months into this role of supporting disabled                         I was
fired as I declined to adhere to the injection mandates, which I strongly opposed. I remained unemployed for
around 6 months as I was unable to work in my profession, was forced to sell an investment property as I was
no longer able to afford to pay the mortgage for it, and then had to start a small business in an industry I had
very little, to no, experience in. My financial loss was extraordinary and this has changed my life permanently.

Firstly, I hope that this current Australian Government will choose to abandon this 'inquiry' and adhere to its
pre-election promises and enact a full, unimpeded and truly independently run Royal Commission. By not
doing so, it makes this Government dishonest and untrustworthy, at a time when trust in Government is
plummeting. In summary, it is my firm belief that the Australian response to this Covid-19 'pandemic' was
authoritarian, punitive, captured, biased, cold-hearted and generally appalling.

Governance:
Throughout the year of 2020, despite ever-increasing punitive Government control and intrusion into my life, I
never truly saw what I would describe as a 'pandemic'. There were no sick or dying in the streets, people were
not dropping dead in their homes, hospitals were not full and over-flowing with sick and dying, no family or
friends I knew were stricken unwell with this disease. In fact, the only way we knew there was a 'pandemic'
was the near-constant reminders from our Governing parties and now-captured media, and their appalling and
un-Australian authoritarian responses to this self-proclaimed emergency, Covid-19 injury and death rates, very
early on and through easily accessible, high-quality literature were no worse than a 'bad' flu year - something
that Australian society has accepted as managed but unavoidable for as long as I have been alive. The PCR test
which was used to supposedly detect this virus had very limited, if any, scientific literature to support its use -
this is because it is not designed to be sensitive to a particular viral strain, only to detect fragmented parts of a
virus, which may be common in many other 'garden variety' viruses which circulate through out society on an
annual basis, and which generally cause very mild sickness. The false-positive rate for this chosen test is also
unacceptably high - suggesting individuals are infected despite having no symptoms whatsoever.
So now we have a disease whose voracity and real-world danger has been vastly over-exaggerated, being
diagnosed with a novel, inappropriate medical test which vastly over-exaggerates infection numbers. Add to
this a captured media which has become heavily biased in its support of the Government, likely and at least in
part to the fact that the Government has become one of their largest advertising clients - there are no longer
any 'mainstream' journalists who are willing to question any Government diktat, or hold to account any person
of leadership who uses their power, position and influence to spout unverified, unvalidated claims about this
virus, its actual dangers, treatments or appropriate responses. State Premiers jumped on this perfect storm of
opportunity to provide themselves with near-round-the-clock media coverage touting everything from daily
infection numbers, deaths (by any cause!), daily changes in authoritarian movement restrictions or removals of
freedoms, or newly-mandated Government 'advice' - all with plenty of fear-mongering and finger-waggling.

Health Response Measures:
I recall in my practicum days during my BSc                  :hat the PRE requirements for a patient diagnosed
as carrying 'Golden Staph' at that stage were: a single room, air lock entry, full gown, gloves, hair covering and
goggles. It was an arduous task to provide these patients with the standard care that they required, and
deserved. It was also obvious that because of these arduous PPE requirements, that they did not receive care
equal to that of all other patients on the ward (who were not 'infectious'). Well, time and research changed the
ideas of this bug and nowadays, in the medical setting the only recommended management for someone with
'MRSA' (the name now given to 'Golden Staph') is hand washing as per standard practice.



                                                                                                                    1
12.12.2023
In the first days of Covid-19 panic, all of our state, federal, local or other medical 'experts' were advising all of
us that putting on paper-based surgical masks was not only not recommended, but strongly discouraged as
these did not, in any way, prevent airborne virus transmission or infection, but their widespread purchase and
use by the public would take away vital stock from those medical professionals who actually required them.
Having worked in the healthcare industry for over a decade, this was not news to me. Surgical masks are for
situations when there is a high risk of bodily fluid transmission - like during surgery or when helping a patient
who has undergone a tracheostomy to cough. Suddenly though, and without any new medical research
suggesting that decades-long protocols are wrong, we were now being forced to wear these at all times when
outside of our homes. All research and evidence available was CLEARLY and OBVIOUSLY completely antithetical
to this notion, and this was no more obvious than to those in the healthcare profession. Who made these
decisions and what evidence did they use to justify these extreme intrusions into our autonomy, making us
uncomfortable, and putting us at increased risk of falls, infection or vaso-vagal attack? Well, that information is
classified and the Government has decided that it is not in the public's interest to disclose. This was completely
and utterly unacceptable. To force children to wear these, in my opinion, was child abuse enacted by the state
and federal Governments.

Closing schools was never justified. All strong, comprehensive medical evidence early on suggested that
children were: at low risk of acquiring this virus, at low risk of spreading this virus, and were at extremely low
risk of becoming significantly unwell with this virus. Viral spread in school settings was found to be extremely
limited. By closing schools, in my opinion, the state and federal Governments enacted their second case of
overt child abuse. The educational opportunities lost to those children who were forced to stay at home are
now clear - irreparable, generational and extreme damage has been done to these children.

The terror and damage enacted by Government was no better highlighted than in the healthcare industry I was
working in when the restrictions began. Aged care was the first industry hit, the industry hit the hardest and
harshest, and one which has undergone a monumental injustice. Masks were first mandated in the aged care
industry, despite no evidence suggesting that these would provide any benefit. I saw the real-world impacts of
this as the aged, frail and disabled residents and clients of my workplaces now struggled to hear the already
difficult to understand care staff - many of whom have thick and exotic accents that our residents are not
accustomed to. They no longer see anyone smiling. Staff are now less available, and less responsive, as
mandatory testing and time off work was enforced for anyone found to have 'tested positive' for Covid. Staff
were generally happy to test positive, as they received full pay for a 2 week holiday at home. Staffing levels
were stretched to a level I had never experienced before - there were daily and significant staff shortages that
were not readily filled by agency staff- as they were also stretched and limited. Family or friends were now
unable to visit their loved ones, so our residents became even more isolated. Phone calls were limited and
video calling simply does not replace the physical presence of a person. If a resident, God forbid, tested
positive to their near-daily covid testing, they were then isolated for 2 weeks with even less social contact with
staff than the already limited norm. Staff morale was destroyed as we all now had to wear ridiculous and
uncomfortable masks which we all knew were of no medical use to us or our residents, workloads increased as
staffing levels were significantly reduced, we became the face of authoritarianism as we were tasked with
advising visitors that they were not allowed within the facilities - and thus we bore the brunt of people's
frustrations and anger. When we attempted to encourage mask wearing of residents, falls increased and
respiratory illnesses ran rife. It was soul-destroying in an already bleak, unglamourous and under-valued
industry. This was, in my opinion, serious elder abuse enacted by the state and federal Governments.

Lockdown:
No Governmental policy throughout 2020-2022 was as damaging as the decision of the Government to ban
people from exiting their homes, on threat of financial and physical damage. The state police, overnight, now
had the green light from their government to stop, question, search, and interrogate any person they saw in
public. They were also, and particularly more worryingly, given the powers to enter any property or vehicle, for
any reason, with as much force as they deemed necessary, and physically assault, restrain, and forcibly inject
any individual with any substance deemed appropriate for their own, or other's 'safety'. We have all seen the
numerous sickening footage from the^^^^^protests in 2020 where police officers, in full black-clad military

                                                                                                                     2
12.12.2023
style garb (which anyl                                               ■■), forcibly tackling unaware citizens and



merely walking to work. We have all seen the footage of police, en masse, patrolling, fining, arresting,
manhandling and threatening everyday Australians who were walking in their local park, or sitting on a park
bench with a coffee. Because of footage like this, the public sentiment in Australia towards our police is now
overwhelmingly negative. People no longer trust the police; people no longer have any respect for the police. I,
for one, have lost all faith and trust in the police, something that will likely remain for the rest of my life. These
are the individuals tasked with protecting us, the people of Australia. Instead, they chose to behave as mindless
and heartless Government enforcement agents of an increasingly tyrannical leadership, enforcing increasingly
illogical rules.

International/National Policies:
Banning Australians from leaving their country was appalling enough, but barring Australians from returning
home to the country of birth, was immoral and illogical. Enforcing state movement restrictions (and also intra-
regional restrictions) was un-constitutional, and I am fairly certain the state leaders knew this, but chose to
ignore it as their new godly emergency powers supposedly allowed them to enforce anything that they chose,
without disclosing any evidence, reasoning or explanation.

COVID Injections:
The injections were not fit for purpose, poorly tested, rushed through on false promises and pretexts that there
were no other appropriate treatments. Cheap, useful and evidence-based early treatments were deliberately
vilified and subsequently banned so that the injections could be approved for widespread use. These injections
have killed Australians and the fact that our death rate is now 15-20% higher than normal is a testament to
this. It is the elephant in the room that all state and federal Governments have not only refused to
acknowledge, but have actively blocked any mention or investigation into. The fact that these injections would
kill was obvious from the early research particulars released by the manufacturers. The research was heavily
biased and methodologically appalling, data was hidden and retracted, and any randomisation was abandoned
at the 3 month mark when all control subjects were injected with the intervention. They were never tested for
transmission, deaths in the intervention group were higher than the control group suggesting that the
injections raised an individual's risk of death, long-term effect was impossible to measure past 3 months, and
this novel medical technology had previously failed ethics approvals ad nauseum as animal testing results were
horrific. Those in power knew all of this, obscured or hid the facts, removed competition, enacted emergency
laws to allow their use, signed secretive deals with manufacturers that were then sealed from the public for 2
generations, pushed these injections through a now friendly propaganda-esque media onto an unwitting,
overly trusting and uninformed public, knowing full well that it was unlikely to curtail transmission. On top of
this, the data provided by the manufacturers on symptom reduction or injury avoidance was so shaky it was no
surprise that in the aftermath of the injection drives, it was clear that there was no benefit whatsoever when
comparing injury and death rates of the injected to the un-injected. In fact Government health department's
own data progressively showed that the more injections people took, the more likely they were to contract the
virus, become significantly unwell from it, and were also at a higher risk of death from it. This is roughly around
the time that health department's conveniently all chose to cease providing regular data updates.

National Cabinet:
National Cabinet is not a Cabinet and was deemed by the courts of Australia to not be a Cabinet. The
Government seemingly ignored this and has continued to incorrectly refer to the meeting of state Premiers a
Cabinet. This should be ceased immediately and the public should be notified of its improper use and
designation over the past 3 years.

Government Secrecy:
Has been unacceptable throughout this pandemic. No reasoning was ever given by any Government for any
rulings/mandates and all pertinent information has been blocked from entering the public sphere.



                                                                                                                    3
12.12.2023
