Dear Sir / Madam

I write this as an individual and not representing any group, body or organisation. I am Bruce F
Vandepeer of                                      I have a military background, a Veteran and have
commanded at sea and ashore. I also have written papers in a Government Scientific Organisation as
well as having been the H

I submit this document because of my concern about the way things were handled and the cost that
has and continues to be regarding the deleterious effect of the actions taken by Government and the
Public Service on the Australian people. As a student of history (as should all people be) I am well
aware of problems in the past when actions taken by Government actually bring about the
destruction of society even going back 2,500 + years, it is easy to see.

In the Australian Governmental system the Parliamentarians represent the people and serve and
govern on behalf of and for the people; and the public service, well their name is self explanatory.
Both these groups are responsible and must be held to account for fulfilling their responsibilities in
both a positive and negative sense.

Being brief 21 Feb 21, the then Minister for Health stated in an interview with ABC David Speers inter
alia the following in relation to vaccines:

"GREG HUNT:
Well, obviously that is a long-term goal, but one of the things we've been cautious of is that you
have three factors.

You have coverage, you also have the question of the transmission capacity and impact, although
the evidence coming out of international studies now, both clinical trials and real-world data, is that
the different vaccines are showing a strong transmission impact.[that maybe true but not in the
sense he meant]

But we always have to be aware of the capacity of the virus to mutate, and we have to look at what
is called the longevity of the protection with regards to the antibodies that are developed, and the
world doesn't know that answer, [and so he still did what he did!!]

The world is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever, and we will
have enormous amounts of data.

But what's the message for the public? It's safe, it's effective, it will help protect you, but it will also
help protect your mum and dad, your grandparents, your nonna, all of Australia."
Firstly: Australia has signed international agreements that with medical trials informed consent is
required at law. Greg Hunt being the Federal Minister for Health needed to ensure that was what
happened in Australia and yet people were coerced / pressured to take the vaccine hence not
informed consent. You also need to check the Macquarie Dictionary to determine what a vaccine is;

                                       '' .'4 ' '  \ ~               A    ''\'.^(that will all be for a
later date)] or even the following: from the TGA Vaccines:
(https://www.tga.gov.au/news/blog/vaccines-inoculating-against-fear) accessed 12 Dec 23:
'Vaccination is one of the most effective ways to prevent diseases. A vaccine helps the body's
immune system to recognise and fight pathogens like viruses or bacteria, which then keeps us safe
from the diseases they cause. Vaccines protect against more than 25 debilitating or life-threatening
diseases...’[bold not in original]
Greg Hunt needs to be held to account for his lack of action on Australians being pressured into
being administered a trial drug as the rules are very clear. This also applies to the Federal public
servants that did nothing to prevent this process there is no plausible deniability.

Secondly: Mr Hunt, stated as above, that the vaccine was 'safe ... effective', the following is relevant
to this situation and since it was a trial these are some results of that trial. Initially info from the ABS:


            Australian Deaths COVID 19 ABS
 12000
 10000
  8000
  6000
  4000
  2000
      0
                  2020             2021              2022


     Year     Deaths

     2020          900   NO vaccines available

     2021         1122   Vaccines rolled out as year progressed

     2022         9856   Australia became very highly vaccinated

Finally info from NSW of people dying from COVID 19: COVID-19 weekly surveillance reports
(https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/lnfectious/covid-19/Pages/weekly-reports-archive.aspx) accessed
12 Dec 23. From the summaries on page one of the weekly data for each of the five July 22 reports
the following data is collated, to keep this brief: a total of 663 people died of whom 462 were at least
triple jabbed, 162 were double jabbed, 38 likely double jabbed and one not determined.

That would make 662 vaccinated and one not known, hence on page two of each of those weeks the
following statement: 'COVID-19 vaccines are very effective in preventing the severe impacts of
infections with the virus' could only be described as bureaucratic cognitive dissonance. |


This data would show the worst vaccine in history and yet people were pressured to take it, that is
why there are international rules regarding medical trials. If people are in breach of the rules they
need to be held to account. As a Commanding Officer I had to apply due diligence when I sent
personnel on operations and so does every one else. I didn't have months to deal with issues to save
peoples lives it sometimes got down to seconds and be assured if I had lost anyone it would have
been courts examining my actions over lengthy time frames.

There is no excuse for getting this wrong at law and those involved must be held to account. In view
of the need for this I consider that this enquiry needs to be changed to a Royal Commission.

Yours sincerely

Bruce F Vandepeer
