         Ms Helen Nandlal (BScHons, DipT, AdvDip BB), Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.


    1.        Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
1.1 How should systems anticipate, adapt, and respond to pandemics?
1.1.1. You anticipate, adapt, and respond to pandemics (and all other threats to our country) by allowing free
flow of information and discussion, and letting individuals decide - free from coercion. You do not lock them
up, force them to take medical interventions, and you get out of the doctor/patient relationship.

1.1.2. You allow people to try different approaches, and God-forbid, allow unbiased recording and open
reporting of data obtained from the various approaches taken.

1.1.3. You listen to those who know, and are qualified (not psychologists, but virologists and other renowned
specialists in their field,                              - even if it contradicts what your masters within unelected
international organisations are telling you to do.

1.1.4. You never lock up people, shut down businesses, allow public officers to vilify and slander those they
disagree with. You provide everyone with the tools to make their own decisions about their own health - free
from shaming, isolation, or lockout.

1.1.5. The best way to prevent another pandemic event is to: (1) Do the above. (2) Not agree with any
international organisation calling a pandemic without free and open flow of proper scientific information,
openly shared with the population. (3) Educate the population about how to be healthy. I mean really educate
them. Spend money there and you won’t need to line big pharma’s pockets so much.

1.2 Wide-ranging impacts
Wide-ranging impacts to me include:

    1.2.1.    Isolation of my husband from his children and me for months at a time due to state border closures
              (despite him being coerced by his workplace to be fully jabbed).
    1.2.2.    Inability to attend family funerals, or to visit those sick and ailing in other states due to border
              closures.
    1.2.3.    Fleeing my home with my children in the middle of the night because during the flight, returning
              from                                        quarantine status changed (not due to any actual
              sickness from him) which meant that we all would have been locked up at home for two weeks
              during school term, and I would not be able to work. The toll on                      alone at home
              foliowing^^^^^^^^^M- and me and the kids having to find another home for two weeks was
              terrible.
    1.2.4.    Ongoing psychological distress at the response from all sectors of the community to my valid (and
              increasingly proven) concerns. I was abused, locked out of businesses, and then forced to watch
              Premiers and Prime Ministers abuse me on national television - almost suggesting I be held down
              and force-jabbed, and at the very least locked up. I did catch COVID-19, and despite my age (>50) and
              co-morbidities (an autoimmune disease), I recovered. No long COVID here. The same with my
                                    at the time), and I’ll add, all my natural friends. I have also not experienced
              another COVID-19 infection since, which I can’t say for all my jabbed friends.

                                                         Page 1 of 3
      Ms Helen Nandlal (BScHons, DipT, AdvDip BB), Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
    1.2.5.   Fear for my children with the real potential that they would be forced to get the jab or be unable to
             go to school or university. (You do know don’t you that young people and adults <50 are <1% likely
             to even get sick from COVID-19, and natural people are no more likely to spread COVID-19 than
             jabbed citizens - don’t you?)
    1.2.6.       Harassment by the state via tracking apps which were enforced by police officers.
    1.2.7.       Now, all my jabbed friends are getting cancers or heart problems.
    1.2.8.       ^^^^^^^Hmust now                                          as he was forced to take the jab or lose his
             job. My fear is that he is now susceptible to heart issues because this is one of the common side effects
             of lipid nanoparticles protecting the mRNA, carrying it throughout the body and inducing the body
             to make the spike protein.

1.3 Specific areas of the review
1.3.1. Government lied to us constantly and haven’t stopped lying since. Documents from Pfizer (only one
example) show Pfizer never tested whether their product would prevent the spread and showed an unacceptable
risk for death and disablement, especially for babies and pregnant women; and yet all government officials
spouted the one line: “Safe and effective.” Government hid information from the people - contracts with vaccine
manufacturers and others. Money flowed invisibly and I suspect in corrupt ways.

1.3.2. Trust in medical institutions, and especially government institutions is rock bottom following the
Australian and State Governments’ responses to COVID-19. I’m not surprised. Despite there being alternative
solutions to prevention and treatment of COVID-19, the only measures advertised to the public were - take pain
killers and drink water, then go to hospital if you can’t breathe; and, of course, vaccinate. Safe and effective
treatments were outlawed. Public messaging was consistent but was knowingly incorrect. The public was
consistently misled, filled with fear messages, and coerced into getting a medical procedure which has proven to
be deadly for an unacceptable number of Australians. Why has all-cause mortality soared to over 15% Australia­
wide since the widespread coercion/mandating of COVID-19 ‘vaccines’ in 2022? This must never happen again.
Safe and effective treatments should be distributed throughout the population, and real health messages must be
encouraged - such as messages around exercise and healthy living.

Frontline Doctors were not allowed to tell patients what they really thought or treat them how they saw best - at
risk of being struck from the register. This must never happen again. Restore and enshrine into law that
government must keep its nose out of the patient/doctor relationship and allow doctors to prescribe even ‘horse
wormer’ (you all know it wasn’t that but let everyone think so - shame on you!) if they think Ivermectin will
help their patient.

1.3.3. Suicide went through the roof. Child and spousal abuse went through the roof. All cause mortality went
through the roof (following rollout of the so-called ‘vaccines’). The worst impacted were the most disadvantaged
of our communities - the poor, the ill, the alone, the elderly. Do not ever again lock down, force-vaccinate, lock
out, or any other evil, disastrous, and ineffective measure. Always let openness, human contact, relationships,
community, and work continue as these are the best measures that can be taken in any situation, especially a
pandemic.


                                                       Page 2 of 3
       Ms Helen Nandlal (BScHons, DipT, AdvDip BB), Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
1.3.4. During COVID-19 government-sponsored hysteria, Australians were forced to remain overseas, Australians
were vilified by their own government and media, Australians were unable to see their loved ones - for what? I
am disgusted in all Australian governments - their non-response, their debasing themselves before international
organisations who think they should run all our lives. The focus on vaccines to cure all ills ignores basic human
biology (i.e., too many vaccines/boosters weaken the immune system) and seems only a means to line the already
bursting pockets of fat cat pharmaceutical companies. We have existing knowledge, medical interventions and so
on - including repurposed pharmaceuticals - to use.

1.3.5. Governments Australia-wide, through lockdowns, mandates, forced vaccination and mask-wearing ensured
the death, not only of people, but also of small businesses throughout the country - there’s your labour shortage
right there! All businesses are still struggling as people who have been forced to quit (if they don’t take an
experimental, dangerous, and ineffective so-called ‘vaccine’) are now doing other things (e.g., nurses, doctors,
pilots, etc. are doing other things). They had to support their families somehow. All government measures have
proven to be worse than COVID-19, long term. So, not only do you have a population sicker physically and
mentally due to COVID-19 measures and so-called vaccines, but the population is poorer materially. COVID-19
period was the biggest money grab I have ever seen, with the rich getting very, very richer and the poor getting
poorer.

Lockdowns, mask-wearing, forced vaccination (coercion is still force), forced isolation should never happen again
in Australia - ever.

1.3.6. There should be rapid and extensive reparation to all those who lost health, life, and a means to earn
money because of the wrong measures taken by all Australian Governments during 2020-2022.

1.3.7. Re: Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing and
homelessness measures, family, and domestic violence measures in areas of Commonwealth Government
responsibility): If you don’t lock people up, force them out of a job, and bathe them in fear, they’ll do much
better. Never do that again!

1.3.8. The mechanism should always be - open and honest information and dialogue. People are sick of being
lied to. And because of what was done during COVID-19 by all governments, they are sick.


2. Request

I request that a Royal Commission be set up which is properly staffed by representatives from all sides of the
fence - free of stacking - and which will be tasked to:

2.1. Hear and publish all facts and knowledge available from reputable sources (Nationally and Internationally)
    about the efficacy of all COVID-19 measures, especially the continued promotion of the experimental,
    dangerous so-called ‘vaccine’.
2.2. Find, pursue, and prosecute all those in government, bureaucracy, and in the media who either knowingly or
    through incompetence allowed and publicised falsehoods and either knowingly or through incompetence
    persecuted innocent conscientious objectors.


                                                       Page 3 of 3
