Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry by the National Centre for
Immunisation Research and Surveillance (NCIRS) Australia, December 2023
Key points
The national response to the COVID-19 pandemic was swift, comprehensive and
effective overall. In preparation for future pandemics and to leverage learnings from
COVID-19 to improve health and wellbeing, consideration (with a focus on
vaccination) should be given to:
1. improving leadership and governance structures around vaccine procurement,
   policymaking, and program design and delivery
2. providing greater transparency around evidence and decision-making
   underpinning vaccine recommendations
3. establishing comprehensive, strategically designed, real-time national linked data
   systems that include key health and other outcome variables, as well as greater
   investment in rapid assessment of the effectiveness of vaccines, antivirals and
   other interventions
4. further developing and utilising evidence-based assessment of vaccine
   acceptance and uptake, particularly in known high-risk, low-coverage populations,
   to both improve routine vaccine update and enable rapid expansion of uptake in a
   pandemic
5. continuing to expand systems and conduct high-quality studies that monitor and
   provide evidence to the public on vaccine safety while simultaneously countering
   disinformation.

Organisation statement and role in COVID-19 response
NCIRS, Australia’s immunisation public health agency, was established in 1997 in
conjunction with the National Immunisation Program. NCIRS provides expert
technical support and leadership in national evidence-informed immunisation policy
and guideline development; immunisation program development and evaluation;
vaccine-preventable disease epidemiologic assessment; and monitoring of vaccine
coverage, factors impacting uptake and vaccine effectiveness and safety. NCIRS is
funded by the Australian Government (DoHAC, DFAT for work in the Indo-Pacific),
the NSW Government, the World Health Organization, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance
and various research granting bodies.
NCIRS’ contributions to the national COVID-19 pandemic response were diverse and
multifaceted. Key examples of our work included:
■ provision of comprehensive technical and scientific support to the Australian
  Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI), including its COVID-19
  Working Groups (>95 ATAGI meetings, >82 technical documents)
■ presenting and disseminating disease- and vaccine-relevant technical information
  to other key national groups and committees, such as the Australian Health
   Protection Principal Committee, the Communicable Diseases Network Australia,
   states/territories and others
■ dissemination to key stakeholders of high-quality research and information on
   COVID-19 vaccine candidate development, vaccine effectiveness and global
   COVID-19 variants
■ first and ongoing COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness analyses (in partnership with
  jurisdictions and the Commonwealth) to monitor impact on severe disease
■ expanding our national vaccine safety monitoring program, AusVaxSafety, to
   conduct near-real-time COVID-19 vaccine safety surveillance (over 6 million


Oncirs                     COVID-19 Response Inquiry                              1
  surveys) and conducting extensive analyses of a range of potential adverse
  events following immunisation
■ designing and co-leading the Australian COVID-19 Serosurveillance Network’s
  national serosurveys to measure SARS-CoV-2 antibody prevalence in target
  populations
■ studying COVID-19 transmission and severity in schools and early childhood
  education and care settings in children and staff to inform school opening
  practices.
Responding to the Inquiry Terms of Reference
 1. Leadership and governance on vaccine procurement, policy and program delivery
Early in the pandemic, substantial challenges occurred in vaccine procurement,
planning for vaccine delivery and communication, in the context of initially
constrained vaccine supply and adjustments to recommendations in the wake of
serious albeit very rare adverse events. While greater capacity for effective strategic
and operational management developed during the pandemic, the many lessons
learned need to be incorporated into new plans and operational response strategies
for future pandemics.
A more strategic leadership and governance framework that is fit-for-purpose for
future pandemics will best be established by improving these processes for
Australia’s existing range of national vaccine programs (i.e. the NIP and separate
COVID-19, Japanese encephalitis and mpox vaccine responses) now. This can be
done most effectively under an Australian Centres for Disease Control (ACDC)
whereby appropriate expertise can be sourced and coordinated. Development of a
more strategic planning process around which vaccines the Australian public needs
now and will need in the future is needed. Detailed analyses and synthesis of
evidence will be required to inform this process. Timely, comprehensive and
appropriately resourced monitoring and evaluation plans to assess all vaccine
program outcomes and impacts are also needed, particularly as many new vaccines
are becoming available. Strengthening national governance and oversight would
assist program delivery, through the timely development of a comprehensive suite of
training materials; requirements for immunisation providers and jurisdictional health
authorities on vaccine administration, handling, logistics, scheduling and clinical
administration; and consistent guidance for vaccine administration and responding to
cold chain issues.
2. Greater transparency of evidence-based decision vaccine policy making
Trust is built on understanding. Transparency of processes, both within and by
Government and to and from its peak advisory groups, was suboptimal at various
times during the pandemic. While considerable evidence supported by sound expert
input and consensus underpinned decision-making, this could not always be ‘seen’.
Much greater and more timely analysis and publication of data, technical evidence,
summary documents and presentations used for decision-making and meeting
minutes - such as is done by the US Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices, the UK Health Security Agency and others - must occur and will build
greater confidence and trust and more effective responses.
3. Responding to health needs through high-quality and timely data
There were many improvements in data availability to inform public health decision­
making during the pandemic. However, access to timely, linked data that enables


Oncirs                     COVID-19 Response Inquiry                               2
better analyses to inform national monitoring of disease burden and impacts of
interventions (vaccines, antivirals) needs further improvement. Data systems remain
fragmented. During the pandemic, more timely national collation of disease
notifications occurred, but these were unable to be linked to other data such as
hospitalisation/ICU/mortality or vaccination status. This need remains unmet without
a strategic plan underpinning it. Large states with greater workforce capacity were
able to do some linkages and analyses, but methods were inconsistent, preventing
harmonisation and leading to a ‘patchwork’ effect with information gaps.
Efforts to set up real-time linked national data systems (beyond mortality data, which
already exists in the AIR-PLIDA [formerly AIR-MADIP] resource), enabling nationally
consistent analysis, should be accelerated and assessed through demonstration
projects to test such systems outside of the acute pandemic situation. These
systems should be refined in preparation for when there is an urgent need. Further
work within the ACDC should be undertaken now. While NCIRS continues to work as
permitted with strong expertise in such data assets, we call for a collaboratively
derived and resourced preventative health strategic framework for analysis of large-
linked datasets to drive evaluation of program implementation and outcomes.
4. COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and uptake
During the pandemic there was insufficient real-time evidence on factors influencing
vaccine acceptance and uptake. This resulted in strategies not being optimally
targeted to the context and needs of specific populations. In future pandemic
responses, data collection on behavioural and social factors influencing vaccine
uptake and other public health-related actions should be enhanced, made more
frequent and be appropriately targeted in the context of a pandemic or an emergent
disease. This work should be done in collaboration with priority populations for co­
design and testing of tailored interventions. By working closely with experts,
academics and networks (such as the NCIRS-coordinated Collaboration on Social
Science and Immunisation), development, testing and rollout of near-real-time multi­
modal interventions to improve acceptance and coverage is possible.
5. Further strengthen systems for vaccine safety monitoring to promote confidence
Through AusVaxSafety and enhanced Therapeutic Goods Administration and
state/territory processes, Australia has become a global leader in the production of
timely, high-quality vaccine safety post-market data. However, mis- and dis­
information about vaccine safety abounds and may increase. Improvements in
vaccine safety monitoring and public communication should include better planned
and collaborative national coordination; national consistency of processes and data;
and, most importantly, more detailed epidemiologic assessment for key select and
concerning adverse events that occur after, but not necessarily from vaccines.
Systems for spontaneous reporting and AusVaxSafety active monitoring should be
augmented by both scheduled and, where needed, responsive, well-resourced
epidemiological risk-association studies, using both large-linked data and detailed
clinical case assessment. NCIRS has led the way on a small number of these
studies, but more can be done to ensure strengthening of the evidence base for
vaccine policymaking, communication strategies and accompanying resources.
NCIRS welcomes the opportunity to expand on this response through participation in
the Inquiry’s next stage of targeted stakeholder engagement, roundtables and
workshops.


Oncirs                     COVID-19 Response Inquiry                              3
