A Royal Commission into the Government response to Covid 19 must proceed if the
government legitimately wishes to review and learn from its mistakes

A destructive and hard-handed response was undertaken by the Federal and State
governments to deal with the SARS-CoV-2 (COVid 19) outbreak. The government ignored its
own preparedness plan and adopted totalitarian oppressive regulatory measures.
"Two weeks to flatten the curve" developed into a full-blown fear campaign. Never in the
history of health emergencies has only one approach been so heavily promoted.
The government was not interested in allowing the science to be scrutinised and debated.

Highly respected senior medical doctors, epidemiologist and health professionals were
silenced and threatened with disciplinary action by AHPRA if they dared to speak out against
the government line. Alternate therapies were banned or removed from circulation
(Ivermectin and Chloroquine).
The government interfered in the doctor/patient relationship. ATAGI and AHPRAs role.

Never ending lockdowns, excessive restrictions, mask mandates, coercion to take an
experimental vaccine (gene therapy), a novel and unproven vaccine technology.

At no time was "health" promoted e.g Sunlight, Vitamin D, healthy diet and exercise etc.

The fear and coercion tactics and misinformation pushed by the Federal and State
government, for an infection fatality rate of 0.15%-0.2% has had a dire impact on
Australians. The vast majority were never at risk from COVid as Government claimed they
were. (99.8% rate of full recovery for those under 70 with no serious co-morbidity). At most
it was a bad flu. The annual flu virtually disappeared.
Death numbers were inflated e.g people dying of cancer but had tested positive with COVid
was counted as a COVid death. (Dying with COVid not from COVid).

Asymptomatic spread was a blatant lie.

Families were torn apart. The most vulnerable, the sick, the elderly, the young were socially
isolated. Children could not go to school or even play. People committed suicide due to fear
instilled and lockdowns. Economies were crushed and businesses destroyed. People lost
their jobs, their homes and some their families due to the mandates and harsh restrictions.
Many were unable to bid their loved one's farewell.

PCR test used to diagnose positive infections was flawed and inaccurate (Cycle counts above
20-24). Most our labs were using CT40 creating a 90% false positive result of "infectious"
cases. The fear narrative pushed that 'cases' equated to active infections. Asymptomatic
people were being quarantined.

   -       Basic human rights violations
   -       Prohibition of Civil conscription in medical services
   -       Violation of the Biosecurity Act 2015
   -       Freedom of movement, speech etc
   -       Censorship
   -       Section 83.4 of the Criminal Code Act 1995
   -       Immunisation Handbook - Valid consent
   -       UNESCO article 6
   -       Nuremberg Code Article 1

Many of these Acts/Laws amendments pushed through with changes as government knew
they were violating rights.

Experimental Gene Therapy - not vaccine was pushed onto the entire population. A novel
and unproven therapy which even our Federal Health Minister described Australia's
COVidl9 vaccine roll out as being part of a global clinical trial.
The 'vaccine" was pushed on pregnant women, the elderly, the sick and most vulnerable not
to mention our children. The vaccine efficacy and safety were unknown in all of these
groups.

The vaccine companies' trial and study documentation and surveillance data post Injection
from overseas revealed adverse health results linked to the vaccines. Those Medical
doctors, researchers speaking out and trying to shed light on the "other science" were
threatened by their own governing body and labelled "Conspiracy Theorists".

ATAGI/TGA trusted the




The Media was complicit in this with their lies of stopping transmission.

Mandates are still enforced in many professions.

Immunity and No accountability to vaccine companies.

Real World Data on vaccine death and injury continues to be suppressed and ignored. Why?
