Submission


Inquiry Into Federal Government Response to Covid 19 Pandemic


15 December 2023



Having just heard about this inquiry, and the deadline, I write as an individual at the 11th hour. Due to

the actions of the Australian Government during the Covid 19 Pandemic, I saw my business and faith

in our leaders and the health system, crumble. At the time I was working as a

in aged care, and unable to visit my clients due to the national vaccine mandates. I am not sure what
was promised by the Federal Government to the States, but I was not blind to the strategy of shifting

of responsibility and accountability from Federal to State Government around the mandating of

vaccines.



At the time of the pandemic, doctors and health care professionals were threatened by APHRA not to

in any way, advise against Covid vaccination. This meant that 'informed choice' was removed. Many

workers and residents alike in aged care facilities were bullied into having the 'vaccine'. Those who

chose the alternative, lost their jobs. Residents were isolated in their rooms. Families of residents

who could not in conscience take the vaccine, were prevented from seeing their loved ones.

Also, at the time of the pandemic, the Australian Government listened to selected 'experts' on

treatment for and management of Covid 19. It proved to be a disaster! People are dead, horribly,

injured, families have been shattered, businesses destroyed and as a society we will take some time

to heal. Meanwhile, there were thousands of world-renowned doctors, scientists, virologists and

vaccine experts who were ignored and demonised for their views opposing. True science is about

debate. Yet, scientific debate and workable treatments that had been proven in real time were put

forward by the Front Line Covid Clinical Carers and ignored. These treatments were safe, effective

and very affordable. There was one narrative. It was all about the vaccine. Why? No profits in safe,

effective, proven medications that are out of patent!



The Australian people have a right to know all the details of the deals that were made with

pharmaceutical companies regarding the vaccines/mRNA gene therapy. What rewards were given to

parliamentarians and bureaucrats who pushed this vaccine agenda, and in particular those at the

TGA. Why were safe and effective medications banned? With the recent release of some of the Pfizer

documents, we now know that proper testing was never done. Certainly not on pregnant women.

Yet, pregnant women were encourage to take the vaccine. How is that acceptable? In addition, we
now know that the vaccine was not manufactured in the same way, using the same components as

was tested and had preliminary approval. There have been many pertinent questions around these

issues put forward during Senate hearings, yet, the answers have not been forthcoming. Rather they

continue to be evaded. All this requires full investigation and disclosure to the Australian people.



We are on the brink of signing a Death Warrant for democracy in Australia. The WHO Pandemic

Treaty is just that. We must not participate in this. From the beginning, Covid 19 advise from the

WHO proved to be a disaster. The origins of the virus have yet to be properly investigated. Australia

must maintain complete sovereignty and individual must be free to choose their own health

treatments, including traditional and natural therapies. We must not take directives from unelected
bureaucrats who receive huge amounts of funding from pharmaceutical companies. The blatant

conflicts of interest must be properly addressed and correct protocols observed.



The Australian Government stood by while their agencies and the states imposed lockdowns,

inhumane treatment of citizens including using harmful weapons against them, bullying and

blackmail and generally the destruction of our society. Never should we let this happen again! This

extreme government overreach and violation of human rights requires nothing less than a Royal

Commission into all things Covid is what the Australian People required.




                                                ...0O0...
