Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Considering

1. The government's approach to Covid was an uncritical and unthinking acceptance of data
projections, later found to be wildly inaccurate, from a known source of prior erroneous projections.

2. There was undue influence to the decision making process of the media, scientific and health
institutions, authorities like the WHO and governments by the extensive funding and influence of
them by persons and organisations with a vested interest in the outcome, notably^^^^^fvia the
                                         others who made billions by investing in novel gene
therapies erroneously labelled as vaccines that have since proven to be disastrous to the health of
those receiving them.

3. The government's response measures were all known by experts at the time to be physically and
mentally harmful (masks, social distancing, lockdowns, experimental gene therapies) and have
subsequently been proven so in follow up studies, and the government steadfastly refused to listen
to the advice of these experts, preferring instead to adopt the recommendations and purchase
products from, in Phizer's case,^^^^^^^|, and in Moderna's case, an organisation who had

              (SARS Covid-19 - The Who, How, What, When, Where and Why
https://www.tomgrimshaw.com/tomsblog/?p=34279)

4. EVERY SINGLE THING the government and medical authorities said or decreed has been
proven wrong (43 of them documented at https://www.tomgrimshaw.com/tomsblog/?p=34451)

5. What's worse, the government are still promoting the lie that the vaccines are safe and effective,
should be continued and are covering up the harm done. Despite many researchers and health
professionals analysing the data and calling for their immediate suspension due to the alarming
increase in excess deaths since the Covid gene therapy rollout.

6. The government's and the medical authorities' draconian measures violated doctor/patient
relationships, informed consent, civil and human rights and the Nuremberg Code.

In light of the above it could be logically argued that the government was an active participant in
the largest crime ever committed, has no business in determining health responses for the people,
should disband the existing Health Authorities and leave responsibility for deciding the appropriate
responses to health threats to those most informed and intimately interested in truth, the two
participants to the patient/health practitioner relationship.

Any person or organisation who has a track record as abysmally poor as the government's has
absolutely no right being involved in any important decision regarding the health of their
population.

In fact, in any regulated industry, irresponsible actions on the part of a person or private company
such as those foul deeds described above would have that person or organisation prosecuted to the
fullest extent of the law. Obviously the perpetrators of the above consider themselves above the law.

Tom Grimshaw
