We have had no paid income for us over 2 years now due to WA vaccine mandates. My wife was not allowed
to work                           She was dismissed by the WA Department^^^^H for not being
vaccinated and not showing proof of vaccination 8 days before the mandates were lifted in June 2022.

We were coerced to leave the place of my wife's work^^^^^l and return to ^^^^|at our own expense
(Covid Refugee). No payment of pro rata Long Service Leave.

We have been living off our assets since the 1 December 2021.

The Federal Government failed to protect its own citizens from the States mandates. Surely the Federal
Government could use its powers under the Constitution to overrule the States. The Federal Government
also failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation. Attention is drawn to the failed COVID-19 Vaccination
Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine
Discrimination) Bill 2023.

The Federal Government also failed to uphold individual right to medical self determination in violation of
Article 7 of the ICCPR (International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights) and IHRL (International Human
Rights Law). This was clearly the case with mandates put in place by the Federal Government for workers in
particular sectors.



So many unanswered questions

Why use a worthless PCR test with up to 90% false positives.

Why didn't Government reassure the population?

Why did the Government constantly raise fear levels?

Why have mask mandates? Refer Cochrane report on masks

Why were police and the army used to roll out a medical procedure (vaccines)?

Why were people bribed to be vaccinated with free give aways or even raffle tickets?

Why were vaccination clinics setup in car parks of retail stores, shopping centres etc?

Why have all the vaccination clinics now disappeared?

Why did the Government buy up to 10 vaccines for every Australian at a massive cost?

How many vaccines have now been destroyed?

Why were populations across Australia lockdown?

Why were borders closed?

Why were a the unvaccinated locked out of cafes, restaurants, hotels, sporting events, cinemas etc?

Why did Politicians bully and name call the unvaccinated?

Why were media and famous TV and sports stars telling the people to get vaccinated?

Why has there been no enquiry into excess deaths from mid 2021 following the vaccine rollout?

Why were Doctors de registered for questioning the Government narrative of "Safe & Effective"?
Why was the Australian army used to enforce lockdowns?

Why was the "absolute risk reduction" of vaccines ignored?

Why were vaccines continued to be pushed when even the "relative risk reduction" began to plummet?

Why were Ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine banned for use?

Why did Governments round Australia remove basic Human Rights of Bodily Autonomy, Informed Medical
Consent and the Right to a Paid Income?

Why wasn't Vitamin C & D used as a treatment for COVID-19?

Why are vaccines still pushed when well known they do not stop transmission?

Why vaccines still pushed when the Cleveland Ohio study showed the more vaccines you have more likely to
contract COVID-19?

Why were the younger people mandated and told to get vaccinated when at no risk to COVID-19?

Why are so few people choosing to have the latest COVID-19 booster (less than 10%)?

Have the TGA, ATAGI and AHPRA been corrupted by Government and Big Phama?

Why did the Australian Government commit the Australian people to the worlds largest vaccine experiment
(Greg Hunt)?

Why weren't the Pifzer and Moderna covid-19 vaccines reviewed and approved by the Office of the Gene
Technology Regulator?

When will COVID-19 vaccine recipients in Australia be advised there was DNA in the vaccine which has been
confirmed world wide?

Why were schools shutdown when evidenced showed children not a risk from COVId-19?

Why were Australian citizens censored by social media at the request of the Australian Government that did
not support the Government COVID-19 narrative?

How did legislation in Australia such as the Public Health Act WA 2016 be put in place before the "pandemic"
without scrutiny from the Public or the Federal Government? No one is safe in this country until Legislation
such as this is removed across Australia so we never see a repeat of the COVID-19 restrictions.

How many Doctors have been suspended from practicing by AHPRA during the COVID-19 years?

Why one day you were fined $50,000 if caught using a RAT test, next day they were handed out for free and
to test frequently? Positive RAT test to be advised to the Department of Heath as a communicable disease.

Why restrictions and vaccine mandates on young people when the average age of COVID-19 deaths was 83
above the average life expectancy age?
Please refer to the attached Denis Rancourt publication regarding

Probable causal association between Australia's new
regime of high all-cause mortality and its COVID-19
vaccine rollout.
His analysis of All Cause Mortality shows there was no pandemic up until the vaccines were rolled out. Then
everything changed following the vaccine roll out. The data shows what really happened in Australia. All
Cause Mortality from the ABS is one statistic Governments could not manipulate.

Meanwhile the real pandemics in Australia of obesity, diabetes and Vitamin D deficiency, resulting from poor
Government health advice over the past 50 years, was further exasperated by the COVID-19 measures. I
have not listened to Government health advice for many years. No way were we ever going to submit to a
provisionally approved experimental gene therapy vaccine with no medium to long term safety data.



My Mother was in a Nursing home. Due to not being vaccinated against the Flu or COVID-19 myself or my
wife were not allowed to visit her. In                   were advised she had contracted COVID-19. She
had been vaccinated against COVID-19 at least 3 times. After one day her Doctor advised no prescription of
anti-virals and straight to palliative care medications of morphine and midazolam. She passed away five days
later, given no chance to recover and struggling to breath. Her death certificate cause of death was COVID-
19 (6 days), Contributory cause                                                     This death certificate is a
fraud,|                                                                                         During the
COVID-19 years midazolam use skyrocketed.

Thankyou.
