Submission to the COVID enquiry



Giving us one week's notice to write submissions, just before Xmas, and refusing a Royal Commission
into the government's response to COVID just goes to show you are trying to avoid actual scrutiny.
You are paying lip service to an election promise. The State governments' actions must be included,
so a Royal Commission is what is required. And prosecution of officials issuing misinformation and
disinformation is required if the electorate is ever to trust government again. Instead, you try and
introduce the mis and disinformation act, a piece of legislation of Orwellian magnitude. The
government is the holder of the only truth; and any other version will be punished!

The Albanese government promised a proper enquiry. This is not it, trying to sneak it through before
Xmas. You are holding the electorate IN CONTEMPT.

The mandates were illegal and those charged under disobeying mandates, those cases were thrown
out of court. The vaccines were NEVER safe and effective. MRNA technology is not proven safe and
effective. Using the spike protein has proven inflammatory to many parts of the body and it appears
that the more jabs one takes, the more likely one is to contract Covid. The jab never stayed in the
upper arm, it traversed to all organs in the body, especially the reproductive organs. No-one gave
informed consent as the side effects were not disclosed. You abolished privacy of medical
information with the issuing of vaccine passports. You had to show the door staff at the local RSL
whether you were vaccinated or not to have a Saturday night club roast! That's breaching our
medical privacy.

Myocarditis and pericarditis have gone through the roof as have many cardiac conditions in age
groups ever younger. Young people were never at risk from Covid. Young people are dropping dead
of heart attacks and strokes. You advertise the signs of strokes in young people on the sides of buses
to normalise the activity. Auto immune diseases have skyrocketed as have turbo cancers. All since
2021. No coincidence. The excess death rate is through the roof, worse than in




Government overreach was unprecedented. You proved we lived in a fascist State. The media was
bought off and reported nothing but propaganda. Trust was lost, no-one trusts government anymore.
You turned our^^|into a propaganda machine. You shamed anyone who questioned the vaccines.
You destroyed the premise of science, which is to question everything! Only one narrative was
acceptable and pushed. Science was bought off by the biopharmaceutical complex.

You banned Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine without independently testing them. The TGA did
not test the vaccines, they relied on the FDA to do the testing. The FDA relied


must be disbanded. Start again, 100 percent government funding, no industry funding. Skerritt and
all the CMO's of the States must be tried and held to account. The^^^^| caused by the vaccines
has caused about 13 million deaths worldwide, by conservative estimates, and counting. Twice the
number of deaths                                          For shame!

This is the worst conspiracy come true of my entire lifetime. The recent release of the NZ database by
the                       only confirms our convictions, there is no chance that these vaccines were
no                                 The Australian data must also be released. I have no confidence you
will do the right thing in releasing this data.
             have suffered severe effects from the lockdowns,
                                                                                            She trusts
no-one.

You will ignore this and all the other submissions. You will continue to pander to the WEF and the
WHO, giving away our democracy to the New World Order as dictated by Klaus Schwab and his
minions, Jacinda Ardern, Greg Hunt and Trudeau and the like.

Shame on you! Think of your children's futures, and those of your grandchildren. I have lost all faith
in governments, yet I devoted my career to the public service, working with some of the most
vulnerable populations over my career spanning 44 years. Trust the government. We are here to
help. What a sick joke.



Janette Chegwidden

11/12/2023
