To the Members of the Independent Panel

I am writing this submission to voice concerns over many aspects of Australia's response to the
COVID-19 pandemic. While I recognise the Inquiry's goal to improve future pandemic preparedness,
there are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny. A truly comprehensive review should
encompass all aspects of the government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's
scope.


I note that unilateral state and territory government actions are excluded from this Inquiry, which
seems ridiculous when reviewing our nation's pandemic response as a whole. However, our Federal
Government sat on its hands and let its people suffer at the hands of state and territory leaders - a
failure to uphold our democratic freedoms, and block the worst restrictions such as long, state-
imposed lockdowns, border controls and vaccine mandates, despite anti-discrimination bills being
presented in Parliament to do so. We, the people, do not wish to hear blame for this being directed
solely at the former Liberal Government for these failings, as Labour was strangely silent on all these
issues despite being in opposition at the time. All of the significant, invasive measures that were put
in place for the people of Australia should be reviewed to assess their suitability, effectiveness and
whether they were proportionate - more than three years on, we are still suffering economic, social
and psychological impacts that were not sufficiently considered in advance. There may be many
more long-term effects not even discovered yet.

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) spectacularly FAILED our nation, by blindly agreeing to
the use of new, unproven and almost untested gene therapies from marketing material supplied by
pharmaceutical companies, that were then widely referred to as vaccines despite not meeting any of
the criteria for immunity and stopping transmission that are the very definition of a vaccine. My
understanding is that the effectiveness boasted about by^^Het al was the relative risk reduction
in their pitifully small trial samples instead of the absolut^sl^eduction we should have been
hearing about, and no scientific rigour was required in Government at any level before subjecting
Australians to these injections, which in the end did NOTHING to 'stop the spread' and 'keep
everyone in our community safe'. Considering the TGA's web-site says they are "Australia's
government authority responsible for evaluating, assessing and monitoring products that are
defined as therapeutic goods. We regulate medicines, medical devices and biologicals to help
Australians stay healthy and safe.", it should be shut down immediately and every single person on
the payroll of that authority should answer charges for failing to execute any evaluation, assessment
or on-going monitoring of the safety signals for the mRNA therapies, plus even worse, hiding
evidence of harm due to the use of the improperly-approved COVID-19 injections.

As if that's not bad enough, the Australian Dept of Health and Aged Care has stated that over $18
billion has been spent on the COVID-19 Health response, including the "Vaccine Agreements" that
made huge profits for pharmaceutical companies, yet who bear no responsibility for the harms
caused by their products. How much of that money was then wasted after huge quantities of those
gene therapies were subsequently thrown out? Money that should be now freely directed to
compensation for Australians who have been injured as a result of using the non-vaccines, instead of
being blamed, ignored and forgotten, and struggling to access the limited funds in the extremely
narrow scope of the Federal compensation scheme.

The pillars of our free and democratic society were completely disregarded in the COVID-19
response in Australia. Dissenting voices were quashed and ignored, and it is quite clear that there
was an unwarranted use of fear in public health messaging. Mental health of our nation as a whole
has plummeted since 2020, and I urge the Panel to review all the questions posed by submitters to
ensure transparency, accountability, and the safeguarding of Australian values and liberties even
while public health measures may be implemented in the future.


Yours sincerely
