I strongly urge the Labor government to undertake a proper investigation via a Royal Commission to
ensure that the following points I submit are investigated thoroughly.


   1. A full investigation into the vaccine procurement. The conflicts of interests that exist between
        the Pharmaceutical companies and some members on the board of the TGA,
   2. A full disclosure of the science behind all the lockdowns. The result of the lockdowns was the
        cause of stress, aggravated medical illness, loss of income and the incurring of added
        expenditure in my family. My      who resides in^| came to Australia in January 2020 to
        farewell a dying relative, who subsequently died in February. She was due to fly out of
        Australia on anflight in March, however before she could leave, the country and
        States were all locked down. No flights in or out of Australia until late July 2020, when she
        was able to board an I       Bflight back tcB I She was trapped in Australia from March to
        July 2020. And here I give a brief description of what this caused her. She has rental
        properties in No one was there to collected rents, tenants did not pay for 5 months. She
        is a^^^Hand has                  She ran out of her medication and couldn't get
        more until she could see a doctor. Not easy to do without a Medicare card. Even though she
        is a pensioner that was not recognised here so she was required to pay the full cost of
        medical services. ln^Has she is on the State register for serious illness, her medication is
        free. While trapped in Australia, not only was she required to pay full price for her medication
        but it was difficult to obtain.. For example, she is on tablets rdfor her
                   | this was banned by the government. So it was virtually impossible to find a
        doctor that wasn't scared to write out a script, { which addresses also my point 6 below}, and
        still even harder to obtain the medication. To not be able to get her medication has caused
      damage to her health.
   3. The vaccine mandates. Why it was ok to ignore "informed consent' and force everyone to
        have an experimental drug injected into them with the threat of job loss. Why were basic
      human rights ignored.
   4. A full disclosure behind the misinformation and continued lies by media, and government
        authorities regarding the ability of the vaccine to block transmission.
   5.      The censorship of vaccine injuries and the poor treatment that those injured have received.
   6.      The role AHPRA and ATAGI have played in censorship and silencing of doctors.
   7.      The role of the police force in the violation of democratic rights of law abiding citizens.


Prior to the election Mr Albanese promised a Royal Commission and full transparency. I'm only
reminding him of his promise.
