COVID ENQUIRY COMMISSION
To Whom It May Concern,
As a taxpayer, I DEMAND a royal commission for a full investigation.
As a taxpayer, I believe you must disclose the secret contracts you have made with the vaccine
manufacturers.
You have used taxpayer’s funds, so we have a right to know what you agreed to and the cost
of any contracts.
There must be an investigation as to the illegal mandates you forced on the Australian people.
Contrary to what has been stated, there are human rights laws protecting Australians from
being coerced into receiving Covid 19 vaccinations under state law.

Under section 109 of the Australian Constitution, if a state parliament and the federal
Parliament pass conflicting laws on the same subject, then the federal law overrides the state
law. Section 122 of the Constitution allows the federal Parliament to override a territory law
at any time. Some of the areas where the federal and state or territory parliaments have made
conflicting laws include the environment, health, education, heritage protection, and same-sex
marriage.

Mr Morrison consistently said the Federal Government doesn’t mandate vaccinations.


The constitution “expressly prohibits the coercion of medical and dental services in
circumstances that amount to any form of civil conscription”.

“This includes the coercive and punitive ‘No Jab’ laws, and the laws that compel private
medical information to be conscripted onto the Australian Immunisation Register,” it states.

“S51(xxiiiA) provides an express constitutional protection against forced medication.”



Article 3 of The Human Rights

Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person, yet we were not allowed to move
freely

Article 9

No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile, yet people were arrested on
the flimsiest of offences.

Article 23

Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable
conditions of work and to protection against unemployment, yet people were threatened with
the loss of their job if they didn’t follow the illegal mandates.
It is now clear that the “Official” misinformation that the vaccines would stop transmissions
and prevent you catching covid 19.

Doctors were threatened by APHRA if they didn’t follow the government line therefore
patients injected could not have given informed consent.

Expert overseas and domestic doctors were ignored stating there were medications that could
be used instead of the experimental injections that were forced on the population.

The TGA has admitted they NEVER checked the vaccines themselves but took the word of
the manufacturers. That is NOT what the TGA is supposed to do.

How can they state “safe and effective” if they never tested them?

I draw your attention to the Nuremberg Code in which it appears every rule was broken.

There must be an investigation into the EXCESS DEATHS that have occurred in Australia.

Section 92 of the Constitution


On the imposition of uniform duties of customs, trade, commerce, and intercourse among
the States, whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely
free.
Whilst the Constitution was being debated during the 1890’s, Sir Henry Parkes outlined what
the intention of this clause was:


“Australia shall be free- free on borders, free everywhere- in its trade and intercourse
between its own people; that there shall be no impediment of any kind - that there shall be
no barrier of any kind between one section of the Australian people and another; but that the
trade and general communication of these people shall flow on from one end of the continent
to the other, with no one to stay its progress or to call it to account”

ALL aspects of the last 3 years MUST be taken into account INCLUDING the states
and Premiers response.
