Introduction
My name is Peter Leversha, I am a 46 year old electrician in the state of Western Australia.


I was working as a maintenance electrician at a brand new mining camp during the height of the
pandemic and lost my job because of my refusal to take the poisonous injections that the^^^^H
government/s were trying to force upon me.


Having lost four friends/family within the pandemic, who I believe had there not been a pandemic
declared, would of still been alive today, I have decided to write this letter as I am still fuming at the
goverment response, I am even angrier that the government broke it's election promise by holding a
white wash inquiry, instead of a full royal commision.


The lack of transparency by all levels of government has completely broken my trust with
government. If a war was declared tommorow, I would not fight or die for Australia anymore.
I say that with a heavy heart as I built and maintained most of the infrastructure within Victoria and
maintained the majority of Western Australia's mining camps over the last 30 years.


As of today (14/12/23) I still haven't returned to the work force and I am not even sure I ever want
too again.
What is the point of paying tax to a government who only cares about it's own re-election. And that
goes for liberal/labor and the greens.
If it wasn't for the good senators who were and are speaking out, I would of left Australia
permanently.
And yes, I have edited this introduction multiple times to remove foul language and try and reduce
the temper in my words.
Three pages is far too inadequate too cover such a huge issue, I'm guessing this is another attempt to
silience dissent. But I will do my best to try and keep this short.


Addressing the terms of reference
Broader health and social supports.

Key points
    1.     Heath systems were unnecessarily overworked.
    2.     Social supports were not required.

Recommendations
    1. The inquiry should investigate countries where health workers handled the pandemic as just
       another one of the normal dealings in their day to day operations.
    2. The inquiry should investigate countries who did not shut down their economies at all
       during the pandemic.
Community supports.

Key points
    1.       Free vacination should of only been for those who chose it.
    2. Financial support should of been to improve health services if they had become
       overwhelmend whilst operating normally

Recommendations
    1. The inquiry should look into the contracts that were signed in secrecy as to whether those
       contracts specifically had clauses to instruct government on how they should be responding.
         I think the government were forced to make it a 'mandatory' rollout or the companies
         involved were not going to give the government priority in early access to the vaccines.
         This is a clear conflict of interest. Foreign companies should not be dicatating Australian
         health care.
    2. The inquiry should look into the evidence that many health staff were too busy carrying out
       pointless covid testing which took critical health care away from the most desperate and
       needy. And whether money spent on preventative health care would of been better used to
       eductate more health staff and carried out a better reactive response instead.

Financial support for individuals.

Key points
    1. Shutting down the economy was not necessary.

Recommendations
    1. The inquiry should look into countries who did not shut down at all.
         The majority of people would of been perfectly fine working without the jab.

Evidence
Me, I worked right through covid up until November 28, 2021. That's nearly a full two years after
the pandemic had been declared. Never once did I get sick, and I was working in a waste water
treatment plant, dealing with the effluent^H^^I^^IHH^H Literally covered
^^Hand not getting as much as a sniffle.


Governance, including roles and responsibilities.

Key points
    1. The data leading to invocation of the emergency act has never been released.

Recommendations
    1. The inquiry should look into why a state of emergency was declared and what evidence of
       people 'dying from an unknown virus' actually existed.
International polices to support Australians at home and abroad.

Key points
   1. Travel in and out of the country, including state to state, should never of been haulted.

Recommendations
   1. The inquiry should look into the cascading financial effects of shutting down the
      international and state borders on small businesses that have been decimated by the constant
      start and stopping of restrictions.


Key health response measures.

Key points
   1. The system should of been left to work as normal.

Recommendations
   1. If viruses did exist (and they dont) then there are thousands of deadly viruses going around
      at any one time. Picking out one particular virus over any other has now been proved to be
      costly and unecessary. The health system should of just been left to do it's job, with
      additional resources only allocated where deemed necessary.


Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
   populations.

Key points
   1.      Transparency is needed.
  2.       Accountability is needed.

Recommendations
   1. The silencing of dissenting voices was extreme and unecessary. The inquiry should look into
      the reasons why arguments opposing vaccines and mandates were never publicly debated.
        Why were parliments shut down, where they were in fact more needed than ever?
        Debate builds public trust, the lack of debate on any of the issues around covid meant that
        we had become a dictatorship, as was clearly shown in the horrific Victorian response.
        Where civil liberties were smashed for absolutely no benifit.
  2. The inquiry should look into the excess death rate, was it caused by missed appointments
     caused by health care workers carrying out pointless testing and bogged down with pointless
     health and safety requirements? Or was it an effect of the vaccines themselves?
  3. The inquiry should look into why is it considered to be 'anti-vaxxer' to ask simple questions
     about the efficacy of the biggest vaccine rollout in Australia's history? Why are people being
     demonised for asking valid questions? Who is gaining from their silencing?
Support for industry and businesses.

Key points
    1. Industry and businesses should never of been shut down.

Recommendations
The inquiry should look into just how many businesses closed permanetly because of government
responses. And how many of those families are now in finacial ruin because of it.


Other

Key points
    1. Totalatarian state government responses.

Recommendations
    1. The inquiry should look into how states followed diabolical communist like responses and
       how the influences of foreign governments affected state covid policies.


Summary
I have barely scratched the surface on what I would like to say in this short brief, however I will try
and summarise my key points.
    1.     Heath systems were unnecessarily overworked.
   2.      Social supports were not required.
   3.      Free vacination should of only been for those who chose it.
   4. Financial support should of been to improve health services if they had become
      overwhelmend whilst operating normally.
   5.      Shutting down the economy was not necessary.
   6.      The data leading to invocation of the emergency act has never been released.
   7.      Travel in and out of the country, including state to state, should never of been haulted.
   8.      The system should of been left to work as normal.
   9.      Transparency is needed.
    10.     Accountability is needed.
    11.     Industry and businesses should never of been shut down.




It is not the job of government to impose it's will on the people, it is the job of government to
provide services and that is it. Shooting at peaceful protestors has damaged Australia's standing in
the world and in the eyes of us Australians ourselves.
I recently travelled to Thailand for a holiday, I refuse to tell people where I come from now, because
it is just plain embarassing.

Summary evidence
I could provide thousands of documents of evidence, but I am way over the three page limit.
I also think this inquiry is a toothless tiger put out to placate the masses.
The fact there is such a short page limit should be enough to tell anyone what the outcome is going
to be.
But here, here is a simple video de-bunking viruses through well referenced research:
The Truth About Viruses - Dr Sam Bailey
And here is a page full of well researched videos from the same doctor that summarise the majority
of evidence (which can be easily fact checked) far better than just posting links to boring
documents.
COVID-19 - Dr Sam Bailey
Pick a video, their all good.


Once you realise that goverment departments have to justify their existance in order to obtain
funding, you can see the major flaws in the entire system.


Personal contact details
Peter Leversha
