11/12/2023




To The Australian Government and other reviewing bodies

Re: Submission and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry



Response Methods;

My main concern in the area of responding to the pandemic was the constant referencing to
'Experts' advice when the 2019 Pandemic response plan clearly states that decision making should
be 'evidence based', while in the beginning there may not have been sufficient evidence surrounding
COVID-19, evidence based studies and findings were being developed all over the world but the
Government chose to ignore these findings and continue to follow advice from said politically bias
'experts'.

The method used to initially to calculate the mortality risk of COVID-19 was flawed, with
epidemiologists suggesting that the CFR of COVID-19 does not reflect the risk of dying from COVID-
19. A 2020 study out of the UK presenting findings that;

"The overall death rate from covid-19 has been estimated at 0.66%, rising sharply to 7.8% in people
aged over 80 and declining to 0.00016% in children aged 9 and under."

https://www.bmj.com/content/369/bmj.ml327

With this type of evidence in mind it begs the question of how the Government justified its 'evidence
based decisions' to lock people down, restrict movements and mandate, effectively forcing people to
get vaccinated with an experimental drug created using experimental techniques.

Referencing again the Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza, section 2.6 Ethical
framework refers to 'individual liberty - Ensuring that the rights of the individual are upheld as much
as possible'. During COVID-19 the individual liberties of the Australian people were stricken from us
and stricken from the most vulnerable with;

-   restrictions on birthing support people including the fathers themselves
-   denying access to dying loved ones
-   restricting funeral attendances
-   COVID positive patients being treated like criminals, denied proper health care and empathies
-   Restricted movements of people preventing loved ones and carers from supporting one another
-   Lastly but certainly not least mandating, essentially giving the country an ultimatum of be
    vaccinated or lose your livelihood and right to free movement.

https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/05/australian-health-management-
plan-for-pandemic-influenza-ahmppi.pdf

Throughout the pandemic there were a select few people willing to speak out against the measures
taken, they were labeled as conspiracy theorists spreading misinformation, however it is now evident
that the conspiracy theorist's accuracy rate far out numbers the truths coming from our own
government.
COVID-19 Vaccines;

The contract entered by the Government with vaccine suppliers is of concern, it is currently
confidential, however having read exerts from an African contract with Pfizer is raises great concerns
around the content of the contracts and the terms of which it binds the Government to particularly
around indemnities and future supply agreements which may lead to the continuation of
misinformation and promotion of a vaccine that is unsafe and unnecessary in most cases given the
above mentioned death rates.

The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety information regarding the vaccines is an issue with the
TGA relying on sparce Pfizer and FDA review instead of conducting its own safety testing. There is
concern around the treatment of Doctors with AHPRA under fire for trying to silence Doctors
speaking against the vaccine. The lack of acknowledgement of recent studies and clinical and peer
reviewed studies conducted by leading universities and experts indicating the risk factors of MRNA
technology and the implications of circulating spike proteins on major organs such as the brain,
heart, liver and ovaries is concerning but again the evidence is ignored. Recent studies have also
indicated the presence of mammal DNA in the vaccines of which the origin is unknown and even
scarier the implications are unknown and again, it is denied and ignored.

Reference for easily digestible discussion around studies acknowledging the above risks can be found
here.

https://www.youtube.eom/@Campbellteaching/videos

https://covidl9criticalcare.com/dna-contamination-in-covid-19-vaccines/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JlUzetqiWG4

Senator Malcom Roberts, Senator Alex Antic, Senator Babet and Senator Rennick being the some of
the few people in parliament willing to understand the information provided by Pfizer, the
Government, Health officials and the evolving studies being released, they are constantly faced with
denial, ran in circles or being put on notice which does not fill me with confidence about the safety
and legitimacy of anything to do with the vaccines or COVID-19 pandemic.

When speaking to people about the vaccine there is always someone who had experienced adverse
reactions or knows someone who has been vax injured. I, myself experienced severe brain fog for
two months after receiving the vaccines which ended with a migraine. My mother had uterine
bleeding for a month, a friend of mine presented to ED with heart abnormalities, a friend of a friend
had a uterine hemorrhage and a friend of a friend has a permanent heart condition.

The effectiveness of existing drugs to treat COVID-19 was aggressively silenced even given the
substantial evidence of successful treatment.

https://covidl9criticalcare.com/studies/

https://covidl9criticalcare.com/protocol-categories/treatment/
International Influence with Australian Pandemic responses;

The influence of the W.H.O was detrimental to the successful management of the COVID-19
pandemic. The responses were wrong at every step of the way which resulted in excess deaths which
the occurrence of can be confirmed on the ABS website. With proposed changes to the IHR the
W.H.O would change from an advisory organization to mandatory authority which given the response
to COVID-19, is completely unacceptable, negligent, and un-democratic. The proposed changes to
the IHR also include disregarding the clause referring to dignity, human rights and freedoms. To
engage with an organization that's involved in the welfare of people but does not value dignity,
human rights and freedoms is criminal.

To not take this inquiry seriously will solidify the mistrust that is already brewing and lingering in the
community, to not take this inquiry seriously will question the legitimacy of the Government's
authority to make decisions for the good of the country, to not be truthful and to not be
knowledgeable and willing to acknowledge that the wrongful decisions made during COVID,
including the vaccine recommendations, will damage any attempt at significant change because we
simply no longer trust in our Government.
