We need a thorough Enquiry because....
  1.   I was sacked from my job as a secondary teacher in a school at a time when there had been NO
       outbreaks in our school up until my dismissal in Dec 2021 despite there being Covid in the
       community for almost two years. There was still so much scepticism about natural immunity. When
       I provided the solution to my employer that I would take a RAT test every day at my own expense
       early in the morning at school well before classes would commence, I was told that the Education
       Dept disallowed it. I assured them at the time, in writing, that my health would be more assured
       this way than any of their jabbed employees who would have no guarantee of being Covid-clear,
       especially if they undertook no regular testing. I was not presented with any health and safety
       document to quantify the threat that others would be to me or I would be to others. When I rang
       the Fair Work Commission in January, they said I didn't have a leg to stand on. This needs
       investigating.


  2.   The premier at the time, Dan Andrews, kept saying that he was following the best medical advice
       and yet he wouldn't reveal his sources. At the same time in the world, there were medical
       professionals who were having great success with Covid patients without any need of the
       experimental jabs. Who was censoring the scientific debate? This needs investigating.


  3.   The govt insisted on us wearing masks yet NO study anywhere in the world at the time or since has
       ever provided conclusive evidence that mask-wearing stopped the microscopic particles of the virus.
       In fact, evidence was emerging that mask-wearing cut down oxygen, harboured germs and
       hampered the health of those who were regular users. This needs investigating.


  4. Ivermectin worked in Utter Pradesh in India early in the pandemic to reduce the spread of Covid yet
       it was denied here in Australia. The media slammed it as a 'horse dewormer' yet no proper
       investigation continued here. Why should an 'emergency use authorization' over-ride everything
       else, even effective remedies? This needs investigation.


  5.   The TGA who approved the mRNA solution did NOT do any separate testing of the mRNA solutions
       offered by^^^^^^^^^^^They just trusted that companies rife with histories of corruption
       would have our best interests at heart. What else stopped them investigating when more and more
       safety signals began immerging after the vax program got under way? And what criteria were they
       using to dismiss the claims that the jabs caused the death of a thousand Australian citizens as
       indicated on the DAEN? This needs serious investigation.


  6.   The government and the mainstream media at the time were saying that the hospitals were full of
       Covid patients. They were also promulgating the lie that most of them were unvaccinated. This was
       a blatant misrepresentation of the truth. Many nurse whistleblowers were testifying to the fact that
       many wards were not full and, later on, that many patients had Covid or were jabbed but it had
       little to do with their major reason for being in hospital. This needs investigating!


  7.   The government propaganda kept telling us to get tested and stay inside and lay low if infected yet
       there was NO advice given as to how to help build people's immune systems with even the basics of
       good nutrition, sunshine, regular fresh air and vitamin supplements. When there were perfectly
       good solutions offered by the likes of                                            government and
      the media were ignoring them or telling us that these highly qualified and experienced people were
      spreading misinformation. This needs investigation!


8.    They kept telling us they were relying on the 'SCIENCE' as if their own selection of scientists were
      the authority. The science was already evident in 2021 that the shots were faulty. In 2022, there
      were massive safety signals, more than any other vaccine in history and here we are at the end of
      2023, with the release of NZ health stats, Philippine stats and access to dozens of studies showing
      that the shots do none of the things that they originally promised : they do NOT prevent infection,
      transmission, hospitalization or death from Covid. On the contrary, with every jab, there is more risk
      of cardiac and neurological issues and sudden death. This needs investigating.


9.       I have eyewitness testimonies of friends and family members who did not suffer with Covid but
      suffered incredibly from the mRNA inoculations. M               had a stroke within a few weeks of her
      first jab and died two months later. The          of                had massive heart strain the day
      after the jab and was diagnosed with pericarditis. He can no longer be active. A
                                         suffered the same fate - they can no longer pursue their sporting
      careers.                             suffered neuralgia and Bell's Palsy after the first jab and was still
      told to take the second which only made things worse. She was rushed to hospital one night after a
      'mini-stroke.'


10. They told us to consult our doctors if we had questions or an issue with the jabs. The only real
      option doctors were given under pressure from APHRA was to give you a choice of which brand you
      took!



11.                                                                                                    asked to
      be exempt when they mandated the jab. Like many institutions                  Uni refused. She has
      deferred her studies and now faces the loss of her credits since hospitals here in Victoria still refuse
      to allow students to do vital placements in their wards. She is willing to take any test they'll throw at
      her on a daily basis to prove she is Covid-free but the system will not bend. Where is the logic in
      allowing jabbed nurses to wander the wards of our hospitals when we know they could be carrying
      Covid? In fact, many of them have been stricken with the virus multiple times, despite being jabbed!
      And what of all the doctors, nurses and paramedics who were sacked and are still denied the right
      to return to their posts when we see supposedly desperate for good experienced workers? It's
      ridiculous and demands a deep-dive investigation.


12. I had to search independent media channels, away from mainstream media, to access the reliable
      information (both back in October 2021 and even now) that could easily sink the 'safe and effective'
      mantra. What was stopping our government and all their professional advisors from accessing this
      information, dialoguing with reputable front-line workers and making decisions to scrap the deadly
      mRNA experiment in its tracks? This needs investigating.


13. Australia has suffered with a massive excess mortality rate since the roll-out of the mRNA jabs.
      When will the Australian health authorities come clean and stop blaming everything else but the
    obvious?
14. Just this week,^^^^^^M a whistleblower with NZ health has just revealed some statistics that
      demonstrate the utter disaster the experimental mRNA jabs have been on the population.
Let the investigation begin!
Bruce Langford B.A. Dip. Ed. (14/12/23)
