My name is Karen Austin, my life & family had been under great duress with the directions of
Emergency Management Act 2005 (WA).
Why would you abandon existing pandemic plans that were already in place and take advice
from an un-elected W.H.O agency, this makes no sense.
Their directives were not medically sound with a one size fits all approach to a medical
procedure with experimental mRNAgene altering therapy with entire list of contents of the
vaccine not provided. Informed consent must be given in compliance with the Nuremberg
Code.
My husband was under great duress from his employer to have the experimental vaccine so
he could continue providing an income for his family, he has subsequently has had a major
heart attack since taking the vaccine having to receive the clot busting drug & an operation,
clotting & heart issues are a known adverse effect related to the [SARS-COVID-2](COVID-
19) poison vaccine as stated from the PUBLIC HEALTH ACT 2016 (WA) INSTRUMENT OF
AUTHORISATION TO SUPPLY OR ADMINISTER A POISON [SARS-COVID-2](COVID-19)
(No.3) 2021, Dated 15/7/2021 Dr Andrew Robertson CHIEF HEALTH OFFICER
Clearly the W.H.O’s directives have not worked as it has been four years. It is evident that
using Emergency powers gives Governments around the world power to remove human
rights & enforce draconian laws against their citizens under the guise of Health & Safety.
The language coming from Government officials was disgusting at best, with hate speech
directed towards individuals who choose not to consent to a medical procedure were
demonised.
 https://en.unesco.org/about-us/legal-affairs/universal-declaration-bioethics-and-human-
rights
Article 6
People who had adverse reactions received an even worse treatment from medical
practitioners, with the excess death rate here in Australia at historical highs is of great
concern although the Government is not interested in looking at the cause as to why so
many people are dying. Surprise, surprise.
It seems that more pandemics are planned for the future to destabilise populations with ever
increasing emergency powers of control not for the benefit of anyone’s health and safety
going by the past W.H.O’s directives.
We need to go back to the pre-existing pandemic preparedness going forward into the
future.
