Not Private and Confidential, With Prejudice                                                        15 December 2023

Australian Federal Government COVID Enquiry

To the COVID Enquiry Select Panel and whom it may concern,

By electronic submission and post

Please find attached response to the COVID Enquiry (undated on submission page), and publicly 7 days prior to 15
December 2023. This response has been compiled on behalf of the peoples of Australia, New Zealand and the World. A
copy of this submission will also be provided to Sachs et al under the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals,
the Ministry of Barbados, and all other indigenous and traditional peoples nations.

As the panel members chosen by the Australian Government, you are all now the PCBUs in the COVID Enquiry and under
legislative instruments such as but not limited to Workplace Health and Safety Acts, Regulations and Codes of Practice,
you are on notice that you will be held accountable for all materials and representations made from this enquiry. You
must act in the best interests of all stakeholders with a focus on consumers under Australian Consumer Law. Any liability
will not be waivered and under recent WHS Acts and Regulations amendments, charges of manslaughter, incarceration
and/or other remedies as prescribed under the jurisdiction of the Workplace Ombudsman with apply to all and sundry.

The COVID Enquiry was released on XX September 2023 with a close date of 15 December 2023. You must conduct a
public survey, with public advertising to assess the population's knowledge of this activity. The public survey must be
transparent and attract at least 80% of people registered with the AEC and state Electoral Commissions, and all data
must be presented through the ABS for evaluation and reporting within a 3 month period. It may be that this enquiry
must be extended for a period of 18 months. During this timeframe, there are many changes which must be
implemented to above further prosecutions as mentioned in the introductory paragraph.

It must be publicly noted and advised that there has been changes in the descriptions of all pharmaceutical
interventions and materials. The initial PCR equipment manual must be made publicly known, alongside all RAT
information with online training modules for use to be updated properly with patient insert and consumer marketing
information and communication for impaired. Bl.1.37 from the initial PCR gene database from South Africa was
statistically insignificant (approximately 13,000 entries) benefiting the Rockefeller University and Foundation. This has
now extrapolated to Omicron variants and many other issues. The North Carolina University and MDI Laboratory
partnership have produced the Chemical Toxigenomics Database, where there is 180 known diseases from current
vaccination treatments. People must also be advised of MESH information and the differences between the flu and
coronaviruses for example.

1. Broader Health and Social Supports
    1.1. World Health Organisation's 2023 Gujarat Agreement on TCIM (Traditional Complimentary Integrated Medicine)
          to be implemented and all TCIM Allied Health Practitioners given payment and stock systems, listed under PBS
    1.2.       All GMO products and manufacturing to immediately cease, until further investigation
    1.3. All GMO and other novel man-made products to undergo testing by experienced laboratory WHSE scientists,
          and cease work until full disclosure reports are produced and assessed.
    1.4.       All funding of the above to be allocated appropriately.
    1.5. All products listed under Poisons Schedule to be removed from PBS. Can be made available through private
          health insurance only.
    1.6. All funding and NFP fund raising, DGR status must be redirected to TCIM and any TCIM provider / NFP must be
          given priority to be accredited within 21 days. Government staffing to be reallocated for this purpose.
    1.7. All United Nations Declarations for people must be implemented inclusive of SDGs, SDG Academy Training
          (excluding any SDG13 modules).
    1.8. All SDG3 and SDGS targets must be implemented and updated, with data provided as open source, and no
          further determinations or legislative changes made until this process has occurred. Any data prior to or during
          the pandemic must be updated immediately. Resources must be allocated to effect this activity within a 6
          month timeframe.
2. Community Supports
    2.1.       All TCIM funding and grants, including hospice and NDIS must go through the following entities:
         2.1.1.           Lionheart Foundation
         2.1.2.           Hoody's Heroes Australia wide
         2.1.3.           Seven Sisters Sunshine Coast, Tanya de Jong's Mind Health Australia
                                                          Page 1 of 3
        2.1.4.            Forest of the Fallen and COVID Injuries Australia
        2.1.5. Alternative media and creative industries, and other MSMEs to be allocated immediate accreditation,
               funding, WHSE and business strategy training as recompense.
        2.1.6.            Others as determined by the above.
        2.1.7. Mass marketing campaign must reach 80% of population advising of the Gujarat Agreement, the initial
               2009 and 2014 United Nations proclamations, and the 2014-2023 TCIM Strategy. No further Strategy must
               be implemented prior to an 18 month period. Any person who has received, given or directed mandates of
               GMO therapies must not be involved in any TCIM Strategy, neither can any other activities, materials or
               representations interfere with TCIM Activity.
        2.1.8. All individuals must publicly be made aware of any TCIM trials being held, the amount of recompense for
               being involved in such studies.
        2.1.9. Any retailer wishing to establish a Farmacy or Alchemist alongside a Pharmacy or Chemist must be
               provided with a minimum 12 year lease with option to purchase, and must be provided funding to
               commence a business within 30 days of presentation of business plan.
        2.1.10. All public campaigns must be directed through Optus and its agency (also employed by federal
                   government). Both Optus and Agency must undertake WHSE and ISO2600 (and other relevant ISO
                   training) prior to commencement of roles. All fierce pharama marketing and initiatives must be
                   exclusive from telecommunications industry. All people must be made aware of 8G developments and
                   wellbeing complications.
        2.1.11. All legislation must be have a 6 month sunset clause, in force by 1 July 2023 which does not permit any
                   marketing or advertising of materials or representations made under the Poisons Act.
3. Financial Supports for Individuals
    3.1. All individuals must be provided upfront funding for all health rectifications. All individuals must be provided
         preferred choice for medical interventions, and must be given a minimum of 3 quotes.
    3.2. All individuals must be provided agreement or records of documentation, including completed unredacted
         medical records, product information including date administered, date manufactured, use by date, batch
         number - free of charge and within 20 business days both hard copy and electronically delivered by registered
         email and post.
    3.3. All individuals can immediately access superannuation to a requested amount to enable assistance with record
         keeping, gaining up to date records, and decision making on an ongoing basis. All receipts will be reimbursed
         upon presentation to Services Australia.
    3.4. All individuals must be provided extended limitations on making an application for damages and recompense
         further to the existing 3 and 7 years if requested, and if a reasonable application is made.
    3.5. All individuals, companies and government entities who were deemed essential, must donate a minimum of
         10% of annual earnings towards TCIM NFPs.
    3.6. All family members of those who have died must be provided immediate relief for funeral and other related
         costs expenses. Funeral organisations must be provided resources to cater for the increased death. All other
         matters associated with correlated and causally proven COVID therapies must
4. Governance, Roles and Responsibilities
    4.1. No anglo-saxon (US, UK, Canada, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand / Japan / EU (western) medicine experts are to
         be involved in TCIM as they are inadequately qualified. The TGA, FDA, CDC, CSIRO, Major Medical Universities,
         media aligned entities such as The Conversation, Wikipedia, Online Medical publications must revoke all
         publications and articles with false, misinformation and disinformation.
    4.2. The TGA must issue revised safety notices on all products, materials and to be made available for access and
         download without user disclosure required. The TGA must redact Tumeric warning issued August 2023 and
         provide a written explanation on the representations and communications which effected this warning.
    4.3. All persons, PCBUs will be subject to manslaughter under WHS legislation. Victoria must immediately
         harmonise.
    4.4. All bottle shops must be taxed at 60% and supplies limited to 6 x 250ml items per week to reduce mental
         health, increasing psychosis across all of society.
    4.5. Jacinta Price to be provided Cabinet and Federal Minister position for TCIM and Indigenous Affairs. This is a
         position which will not change with any election and will be separate to any political party, unions or lobbyists,
         protected under WHSE and other necessary local, state, federal or international laws.
    4.6. All GPs are to cease psychologically assessments of patients in person or through telehealth as they are not
         tertiary qualified to do so. All allied health professionals who have undergone vaccination training, including
         Speech Pathologists and Podiatrists, must not be approved for any further administration of such medical
         interventions.
5. International Policies Australians at home and abroad
                                                         Page 2 of 3
    5.1. All government and connected industry expats must provide travel schedules, P&L, Balance Sheet for last 7
          years. All elected politicians and government representatives across the world, must provide list of legislated
          votes, with representations, recommendations or research that influenced the vote. They must devise a mailout
          to all in their electorate within a 3-6 month timeframe of request being made. All requests from electorate
          citizens must be replied to electronically and hard copy in mail within 30 business day.
6. Key health response measures
    6.1.        As per the Office of Gene Technology's 2 page WHS guidelines in 2021-2022 Annual Report
    6.2.        As per WHSE implemented                                - February to April 2023, and OLD Education recent
          schools publication.
    6.3. All Al, ChatGTP, Wikipedia must be updated with misinformation and disinformation to be removed, and to
          reduce hate speech. All references to Anti-vaxer must be removed as the Associated Press guidelines.
    6.4. All United Nations persons must be transparent with any communications, provided live streams and other
          records for public access.
7. Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
    7.1.        All government intervention should immediately cease and reliance on Chief Health Officers et al must cease.
    7.2. Any scientific peer reviewed publications must meet statutory guidelines for publication being a minimum of 6
          to 2 years prior to publication, and no further open-source publications can have any industry funding to avoid
          all conflicts of interest. Any publication or article which has a conflict of interest must state clearly in ghost mark
          across each page, that it is an industry paid research.
    7.3. The World Health Association's approximate 212 policies, guidelines, statements and agreements must be
          made publicly known and available - which includes representations for medications, war and other activities.
          All representations and materials from the Nuremburg Trials must be reinstated and replace the WHAs
          materials. All opt-out provisions must immediately cease as they have distorted the data and the number of
          citizens who did not engage in pandemic response trial. Any citizen who has been provided with vaccinated
          certificates, must be provided notice and be given remedy to rectify their own personal health records, with all
          information provided to them unredacted and remedies made within 30-60 business working day.s
    7.4. All medical associations, local, state, national and international must update all policies on an annual basis and
          provide a press release and marketing campaign to advise all potential consumers of policies and agreement
          making for any treatment provided.
    7.5. All TCIM interventions must be made available through public health funding, research done through Western
          Sydney University or RMIT. Any other interventions must only be available through private health funding.
    7.6. All public hospitals must provide choice of foods and nutrition to each patient under TCIM accredited specialists
          and not only limited to dieticians.
8. Support for industry and businesses
    8.1. All industry and businesses must be aligned with SDGs, except SDG13 which must change to Life Up Above
          (pollution), and SDG11 must be amended to included Cities and Rural Communities with even distribution of
          funding for TCIM services and products.
    8.2. All industry and businesses, government, must conform to ISO26000 and other ISO. CRD is WHSE for next 3
          years. All IBG who implemented mandates must pay higher tax, others must receive pay rises, with any debt
          abolished. Any ISO made with other parties eg. WEG and SDG11 must be redacted worldwide.
    8.3.        More information will be made available in due course.
9. Other
    9.1.        Parents, Families and Offspring
         9.1.1. Must receive informed consent, patient insert, consumer marketing information, chemical/chemical
                interactions in quote for treatment, with cost, timeframe and expected outcome
         9.1.2. No parent is to be assessed and have their child removed from their custody due to conflict of treatment
                choice.
         9.1.3. Any parent or family household requiring 4 day work week, parental leave or other leave must be provided
                with funding to meet current or previous wage through Social Services Australia.
    9.2.        Developing and Least Developed Countries
         9.2.1. All funding and distribution of any materials listed on Poisons Schedule must immediately cease.
         9.2.2. The Australian and New Zealand alliance must put pressure on the United Nations and WHO to protect all
                first people's, give them their voice back and protect all traditions (3 generations), to remove any
                agreements made between the WEF or the WHA. There are more private public partnerships which should
                also be dissolved immediately.
Yours sincerely,
People's of Australia and New Zealand

                                                           Page 3 of 3
