Covid-19 submission

 Below are some of my concerns about the Coronavirus pandemic and its handling. Thank you
for your consideration of these issues.



Within a couple of weeks after infections began in Australia, it became apparent that it was
the elderly and the very sick who were at risk from the virus. Why was the whole of society
controlled and abused the way it was, instead of providing extra protections and/or
precautions for those at risk?

Secondly, why were Australians only told on one occasion that the vaccine was
experimental? Greg Hunt said that the vaccine was the largest experiment the world had
ever seen. Why were we not told this repeatedly? Why was the vaccine promoted as safe
and effective? Why was informed consent not mandatory?
There were hours of fear given daily, for months, why not some relevant facts?

When will we be presented with safety and efficacy data from the LONG-TERM studies?
Who is performing these studies and when will they be available to the public?

The median age of death from Covid-ig was reported as 86 years of age at one stage. Why
was this not repeatedly made public, along with the pre-Covid median age of death in
Australia being 83 years, so that the seriousness of the outbreak could be rationally
assessed?

Why were treatments banned in the early stages of illness? This is contrary to alln
                       M.. and I strongly suspect, your experience likewise...

Why was Ivermectin allowed to be misrepresented as only a horse de-wormer when it is
also used for humans? Why was it then banned for use with Covid-19 when it is one of the
most useful and low cost drugs available for parasite infections?

Why did people not have freedom to choose to use this relatively safe drug that had shown
promise in many studies? Why were doctors not allowed to make their own judgement on
the use of Ivermectin? The FDA has approved it for Covid-19 use in a triaI - just like the
vaccine - yet one is banned and the other is mandated...

The WHO regards Ivermectin highly - it has done wonders in Africans.
For your reference: https://c19ivm.org/meta.html
https://www.drugs.com/medica l-answers/ivermectin-treat-covid-i9-coronavirus-^s?S9i2/
