To whom it may concern,

My name is                 I am a school teacher who personally lost my job and
apartment due to the mandates. I was forbidden to enter my worksite of ^^^^|who
was fired without an appropriate farewell for my years of service. I was forced to sell my
apartment due to losing my job. As a result of this, the Commonwealth Government
made a lot money from capital gains tax, which was unavoidable in my position. There
were many others who were forced to do the same thing and it would appear as one of
the reasons why the Federal government were behind premiers forcing mandates. They
made a lots of money and created severe hardship.

I was banned from entering the aged care home where my^^| resided, and had to sit
outside her window to visit get. I was banned from leaving the country to visit
and unable to fly to a close family funeral, or spend Christmas with my family. I was also
excluded from entering facilities that my rates paid for such as the local library and
swimming pool. I had close friends and family exclude me and was abused for standing
up for my right to chose what goes into my body. I saw friends denied health care due to
living on the wrong side of a border.

I question why the government secretly acquired vaccines and had contracts well in
advance of the pandemic. Why the need to bankrupt Australians, putting us billions of
dollars into debt, purchasing 10 ineffective shots per person. Not only was this costly,
but most were out of date after the initial push to vaccinate Australians. They were still
given as booster shots, how is this safe? It is well known that politicians made monetary
gain from enforcing the shots, an example beingnd the
faulty PCR tests. The Government are unable to produce documents showing the
isolation of the virus. How is it possible to produce an effective vaccine if you do not
know it's composition?

The Commonwealth government failed to protect Australians' human rights which
clearly state that no experimental drugs can be forced on people. Scott Morrison met
with the premiers and enabled them to remove people's jobs and rights if they dared to
protect themselves from this dangerous experimental shot. Many of my friends were
coerced into taking it, and now have suffered from serious side effects such as^^H
                                                                       and

The commonwealth government and APRA was sent the initial trial data from the
vaccines which showed serious risks and death rates. How was this ineffective and
dangerous drug approved? Any new drug takes many years of trials to ensure they are
safe, yet this vaccine was forced upon us with a very short trial. AHPRA is an
independent body from the government, yet the Commonwealth allowed this agency to
threaten and force medical professionals to recommend the vaccine without giving the
full risks and side effects. If they spoke out, medical professionals were discredited and
prevented from practicing. Doctors sign an oath to go no harm, yet they gave effectively
been tricked into inflicting great harm. Hospitals were told to record deaths as from
COVID, such as car accidents, to inflate numbers. Why wasn't the truth told? Was this a
tactic to create fear in Australians? My ^^^^^flwas in                              for
about^^^^^^at the end of 2021. his^^saw new vaccine injured patients come in
every day, but no-one with COVID.

The result of banning the unvaccinated from working has meant preventable shortages
of medical staff and aged care staff, who are unable to return to their jobs, even though
it has been proven that the vaccine is ineffective at stopping transmission or to block
transmission.

The government bombarded the media with disinformation about the vaccine
effectiveness, or alternative treatment such as invermectin. At the same time any
scientific evidence against the government line was censored or suppressed and the
authors victimised. Data from hospitals were altered such as listing any death as a
COVID death, eg car accident, using the fault PCR tests to scare the public into thinking
COVID was killing many thousands when in effect, it was no more severe for most of the
public than the common cold.

Why were the vaccine injured denied the ability to file against the vaccine companies
and their numbers suppressed from the public. Their battle for recognition and help is
shameful. AHPRA knew about the side effects yet prevented the public from making an
informed choice and now prevents the same people they injured from receiving help.

Why did the government decide to oppose the 2019 Australian Health Management
Plan for pandemic influenza, which prophetically described why all of the actions the
government took would not work and would cause hardship?

Why were mask mandates enforced when it is well known that masks do not prevent
particles the size of viruses from passing through. The only benefit was to the
companies producing and selling them. Animals were harmed by their litter, children's
speech developed delayed by not seeing the faces of adults, and other health problems
arose from breathing in stale, oxygen deficient air.

It is evident from the policies put in place created great hardship, destroyed the
economy, made a certain few very rich and put many lives at risk. Dialogue is essential
to make sure that the best policies are put in place. So my first recommendation is to
remove government censorship so that all experts are able to speak and present
evidence. This did not happen. Forcing vaccinations is against human rights, those who
breached this human right, APHRA, premiers, the prime minister, health ministers
should be held accountable.

Outside entities such as the UN and the WHO should not have overreach into Australian
affairs. Decisions should be made by looking at facts and not creating greater harm than
the flu itself. We did not vote for them and do not want to be ruled by them.

I demand a full royal commission into the way the government handled the pandemic.
Repatriation should be made to those affected by poor governance. I would recommend
those responsible pay repatriation, as they gained financially from their decisions, rather
than the tax payer having to correct it.

Regards
