Relevance to the inquiry
Broader health and social supports
Exclusion from public and business venues
I am a regular patron of our local library and small businesses. I was excluded from fixing my grandson’s
bicycle, shopping in a newsagent, getting a haircut all because I did not wear a mask and did not agree not
agree to showing my Covid vaccination status.
I was not ill and did not need a flawed CPR Test to tell me I was healthy. Furthermore, no management had
no right to ask for my medical status. People with HIV do not have to declare their medial information why
should I have to. This was and still is a blatant form of discrimination and illegal with the government
getting businesses to do the coercing for them. Library staff and businesses had no grounds for refusing me
entry except that they followed an arbitrary government rule without any critical thinking or questioning. To
this day I refuse to support those businesses which discriminated against me and ostracised me as if I were a
leper. As an adult, I have been taking care of my health for decades without government intervention and
don’t need to be micromanaged by a nanny state.

Governance, including roles and responsibilities
I had to cancel a trip with my grandson and son to see my ill father who lived interstate because house arrest
(aka lockdown) began on the day we were supposed to travel. It
the money.
I curtailed all other travel because it was too emotionally draining to deal with draconian rules and robotic
law enforcement agents/general public dobbing on neighbours.
I was appalIccHhamh^loctor patient relationship was destroyed and that doctors were simply following
orders like in               There was no advice on early treatment/interventions and people were told to
stay home until they were sick enough to get to a hospital.
I was forbidden from going to church.
I was unable to access and support the small businesses in our area because the government and big business
had effectively trampled on them.
I lost^^Hof my income and survived with the job saver handout. My business has not yet recovered
because the cost of living crisis (brought on by the government’s mishandling of the COVID response) and
has just about destroyed my client base. From a thriving business^^^^^^^^^^^^^ I have been
reduced to working ^^^|a week.
At one stage it seemed as if the virus could jump through computer screens when health professionals
delivering telehealth services were required to be vaccinated and wear masks. We were expected to accept
these absurd decrees without question.
My younger clients suffered from devastating consequences as a result of school closures. Those with the
severest of difficulties suffered the most and it will take years for them to catch up. Deficits in speech and
language acquisition (wearing of masks, lack of oxygen to the brain), gross and fine motor skills (lack of
exercise and practice due to closure of playgrounds and playgroups) and social and emotional development
deficits (forming friendships and reading emotions) have created a generation of children with special needs
placing even more pressure on an education system that is already failing them miserably. A longitudinal
study in the USA confirmed a 23% -30% increase in deficits in these aforementioned areas. The numbers are
likely to be similar here.
Adults already struggling with mental health issues became worse (more anxious and depressed) and
teenagers lost hope and many adults and teenagers became suicidal. The isolation of house arrest led to an
increase in domestic violence and marriage breakdowns. The human toll of these draconian and inhumane
measures will be felt for generations to come.
My experience reflects the following;
The power grab and overreach of government treating its citizens as children or simpletons incapable of
thinking for themselves. Health is the responsibility of an individual and governments have no place in
micromanaging every aspect of our lives and certainly has no place in interfering with the doctor-patient
relationship.
Governance should be flexible, democratic and able to respond to changing situations especially when there
are differing opinions on important matters. Silencing dissent from the government narrative and following
so called national and international experts who have been shown/known to get most things wrong, most of
the time (Dr       of the NIH in the USA,                 of the Imperial College in London,
^^^^^|of the CDC), is extremely dangerous for Australians.
Free speech and differing opinions are the hallmarks of a healthy democracy. Sadly, Australia can no longer
be called a free democracy or a sovereign nation. Its politicians, academics, bureaucrats, medical
professionals, police force (note the change from police service), judiciary and main stream media are only
too happy to kowtow to the whims of its international handlers, psychopathic billionaires, technocrats and
                                                                                                   crush the
liberties of ordinary hard-working Australians.
It was clear after the two months of the Covid pandemic that the emergency measures were unnecessary and
a total exaggeration of its severity. However, the government in sheer contempt of prevailing opinion,
doubled down on the fear narrative of its foreign counterparts and bowed to its international masters.
If Australia is to reclaim its sovereign nation status (clearly lost during the pandemic) it needs strong
leadership and to carefully examine the dictates of a foreign organisation in context of the particular needs
of its people, rather than meekly submitting to multinational interests.
We now know that the government paid the media to censor and destroy dissenting voices in order to push
their vaccine agenda. This is not journalism nor is it a free press; rather it is a propaganda machine spewing
forth the marketing mantra “safe and effective” (which remains a total lie, with no basis in science) while
whipping up a frenzy of fear. Given the diversity of opinion among sovereign nations, the lock-step
approach around the world smacked of a coordinated, organised plan of attack on humanity, like Event 201
just a month before the start of Covid.
COVID brought out the best and the worst in the Australian people. Power hungry petty fat cat bureaucrats
with little or no medical training would get on their daily puppet platforms to tell us what to think and what
we could or could not do. Dividing the community with double speak slogans (see George Orwell’s 1984)
such as “staying apart keeps us together” and encouraging us to “dob” on each other (which used to be
considered a most undesirable Australian trait) and to stop physical contact or touching inanimate objects
such as a football or cash are classic examples of the divide and conquer strategy to enforce compliance. Sex
advice for couples was even dispensed in the regular 11am pantomimes.
Major medical organisations governing doctors and drugs etc. (Ahpra, TGA, ATAGI, AMA) need to answer
for their role in censoring doctors who were questioning the narrative. How can we trust the TGA to have
our best interests at heart when it gets 96% of its funding from drug companies over which they are
supposed to regulate? Such a conflict of interest should never be allowed to get in the way of the truth again.
Key health response measures
I experienced all of these issues in some way during the last four years of the Covid response.
Doctor/patient relationships: My trust in doctors has been shattered forever. No longer can a doctor give a
rational appraisal of any condition or recommend what is best for a patient if he/she is afraid of going
against the prevailing dictates.
My body my choice: We were not given much of a choice when Greg Hunt proudly announced that
Australians were participating in                                                       And to add insult to
injury we were told that when we experienced the crippling social, legal, mental and financial costs, of
saying ‘no’ we were not mandated or coerced into taking the experimental gene therapy injections which
were never tested for efficacy in stopping transmission or infection in the first place. Yet we were told to
take one for the team! Despite the 17 million deaths worldwide due to these injections, the government is
continuing to sell the lie.
Early treatment: Any discussion about early treatments, and attempts to provide or procure such were shut
down. Nobody can hold a seriously moral view that includes such a scenario. How can this not be a red flag
that there is a serious problem with the Covid management?
Risk Benefit: The fact that every person was encouraged, mandated, to receive the jab, regardless of age,
fitness, health assessment, moral, religious or legal view, is another evidence of the madness of this Covid
response. Anyone would think that we were cattle.
“One size does not fit all” Human beings vary in size, weight, biochemistry, genetic predispositions and
allergic response. Therefore the sheer recklessness of administering the same dose to children, the elderly
with comorbidities males and females is nothing short of criminal. Furthermore, the small list of reasons an
exemption was allowed is laughable.
Informed Consent: The Australian Immunisation Register states that informed consent is necessary before
the administration of any vaccine and that a vaccine can only be administered without coercion or
manipulation. Needing to get the jab in order to keep your job is the most severe form of coercion and a total
violation of bodily autonomy. To this day we do not know exactly what is in the jab. How then could anyone
have given informed consent at any time during the rollout? How could anyone have given informed
consent when there was no discussion of the product being administered, no time to read the product insert,
or the doctor giving the jab is afraid to say anything negative about the jab, or the staff are not trained to
administer the jab according to the Australian Immunisation Handbook, especially in regard to ‘aspiration’?
Drug testing and approval: “Safe and effective” was peddled as a marketing mantra and is the biggest
deliberate lie told to us in generations.
                                                      Why was the injection ever authorised for use in
humans? not abandoned? Which Australian official is responsible for this democide? He/she must bear the
responsibility for the carnage Australians have suffered as a result of this decision. This situation must never
ever be allowed to happen again.

Support for industry and businesses
What was the rational for the ‘big box stores’ (Woolworths, Coles, Liquorland, Aldi, Bunnings) to remain
open while small business were decimated? Was it a transfer of wealth to the big end of town?
One cannot but help thinking that there was some other nefarious reason behind this blanket decision that
did not have any rhyme or reason.
The choice of committee members                                                            hand-picked to
deliver its findings will no doubt be anything but independent and simply reiterate the government narrative,
which has itself been full of misinformation, if not outright lies.
