Title:
Name: ■                - resident of
Mobile: I
Postcode:

How to use my information:
   •       Anonymous
   •       Individual

Inquiry's Terms of Reference:
    •   Governance, including roles and responsibilities with States & Territories/National Cabinet
        Health Bureaucrats
    •       International policies - Current'engagement'with WHO and Proposed Pandemic Treaty
    •       Key health response measure
    •       Support for industry & businesses - farmers and food producers

SUBMISSION TO COVID INQUIRY

I am a | year old Australian citizen and have lived in this country my entire life.

Propaganda, mis-information, 'alarmism', 'fear-mongering' by government and media at outbreak
of Covid - early 2020
From the very outset (December 2019 - March 2020), I was alarmed with the 'propaganda', fear­
mongering and incessant news reports 24/7, surrounding the purported Covid 'pandemic'. We know
now, that, having people on 'high alert' was a 'tactic' designed by 'those in government', the health
bureaucrats and the mainstream media (MSM) to justify the implementation of 'mandates' and
'restrictions' on the whole of our population. Our compliance with lockdowns, quarantines, border
closures (inside and outside the country), curfews, mask wearing, social distancing were deemed
necessary to try and 'halt the spread' of this potentially 'deadly' virus around the world - the only
way to try and 'flatten the curve' against transmission of the virus and accompanying deaths.

Concurrently, I was most seriously alarmed, when a person of dubious medical and moral credibility
(none at all) by the name of^^^^^^ (capitalising on the generated 'fear') then 'announced',
[under-pinning the 'directives' of the WHO, Big Tech and BigPharm] 'that EVERYBODY needed to stay
'locked down' until EVERYBODY was 'vaxxed'l My immediate reaction was - 'Oh yeah? And what's
in it for you?' Knowing that ^^^^Hhad 'vested interest' in MOST of the major Pharmaceutical
companies. This announcement implied that there was a vaxx that could be 'rolled-out' for
'emergency use', even though 'medical professionals' from the 'get go' were concerned that
exhaustive 'trials' had not been conducted on this 'new 'artificial' technology', questioning its safety
and efficacy.

A de-population initiative.
From further 'research' that I had already done, I was also aware, that 3 generations
                            were fixated with a 'de-population' agenda (eugenics) - the argument
being that too many people are now living on the planet to support and feed - which (continual,
monotonous argument) has led conveniently, over several decades, to justifying the 'climate and
greenhouse (net zero) emissions narrative' - 'adopted' by 'compliant governments (also a 'scam.)
They (the^^^j have subtly pushed the 'objective' of eugenics for decades (depopulation).
^^^^^^Hworked and invested in the establishment and promotion of                              first
'birth control clinic' in Brooklyn in 1916, from which Planned Parenthood evolved. Planned
Parenthood is now the largest abortion provider in the world.However, at the
beginning -                       targeted              in the US (though wanting birth control for all
women).              still interferes with the health and 'well-being' of children in African countries
and also poor communities in India.
Fact: It is estimated that 73.3 million unborn babies are 'terminated' every year, world-wide. In my
view, that is de-population.
Note:                           - opened March 1980 (now recently destroyed) opined that SOOmillion
people was considered the 'right balance' between population and nature.

Influence on Federal Government and adopted 'independently' by the States - National Cabinet.
The Doherty Institute - which enjoyed funding by                  was the 'model' that the Federal
government adopted at the outset of the 'pandemic' The Institute 'feared' that as many as 150,000
people could die from 'covid' in this country and so the Government - Morrison, Greg Hunt,
Professor                     all pushed ahead with the border closures, quarantines (in some
unfriendly facility) for 10-14 days for Australian citizens wanting to come back into the country,
leading to the 'roll-outs', and 'oppressive mandates' ill-advisedly (or knowingly), in an attempt 'to
halt the spread and flatten the curve', at the same time, giving exaggerated 'powers' to the States.
Even though this 'estimate' proved in actuality, to be a gross exaggeration - the Morrison
government still later continued to endorse the Institutes' 'models', even when it became apparent
that the 'pandemic' could be rightly seen as                   which profited the 'stakeholders'
immensely, at the same time, ruining our economy and plunging this country into massive debt.
I cannot fail to mention the considerable 'trauma' inflicted by State Premiers and Health
bureaucrats, in their turn, with the 'powers' vested in them', against their own constituents by
mercilessly imposing 'border closures' and prohibitions. Attempts to visit and sit with dying 'loved
ones' in Hospitals, attend funerals, weddings, (if family members were coming from Interstate) were
frustrated UNLESS THEY HAD BEEN VAXXED. The effects on children removed from school,
businesses, schools, learning institutions, sanctions on churches, vaxx mandates imposed on our
'essential services' - defence/service personnel, nurses, teachers, paramedics, etc) caused great
suffering and mental anguish. People in this country had to juggle each States' own set of rules.
Yet, Morrison continued to say - 'There ARE no vaccine mandates in this country'. Talk about



Note: I listened to Morrison, Hunt and ^^^^|as they announced the 'rollout' of the vaxx 25th
January 2021 - never did they mention the safety and efficacy of the 'jab'. [There weren't any.]
What I did know about the 'vaxx' was that it was 'an artificial treatment - NOT a vaccine in the legal
sense - because it does not contain any 'live virus'. 'They' (the vaxx) were rolled out by 'compliant
governments' at the insistence of the World Health Organization, CDC and other entities in the US,
as an EMERGENCY MEASURE to treat the SYMPTOMS of a 'Covid virus' - that, in fact, did not
manifest 'as the diabolical threat' it was first purported to be, anywhere in the world. The 'vaxx' are
still not proven to be safe or effective. What is proven is that the vaxx, does NOT protect people
from the 'virus' nor does it stop transmission. What we do know about this 'artificial treatment' is
that it 'wipes out' our natural immunity - leaving people vulnerable to other strains and infections -
and its composition is deemed to be DNA altering. Meanwhile, hydroxychloroquine (HDQ) or
Ivermectin - known since WW11 to be effective against malaria and proven 'safe' over a long
penod of time, was 'demonized'. Drs^^^^^^USA),^^^^^^^^^|(USA) and^^^^^J
        (Australia) all called for the release of HDQ knowing that it could, prevent the virus from
progressing to Stage 2 and avoiding hospitalisation.
At the outset, President Trump tried to assure American people that HDQ could be used to
moderate 'symptoms' (he took HDQ himself, as a prophylactic) but Fauci and company, I feel, shut
him up. [BigPharma was not to miss out on a killing]. All along - 'our compliant governments' were
playing into the hands of the 'globalist agenda', at the expense of the people, wrecking families and
businesses and eroding the 'confidence' of its citizens.
It is further understood, that BigPharm had an 'indemnity' clause in its contracts with governments,
that even if a less costly 'treatment' was found - the full cost of the 'contract' was binding.
In actual fact, 'the Covid virus' was finally understood to be 'a flu-like illness' from which 95.5% of
people recovered. 99.9% recovery for children. The 'virus' predominately affected the 'elderly' who
had other co-morbidities, which contributed to their deaths, BUT those deaths were 'recorded' as
'covid deaths', despite other mitigating health issues. No age group was exempt from the fanatical
attempt to 'vaccinate everyone'. It further turns out, that children and pregnant women should not
be vaxxed. For pregnant women, it is not safe. Children are resilient against the 'flu-like virus' and
have a 99.9% recovery rate. [Data established by medical professionals].
In Australia, it was recorded that through 2020, 957-9 people died from 'covid' in a population of 25
million. By any stretch of the imagination, this is NOT a pandemic, (obtained from government
website).

Note: Monash University in Australia, [not the most reputable institution] finally made a
statement in August, 2021 - 'Studies show that HDQ kills the virus within 48 hours'. Frontline
Doctot^ls^^oorted that fact, when asking for HDQ to be (at least) trialled. Didn't happen. Dr
                           also asserted that the use of 'Povodine-iodine - Betadine, gargled and
swabbed up the nose, at the beginning of the symptoms, (because that is where the virus 'lived')
suppressed the virus within 48 hours preventing the 'virus' from moving to Stage 2 - reducing the
necessity for hospitalisation. His is one of the leading 'voices' in this 'counter-narrative'.
Hospitalisation and the use of Remdesivir also proved to be a 'death' sentence.
                             in                - outlining protocol for treating hospitalisations -
Youtube

Faulty PCR tests
To add to the 'mismanagement'- at that time, it also emerged that the PCR Tests CANNOT
differentiate between the' flu' and the 'virus' - they were never intended to do so. Further, the tests
were 'run' in excess of 20 cycles - ramped up to around 30-35 cycles = way over the limit and to the
greater extent, produced 'false positives'. [The poor people in Western Sydney (not to mention the
people in Victoria who endured the most severe and continuous lockdowns of any country) were
subject to extreme 'lockdowns' and 'over the top' testing which were not producing accurate
results]. What a shambles! The fraudulent 'faulty PCR testing became the subject of Court review at
Nuremberg. See                        International Lawyer specialising in 'fraud' uncovering this
'truth'. He describes what has happened to the global population as - 'the greatest crime against
humanity ever committed', particularly in light of the PCR tests proven to be fraudulent.
Google:                      Interview with                Brighteon.com
The mantra put out by the WHO - We are ALL sick until proven healthy and PCR and Rat tests
became 'a way of life'.

All the while - as the Premiers played their 'own power game', Dan Andrews in
Victoria outpacing them all - Morrison did not and would not 'challenge' the National Cabinet,
allowing the Premiers to remain unchecked.
There were NO cohesive guidelines for the country as a whole. State Premiers have still not forfeited
their 'over-reaching' powers or been asked to do so by the Federal government.
I also ask, where was Greg Hunt in all of this? It seems that ALL the 'players' refused to 'look at the
counter narrative'. Instead, operated solely on what the WHO and other Agencies 'dictated', while
the incessant MSM insisted 'we follow the science'.

Medical professionals around the world, raising the alarm at the outset, as to the efficacy and
safety of the mRNA vaxx.
I began to look further, and in the months prior to the 'roll-out of the vaxx', credentialled medical
practitioners - virologists, research scientists, epidemiologists, cardiologists spoke out loudly, from
around the world, that this 'vaccine' was not properly developed or exhaustive clinical trials
undertaken and it couldn't be deemed 'safe'.

Names of Doctors - outstanding in their respective fields                       (former scientist with
Pfizer);                                                           (Ireland) - World Freedom Alliance;
                    (Nobel Prize nominee - sadly died from a cancer on 30th June 2022 - about 50
years old);|              Nobel Prize Winner/lnventor);
                          ■(research fellow - discovered in about 2010 that                   and Wuhan
China were 'experimenting'. She was demonised and her 'findings' defunded and destroyed.
Dismissed from her Research Institute and threatened with gaol. What she also discovered that the
Obama Administration then 'put a stop' to the involvement of the                     (it had become too
dangerous), but continued to fund the 'project' in Wuhan;                                         - retired
- traces history of 'covid fraud' from the beginning;
                  young mother of                        founder of Americas Frontline Doctors
            57 years deceased - foul play suspected);
                                                                            - warned - this is not a vaxx,
it is irreversible genetic modification; Associate Prof of Medicine                 warned that these are
expensive 'pharmaceutically engineered' drugs;|                 |, Dr
he has noticed a 'spike in aggressive cancers' since the vaxx - even people who have been in
remission for many years have seen cancer return).

Indictment against the Morrison government and successive Government -
is that multiple petitions were 'sent in' by the citizens of this country opposing 'mandatory
vaccination' - a decision made even worse, if a person's job or livelihood was threatened. The
petitions were not taken into consideration. The people spoke and were ignored.
Mandatory or coerced vaccination violated Australia's Constitution.

The Covid-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2021 went before the House.
Only 7 Senators stood up for our Constitution and the rights of Australian citizens NOT to be forced
or coerced into any mandatory intervention.

The 'key players' - representing the Australian people - 'over-ruled' the Constitution and ignored
the pleas of 'thinking and responsible Australians'. What is the penalty for those wilfully violating
the Constitution?

Suppression of Data on 'adverse events' from around the world
With the 'rollout' of the mRNA 'vaxx' - before long, people were reporting 'adverse events' of a
serious nature. The Frontline Doctors,at the outset, warned the likelihood of this occurring.
Data was collected, but not published, here in this country and overseas. The Health Agencies
preferred to 'stay quiet'. However, Dr^^^^^^^^JUK) in particular, has recently disclosed data
on the 'obvious spike' in people suffering cardiac problems' here in Australia - since the vaxx
rollout. Data shows that far more people have died from 'adverse events' from the vaxx, than from
the 'virus' itself. Dr^^^^l- supports soaring heart issues. Adverse events do not relate solely to
heart problems. Clotting disorders (deep vein thrombosis), anaphylaxis, seizures, acute cardiac
injury, facial weakness or paralysis - Bells palsy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, miscarriages, autoimmune
disease. Dr                                 ^^^JSA has reported that tests are now showing a 'spike'
in aggressive cancers - even for those who have been in remission for 20 years.
Another phenomena is the number of 'elite' athletes, who have collapsed and died on the playing
field. The question of 'why' is not reported.

A champion in the 'quest for truth' is                       He has written a 600 page volume on

        The facts are 'out there'

Former Senator,back in October 2021 in a Blog wrote - 'We've been conned'. He
stated - 'nation after nation has battered its economy and its citizens into submission &
bankruptcy. It has been the most disproportionate response to a perceived problem in history'.

                                    lew - Rethinking Covid 2 hr 19 mins. Prof Medicine Stanford/Dr
                                    r - A sober evaluation of covid vaccines. Youtube.

To Summarise
Governance
The 'mismanagement of Covid' by government(s) - State and Federal and the subsequent 'fallout'
on the citizens of this country (and around the world) is colossal. Reiner Fuellmich and Others are
correct when they declare that - 'what has happened to the global population is 'the greatest
crime against humanity ever committed'.

The Citizens of this country have been 'bullied and coerced' into complying with mandates and
restrictions that saw a trajectory in mental illness and suicide among the young; left people in Aged
Care without family support for long periods of time; forced people to be vaxxed in order to hold
their jobs and secure a living - which violated our Constitution - every aspect of our societal
structure has suffered loss. Our country has been 'gutted' psychologically, productively and
financially. It is going to take 'a long time' to recover. We have been betrayed by 'ignorant and
incompetent people' in authority and in our Institutions, who 'have danced' to the globalist tune.
What has been spent on procuring a 'vaxx' that doesn't work and causes adverse health outcomes,
has made the deca-wealthy even more sickenly wealthy.
This entire 'deal' has come at great cost to the people of Australia.

No wonder the Albanese Government doesn't want to launch into an Inquiry and has brushed the
'request' under the carpet and 'just hopes the notion of an Inquiry - will go away, if you ignore it
long enough'.

WHO Pandemic Treaty
II protest the leaders of this country 'signing us up' to the WHO Pandemic Treaty. An 'unelected'
Body ie WHO, UN, has no right to 'dictate' to or threaten the 'sovereignty' of this country. Several
countries have already withdrawn their support of this proposal. I suggest that this country -
follows suit and withdraws from the 'influence' of the WHO. We do NOT want 'more of the same'
in the future.

Support for industry and businesses 'gutted' by Covid Response
Support for farmers and food producers - threatened by unreasonable 'production requirements'
Again, the name                touted - alleged to have bought up vast tracts of land in the US to
further 'modify' food that is produced and distributed. Is mRNA to be injected into beef cattle -(in
this country) which unsuspecting people then consume? What are we going to be able to eat
which has not been poisoned or 'modified? Again, he has 'meddled' with food production in India.
(His^Hknows no bounds. He is committed to his 'agenda'.)
Let Australian farmers and food producers 'DO' what they do best without compromising them
ethically and financially.

Key health response measures. In this regard I cannot offer anything constructive. There are 'others'
who can 'collectively' work out measures to protect this country from future 'health scares'. Again,
            has warned that there will be 'another pandemic'. However, let us look to our own
'initiatives' and NOT fall for the WHO's manipulation and control.

Finally -
I make my appeal - I am opposed to the removal of our 'Freedoms' by governments in the form of
mask mandates, vaxx mandates, lockdowns, curfews, social distancing, border closing, prohibition
on visiting people in hospitals, government facilities, nursing homes, vaccine passports, proof of
vaccination for medical records. What has 'been dealt' to the Australin people over the last 4 years,
based 'on the science', lies and misinformation has seriously, set this country back'.

What has also been undermined is the doctor/patient relationship. People no longer have the 'same
trust' of medical opinion since 'covid'. Medical professionals also have been 'put under pressure' to
only speak the 'government narrative, for fear of being 'barred from practice'.

 A thorough Covid Inquiry should be convened, to look into ALL aspects as to how the Pandemic
(Scamdemic) was handled. Those who 'over-reached' their 'authority and powers' should be named
and held accountable. [But, of course, the 'snakes' will slither out of the snake pit in the hope that
that never happens. At the very least, government pensions should be withdrawn. Happily (for the
perpetrators of the wrong doing /crimes against humanity) it is not the 1500's when 'traitors' were
sent to the Tower.

Thank you for reading my Submission. I hope that 'justice' prevails. Certainly, 'the truth' always
comes out in the long run.
Let us be arbiters of Truth. People are 'done' with the lies and certainly with government
intervention where our 'freedoms and liberty' are at stake.




Footnote: Both Momson and Albanese were under ‘^^^Hsway. Interesting that Albanese spent
more time with     after his return from Alice Springs (riots) that he did trying to 'address' that
unrest. And where is Greg Hunt? Back under the umbrella of the WEF?

Postscript: Will these oppressors 'get off Scott Free?' No. There is one Court from which they can't
escape. EVERYONE has to 'give account' in the long run to Almighty God - Ecclesiastes 12:14. states:
(through King Solomon) 'For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing,
whether good or evil'. No escape for those who have done wrong. A price will remain on their
heads, till the 'score is settled'.
