COVID-19 Response
Inquiry


BCA Submission
December 2023




                    BCA
                    Business Council of Australia
Overview
The Business Council of Australia (BCA) welcomes the opportunity to contribute to the inquiry into COVID-19, the
biggest economic and health crisis to strike Australia for one hundred years. On the whole, Australia navigated
the COVID-19 pandemic extremely well compared with other countries when comparing the tens of thousands
of avoided lives lost and limiting the negative economic impact.

The aim of an examination of the COVID experience should be to understand what worked well, such as
collaboration between governments and business, and identify areas for improvement. The prominent role of the
Australian business community cannot be overstated. These lessons will be vital for navigating the next crisis.

This submission focuses on the economic and governance elements of the response to COVID, rather than the
health response.


Scope of inquiry too narrow
COVID was managed via unprecedented intersections between all levels of governments, the business
community and broader society. It follows that the link between the health and economic responses between
the Commonwealth and the states cannot be ignored as part of the broader inquiry. The strengths and
weaknesses within our Federation were laid bare for Australians in a salient way during the COVID pandemic. The
exclusion of states from scrutiny in this inquiry has not adequately been explained and means the focus of this
inquiry is too narrow. A complete inquiry should cover all levels of government and society and include the role
of business.

The sentiments expressed here acknowledge that the roles and responsibilities of the states and territories are
hard to disentangle and were at the heart of the nation's pandemic response. In large part the fiscal cost of
restrictions was borne by the Commonwealth, which impacted its dynamic with the states and their decisions to
impose restrictions. In many areas the ability of the Commonwealth to respond was also reliant on the response
from states. These responses, therefore, should be examined alongside those of the Commonwealth.


Overall, the COVID-19 response was good
In summary, Australia weathered both the health and economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic
better than most countries. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 in Australia was the fifth lowest among
OECD countries on a per capita basis.1 The economic damage - measured collectively by the fall in GDP and rise
in unemployment - was more modest. Strong health and economic outcomes were inextricably linked.

Australia's economy suffered a technical recession, but the depths of the decline in real GDP was modest
compared to other countries. Moreover, the rebound in activity once restrictions were eased was impressive,
thanks in part to well-targeted and constructed policy support both by governments (including the states) and
the Reserve Bank of Australia. Indeed, Australia's positive experience was buoyed by unprecedented levels of
cooperation across government, business and the community.

Response and leadership from government, overall, was good in the face of the significant crisis and enormous
uncertainty. This includes the establishment of National Cabinet in March 2020. Moreover, there was close
partnership and coordination with business, as well as adequate and timely support for households, businesses
and workers. The announcement of JobKeeper was a country-changing moment.2 A positive legacy of the
pandemic was that it accelerated digital transition in the Australian economy, and there is scope to build on this.




1 Our World in Data
2 See the BCA's submission to the Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment
https://assets.nationbuilder.com/bca/paqes/7320/attachments/oriqinal/1693463058/BCA Submission to the Independent Evaluation of th
e JobKeeper Pavment.pdf?1693463058



BCA
Business Council of Australia                                                                 COVID-19 Response Inquiry          1
A key element of the response from governments was the willingness to adapt approaches and responses -
from both health and economic policy perspectives. This was supported by extensive consultation and
engagement with business and the community. This helped Australia navigate the crisis in a pragmatic and
responsible way, maintaining good health and economic outcomes.


BCA members' experience
Governments acted boldly during the pandemic, making decisions of unprecedented gravity. But, in an
environment of huge uncertainty, business stepped up to support the hundreds of thousands of affected
workers, adapt workplaces and support the health response. Business worked together with governments as well
as unions, charities and environmental groups, to find new and collaborative ways to keep people safe and keep
as many people in jobs as possible. During the pandemic BCA member companies:

■      Maintained essential services, and kept supermarkets, petrol stations, pharmacies, retail outlets and other
       shops open;

■       deferred and discounted utility bills, deferred mortgage payments and offered discounted loans;

■       switched production lines to make gloves, masks and hand sanitiser, with companies such as GE and
        ResMed converting their products to make lifesaving respirators;

■       introduced pandemic leave and paid casuals who could not work because of the virus or restrictions;

■       were quick to bring in contactless delivery and other customer and staff safety measures; and

■       led in early contact tracing and moved quickly to working from home arrangements.3


National Cabinet worked effectively
National Cabinet formed quickly at the onset of the pandemic and worked well in the early stages of the national
crisis. National Cabinet met over sixty times during 2020 and 2021 in a constructive manner that facilitated
effective and coordinated engagement, including as part of health and economic policy responses between the
Commonwealth, state and territory governments. The fact that National Cabinet as a model for engagement and
collaboration has continued, is a testament to its value in being able to bring the leaders together to resolve
difficult issues.

Unfortunately, National Cabinet results became more challenging as the pandemic progressed due to the
disparate COVID experience across the states and territories. This led to inconsistent responses across
jurisdictions and partly undermined the effectiveness and credibility of National Cabinet.


What else worked well?
■      The response from the Commonwealth government. The government acted quickly to remove red tape
       where there was an imperative to do so and keep as much of the economy open as was possible in the
       circumstances. Regulators similarly stepped up to boost capacity and support, delivered more flexible
       monitoring and compliance, and closer engagement with business.

       -        Examples include changing local government curfews on truck movements, and allowing
                supermarkets to coordinate to keep shelves stocked, extending retail trading hours for customers,
                permitting electronic signatures for documents and making changes to regulations around hand
                sanitiser production.

■      The fiscal and monetary policy response was appropriate (at the time), although probably became too large
       as time passed and economic activity rebounded. Many of these assessments are easier to make with



3 An extensive list of support provided by BCA member companies is available here https://www.bca.com.au/what our members are doing



BCA
Business Council of Australia                                                                   COVID-19 Response Inquiry             2
        hindsight considering the challenges and unpredictability of the pandemic at the time. The RBA similarly
        waited too long to unwind unconventional policies like yield curve management and raise interest rates.

■       Business engagement with governments was constructive. The BCA executive and BCA members had
        effective engagement, including with the National COVID-19 Coordination Commission and Treasury's
        Coronavirus Business Liaison Unit, as well as with similar state-level organisations. Ongoing dialogues
        between government and business were timely and effective. However, it must be noted that the
        engagement was not even across the states and territories and this created issues which could not be
        resolved via the Commonwealth and hindered business operations as they sought to work across borders.

       -        Where this did work well saw business and governments collaborate to ensure restrictions could
                balance the policy intent of supporting health outcomes with ensuring jobs for workers and the
                availability of essential goods and services for households.

■      Regular meetings between government officials and business representatives during outbreaks and
       lockdowns provided opportunities to consult on restrictions, troubleshoot issues, ensure that restrictions
       were workable across industries and plan the return to business-as-usual once restrictions lifted.


What could have worked better?
A key challenge for business, particularly those with operations across Australia, was inconsistent protocols
across the country - compounded by frequent changes and inconsistent decision making. This includes the way
lockdowns were triggered, how public health orders were drafted, and how restrictions on movement were
imposed and enforced.

■       A priority for future responses should be the development of national, consistent protocols to provide
        greater certainty about the rules for businesses and individuals in the event of outbreaks and in relation to
        our domestic borders. This of course must acknowledge the fact that different jurisdictions have different
        expectations and capacities for action.

It was not always clear how the balance between health advice and economic advice was achieved, particularly
at the state level. Some jurisdictions had clear sources of economic advice while others did not.

The inconsistences and uncertainty had a material impact on business and households. For example, over half of
people surveyed in 2021 said they were nervous about booking travel not because of catching COVID, but
because of concerns about borders closing and not being able to get home.

Ideally, public health orders would be set out in advance what business activities need to reduce or cease, with
all other activities able to continue. While we acknowledge this is not always possible when dealing with the
unknowns of a pandemic, the more consistent and planned the processes are, the better in achieving effective
outcomes that can balance both the health and economic objectives. As part of this process, ensuring that there
is strong business engagement to assist in informing the decision making, particularly the consequences and the
practical implications of effecting decisions is necessary.

The pandemic also created unique and urgent challenges for procurement and distribution networks for
governments. While many of these challenges were ultimately overcome, there are lessons that can be learned
around how things could have been done better and/or sooner.

The international border was one of the last major restrictions to be eased as part of the pandemic. The delayed
border opening brought negative effects on migration, education exports (i.e.. international students) and
tourism, but may have played an important role in mitigating the health downside. While the economic effects
largely have been reversed, less activity could have been lost over time with a more expanded, risk-based
approach to international border controls. The Commonwealth decision to open the international border was
dependent on the states and territories (e.g. ability to disembark passengers) and improved cooperation would
have assisted the Commonwealth.




BCA
Business Council of Australia                                                           COVID-19 Response Inquiry       3
 BUSINESS COUNCIL OF AUSTRALIA

 GRO Box 1472, Melbourne 3001 T 03 8664 2664 F 03 8664 2666 www.bca.com.au

 © Copyright December 2023 Business Council of Australia ABN 75 008 483 216

 All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or used in any way without acknowledgement
 to the Business Council of Australia.

 The Business Council of Australia has taken reasonable care in publishing the information contained in this
 publication but does not guarantee that the information is complete, accurate or current. In particular, the BCA is
 not responsible for the accuracy of information that has been provided by other parties. The information in this
 publication is not intended to be used as the basis for making any investment decision and must not be relied
 upon as investment advice. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the BCA disclaims all liability (including
 liability in negligence) to any person arising out of use or reliance on the information contained in this publication
 including for loss or damage which you or anyone else might suffer as a result of that use or reliance.



BCA
Business Council of Australia                                                         COVID-19 Response Inquiry      4
