December 12, 2023



RE: COVID-19 Response Inquiry



Dear Sir/Madam,



Thank you for inviting public comment on the COVID-19 Response.

My name is              and I have suffered immensely due to totally mismanaged response to
COVID-19.

I strongly urge everyone in this Inquiry Panel to consider immediate request for a full Royal
Commission for a proper investigation into:

1. Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts
2. Vaccine mandates
3. Vaccine injuries
4. Mask mandates and lockdowns
5. Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection and
transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured
6. The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the vaccine and
their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession.


Who decided to do the opposite of the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic
Influenza, which prophetically described why all of the actions the Government did take would network
and would cause hardship?


We the people of Commonwealth of Australia need answers, not a whitewash COVID-19 Response
Inquiry!

I urge everyone in this panel to follow https://www.internationalcovidsummit.com
and take immediate action for TRUTH in regards COVID-19!


The INTERNATIONAL COVID SUMMIT was created for doctors, lawyers and professionals from all
over the world to unite and discuss their experiences with COVID-19. This is an uncensored and safe
haven where they are able to gather, share, discuss and analyze their findings in order to find safe and
effective treatments for Covid-19 and all of the complications that surrounds it. These medical
professionals sacrifice everything and work tirelessly to help put an end to this pandemic. The sharing
of the data and research from around the world is instrumental in finding effective treatments for
Covid-19 and it is pivotal in getting us all back together safely again.


If you truly care for this nation, please stand for justice!

I personally suffered immense loss, medical nergligence/or lack of specialist treatments, restrictions to
be at my father's funeral and to be with my mother during difficult times for her and much more that left
me with a lot of trauma to heal.


                                                        1
I pray that you stand for justice and help this nation to never ever suffer again the disaster in the name
of protecting against a mere flu...

Sincerely,




                                                     2
