                         Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

                                     TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

I am just an ordinary citizen, but capable of listening, observing and of drawing my own conclusions. I have
also done my own research to double check the veracity of what the government and the main-stream media
has told us about the COVID 19 crisis. I believe that my perceptions and conclusions are representative of
many people like myself who are capable of thinking for ourselves. It could be that a majority of the
population, have by now, come to similar conclusions.

The key points are that the federal government
       -          has been deceitful in their representations to the people on these issues,
       -          they have betrayed our trust in favour of entities which exist outside this country
       - they have demonstrated crass cowardice in trying to say that the States are responsible for what
          happened and not themselves.

As a consequence, they should be required to accept responsibility for the decisions which they have made
(decisions of omission as well as commission) and should be held fully accountable for the consequences of
those decisions. This should include apologizing to us the people as a minimum but also to stand before a
tribunal                              order to pay the price for their crimes.

For myself, I have been very fortunate in that I have not suffered as some have from the government’s
mishandling of this crisis. Apart from the first lock-downs which happened so quickly that we had no
opportunity to double-check the information which the government was giving us, after that, because I could
think for myself and make my own decisions I did not comply with any of the subsequent mandates.
However I knew personally, as everyone does, people who died as a result of what the government
encouraged us and even coerced us to do, and others who lost their jobs or livelihoods.

Here are some examples.
       - the COVID scare was based on lies. A virus cannot exist outside the body unless intentionally
           manufactured in a laboratory. Viruses normally exist to combat toxins, they themselves are not
           like bacteria and do not cause disease. They exist as a result of some disease or toxin. Whatever
           it was that caused the so-called C0VID19 (which was patented and therefore manufactured by
           humans) it did not cause a plague. It was not life threatening to anyone who did not have any co­
           morbidities. The overall death-rate did not increase during that period. All the government told
           us during that time was a lie.
       - The PCR tests were fraudulent. They could not distinguish between Covid and the flu. It is
           highly likely that they were actually poisonous and killed people but in any case caused
           considerable physical suffering and immense psychological suffering and humiliation.
       - The ‘vaccines’ were, at best, experimental and not properly tested, at the worst they were
           intentionally manufactured poisons with anything between 24 and 47 toxic ingredients. They
           have certainly maimed or killed thousands of people who took them in good faith because the
           government said so and because, foolishly, we trusted the government to tell the truth. Safe and
           effective we were told they were, but for whom ? They were certainly not safe for those who
          ^^^^believed the lies and accepted to be jabbed. The overall death statistics did go shooting
           up soon after the vaccines started being administered, but nothing has been said about this. It has
           just been ignored even though many doctors have been trying to raise this issue for the past 2
           years now.
       - So then, all this was covered up. People who have tried to speak up on our behalf to try and get
           the real truth out have been resisted and harassed in every way imaginable. The government
           even has had the gall to ignore its own statistics published by their own departments as
           mentioned re the death statistics above.
       - As far as I know only 2 federal MPS out of the whole bunch of them tried at the time to speak up
           for us the people and to defend us against this onslaught. They tried to put a bill through to stop
           the pressure and the mandates, but apparently they were mocked and the bill was voted down.
       -   The federal government of course has the right to make decisions for the good of the whole
           country. It is crass and ridiculous to say that it was an issue for the States to deal with this, which
           was, after all, a global ‘pandemic’ and not just a local issue. These two MPs then subsequently
           lost their seats even though they were the only ones doing the job for which they were elected in
           the first place, and for which they were paid : that is to represent the best interests of their
           constituents. This means that all the other MPs whether on the side of the government at the
           time, or members of the opposition, are all guilty of covering up what was going on and of
           refusing to make decisions which were honest, unselfish and right. They are guilty of refusing to
           take steps to protect the innocent, of refusing to find out the truth of the matter, and of standing
           by and not helping those whose lives were in danger. These are all high crimes for people who
           have been given the privilege and the mandate to govern this nation in the best interests of all of
           us.

In my case I wrote to my (Liberal) MP about all this. The first time I had ever done such a thing in my life,
since I felt so strongly about it and felt for the people I knew who were going through such hard times. I
received a very ‘nice’ answer. It said that Scott Morrison’s view (and his) was that we should all have free
choice as to whether to accept the mandates or not. Apparently in law a ‘mandate’ is not technically
enforceable but only becomes binding if the other party accepts it, so technically this statement was correct.
But of course the government did not explain this to us and what our rights were in the face of a ‘mandate’.
And then he also said that it was not his problem because it was the States who were issuing the mandates.
As mentioned before this is self-evidently crass cowardice and an asinine refusal to take responsibility for
oneself.

However, within a very short time I received in my mail box a personal letter addressed to me from the PM
himself, in beautiful colour and printed on expensive paper and his very own signature at the bottom. I
wonder how much all that cost the tax-payer ?? This letter told a different story, so there were lies and
deception right there. It was of course very beautifully written - by a paid script-writer no doubt - in very
beguiling, dulcet tones that we should all get jabbed. But for any intelligent person the message was clear.
The PM wanted us to get jabbed and was applying not very subtle emotional and psychological pressure to
coerce us to do so. We were told -as everyone else in the whole world - that we were not all safe until we
were all safe. Beguiling and sweet sounding words, but actually total nonsense with no resemblance to the
truth at all. Only             would think on reflection that such things made any logical sense. Except in
the case where the so-called ‘vaccines’ were not true vaccines at all, of course.

Why would a person who has the privilege and responsibility to organise the government of a whole nation
be so crassly deceptive and hypocritical ? The answer is actually not hard to find.

The WEF, the UN and the WHO are all foreign, international organisations which, in theory, have no
mandate at all to make rules and laws for us who live here in Australia. What they think is in the public
domain. For years they have been preparing us for a coming pandemic and trying to persuade us that we
should all meekly accept any restrictions on our freedom which may be imposed on us.


live in 15 minute cities, just like the one that is in the works for the region where I live. These plans which
were originally due to be brought about in 2021 (Agenda 21) are not hidden but have been openly stated.

It is clear therefore, that when the COVID crisis was concocted, all governments including ours here in
Australia had a choice to make. On the one hand, they could side with these non-Australian organisations
and go along with what they wanted by actively promoting their policies and plans. Or, on the other hand,
they could side with their people and resist this tyranny coming from the outside in order to protect the best
interests of their people for which, in theory, they were elected and paid to do.
It is obvious to any rational observer that they chose to suppo                  This means that the
betrayed their own people and handed them over to
                 This is a crime of the most gigantic proportions which needs to be addressed.

Not only is this a massive betrayal of trust, but it also amounts to what, in other contexts, is known as


                                                         So that means that our government is, at the very
least, guilty of being complicit in crimes against humanity.

So then, in conclusion, I am not at all sure why you are bothering to waste time, money and effort in
organising an enquiry into these matters. As I said, all this information is in the public domain. All you
have to do is open your eyes and ears and observe what has been said and what has been done. Except of
course, if the real purpose of this enquiry is to whitewash the whole affair and shove it under the mat. We
don’t need an enquiry of that sort, for what we need is for the truth to come out and justice to be done.

Let those who are innocent be vindicated and set free. But let those who are guilty be required to pay for
what they have done and make some sort of retribution if that is possible.

So in writing this submission, as a citizen of this country of Australia - the land where we rejoice to be
young and free-1 am not just requesting, but I am demanding in the name of Almighty God and of all that is
right and true, that you move rapidly and decisively to bring all these criminals to justice. May not a single
one be allowed to get off unscathed.

Now is the time for you to take responsibility to do something about this after all this time that has been
wasted so far. But the time is short and may soon run out.


Respectfully submitted


15111 December 2023
