I'm the father of two                 nd hold^^^^Bposition within a
company.

The draconian, authoritarian, paternalistic and propagandistic approach taken by federal and state
governments during the covid pandemic, particularly 'vaccine' mandates, placed our entire family
under tremendous stress and anxiety, the effects of which we still feel today. It has significantly
weakened our trust in public institutions that, in our family's perspective will take decades to
restore.

First and foremost was a complete disregard of the ethical principle over bodily autonomy. Instead
the mandates left the impression that the ruling party could treat humans like cattle, to be injected
at will without any recourse. And to argue that there was no "force" is disingenuous at best. Losing a
sole source of income, your family home and potentially being compelled to live in the streets is
indeed a brutish force.

We were bullied, harassed, demonised and ridiculed on a daily basis under threat of employment
dismissal for many months despite providing a very logical and factual defence. Externally it was no
better, being turned away from ordering a cup of coffee to drink under a tree was just one of the
sadly comical outcomes. Many may have buckled under the peer pressure, forgetting lessons
learned from childhood school days to stay strong and decline.

Ethics sits above science and it was deeply disturbing to see the Australian Government losing sight
of this. Australia of all places, how can this be?

To add insult to injury was the barrage of fear driven propaganda, censorship coupled with biased
and ill experienced "fact checkers", disregard for privacy and mobility, police brutality, lack of
medical independence from global interference particularly pharmaceutical and other corporates,
suppression of early treatment options, disregard for actual science both established and new
(including various forms of ineffective masking), failure to provide consistent context (for example
age & co-morbidities), the list goes on.

Some young people tragically lost their lives as a result to these ill-conceived policies and I fear that
more is yet to come if and when another pandemic circulates.

Can Australia at least learn from this experience, apologise for the injustices and vow never to
repeat a 3 year debacle that should have never been? I hope and pray it does, along with other
nations that followed similar ill-founded trajectories.
