14/12/2023

RE: Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry


Dear Committee Members,

The following submission is based predominantly on my experiences as a^^BPharmacist at a New
South Wales Local Health District. As of 30 September 2021, I was stood down and then
subsequently terminated from this position due to the NSW public health orders for mandatory
vaccination for healthcare workers. Due to this job loss, relocation to another town eventuated,
along with much hardship. It is negligent that unilateral state decisions are outside the scope of this
inquiry, as much learning could be achieved by incorporating state decisions.

As a former ^^■Pharmacist during the Covid period, my role included strategic planning and
operational responsibilities across broad areas such as medication governance, clinical pharmacy
services, workforce planning and development, procurement & distribution of medicines and
meeting the accreditation standards for medication safety. Therefore, I would like to make the
following submission to this inquiry.

Failure to introduce legislation to prevent mandatory vaccination & consequential breach of
informed consent and medical human rights.
There was a failure by the Commonwealth Government to introduce legislation to prevent
mandatory Covid vaccination. Whilst an effort was made to introduce legislation twice; COVID-19
Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment
(Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023, neither of these Bills were passed.
The Bills were not passed despite the unequivocal breach of informed consent and medical human
rights, along with denying the right to work with mandatory vaccination. This is evidenced through a
range of national and international codes, declarations, and principles:
    •   The Australian Immunisation Handbook states that "vaccines must be given voluntarily in
        the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation."
    •   The Nuremberg Code has as its first principle that the voluntary consent of the human
        subject is essential.
    •   The Siracusa Principles on the Limitation and Derogation of Provisions in the International
        Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states that no State Party shall derogate from the
        Covenant's guarantees of freedom from medical or scientific experimentation without free
        consent.
    •   The Australian Human Right Commission Act 1986 (Commonwealth) provides in Article 7
        that "no one shall be subjected without his free consent to medical or scientific
        experimentation."
    •   Article 6 of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights (2005) states: "Any
        preventative, diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be carried out with
        the proper, free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate
        information."
    •   Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stipulates that everyone has a right
        to work and free choice of employment; and the Australian Human Rights Commission
        affirms the obligation of states to assure individuals their right to freely chosen or accepted
        work.

Legislation must be implemented in Australia immediately that prevents mandatory vaccination of
citizens under any circumstance.
Insufficient alternative treatment options provided by the Commonwealth Government
The Commonwealth Government, particularly in 2020 and most of 2021, failed to provide sufficient
alternative treatment options. The Australian Immunisation Handbook, states that informed consent
to immunisation can only be given after alternative options have been explained to the person.
The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) enforced unnecessary prescribing restrictions on
certain medications such as ivermectin. This is despite contrasting evidence. One important paper on
this is referenced here: Bryant A, Lawrie TA, Dowswell T, Fordham EJ, Mitchell S, Hill SR, et al.
(2021). Ivermectin for prevention and treatment of COVID-19 infection: A systematic review, meta­
analysis, and trial sequential analysis to inform clinical guidelines. American Journal of Therapeutics,
28(4), e434-e460
Furthermore, certain senior health officials misled the public when they stated ivermectin is a horse
medicine and not for human use. Ivermectin has been on the World Health Organisation Essential
Medicines List for human use for many years. It is listed for use in parasitic infections and is also
included in the Australian Therapeutic Guidelines for treatment resistant head lice in humans. During
my time as a volunteer pharmacist in Malawi in 2007 and 2008, ivermectin was broadly used in
humans. These health officials have never been made accountable for making misleading comments
and implementing prescribing restrictions on alternative treatment options that led to led to poorer
outcomes for patients. There must be limits put on the power of health officials and the TGA to
determine what an authorised prescriber can prescribe for their own patient, when there is long
term safety data already available on a medicine. This will help return the sanctity of the doctor­
patient relationship that has been severely eroded by non-clinicians in recent years.

No vaccine made available that is not associated with abortion
There were Australians that decided not to have one of the Covid vaccines that were made
accessible in Australia due to the connection of these vaccines to abortion (either in the
development of the vaccine or testing of the vaccine). The Commonwealth Government has a
responsibility to care for all Australians and this includes those that have a conscientious objection to
a therapeutic intervention connected to abortion. Family Life Australia petitioned the Prime Minister
and Chief Health Officer about this issue and the Catholic Archbishop of Sydney advocated for ethical
vaccine options. However, there was never any goodwill, honest intent or action on this by senior
politicians or health officials in Australia, despite such vaccines being available in other countries
overseas. In future, Australia must make available vaccines and medications that are not associated
with abortion, so all Australians have therapeutic options that do not oppose their conscience.

Government refusal to release information about Covid vaccines
The TGA has not been cooperative in providing relevant information to some reasonable Freedom of
Information (FOI) requests related to the vaccine. For example, there was a request made to the TGA
to provide the developmental and reproductive toxicity studies of ^^^and^^^^^^^^vailable
but access to the full information was denied. It is imperative in future that FOI requests are
answered sufficiently and transparently, especially when such requests relate to a vaccine or
pharmaceutical intervention that has been made mandatory and when it is only provisionally
approved.

Process for clinicians and public to report adverse drug reactions.
Healthcare professionals, especially doctors, nurses and pharmacists who were involved in
administering vaccines and caring for those who had an adverse reaction, reported that the system
to report adverse drug reactions to Covid 19 vaccines was unnecessarily long and discouraged
reporting (especially when under resourced). Older persons also reported that they found it difficult
to report adverse effects experienced to the vaccine. The vaccine adverse event reporting system
needs to be simplified to improve pharmacovigilance of vaccines in future. If not, there will remain
significant under reporting of adverse events and a risk of not identifying safety signals earlier.

Conflicts of interest to TGA approval process due to funding from pharmaceutical companies
The current funding of the TGA requires an urgent review. With approximately 95% of funding
coming from pharmaceutical companies, there is a clear conflict of interest in the approval process
for medicines, vaccines, and devices in Australia. This was evident with the hasty provisional approval
provided to vaccines supplied                                             ^^^^Hwhen there was
insufficient clinical trial data in a range of patient cohorts (e.g., those with auto-immune disease) and
a lack of information on genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies.

Transparency of Covid Vaccine contracts with pharmaceutical companies
There remains a lack of transparency as to what is included in the Government contracts with
pharmaceutical companies who supplied Covid vaccines in Australia. Taxpayers who funded and
continue to fund the vaccines, must be able to know what is contained within such contracts. By not
doing so, reduces the trust Australians have in pharmaceutical interventions and there remains a
suspicion of a conflict of interest between the government and pharmaceutical companies.

Advertising of Covid Vaccines
There must be a review as to why the regulation of advertising of vaccines by the TGA was updated
specifically for vaccines in 2019 and then updated further for Covid Vaccines. The impact of this
advertising change influenced Australians decisions on whether to proceed with vaccination despite
the misleading information provided on the benefits of the vaccine (i.e., that it protects others).
Furthermore, this information was allowed despite the TGA Permission stating that advertising is not
to contain any statement regarding the therapeutic goods that is false or misleading! Additionally,
there must be a review on why there was a change to allow rewards and gifts to be provided to
patients to be vaccinated when Covid vaccines became accessible.

Medicines shortages
There were many medicine shortages exacerbated during the Covid 19 period. This included
shortages in the community pharmacy setting but also in the hospital setting, where even
medications needed in intensive care were in short supply. The medicines shortages were
exacerbated by having no local manufacturers for these medicines. It has been well known for many
years that as a nation we are almost entirely dependent on overseas manufacturers for
pharmaceuticals. Avoiding financial partnerships between government and pharmaceutical
companies to set up manufacturing sites is important (as in the case of the mRNA manufacturing
facilities approved for Victoria and Queensland), so there is less conflict of interest between
government and pharmaceutical companies. Rather, governments should support local
pharmaceutical manufacturing through the development of alternative strategies which includes
cheaper energy costs. There also needs to be consideration of the shortages of hand sanitiser and
personal protective equipment that arose (again mostly due to these products being manufactured
overseas).

Wasteful spending
There was excessive procurement of vaccines with some vaccines disposed of due to expiry. PCR
testing was also undertaken with a blanket approach and not often necessary. The money wasted on
these decisions could have been better spent on other parts of the healthcare system in need of
funding and support.

Breaches of Healthcare Privacy
Employers breached healthcare privacy. For example, when I was issued with my show cause letter
as to why I should not be terminated, this letter was initially not sent to me and sent to another
hospital within the Local Health District. This means that personal medical information was provided
to staff that should not have known my vaccination status. Despite a request, the Local Health
District never confirmed who exactly the information was sent to, other than communicating it went
to another hospital and why I didn't receive the letter initially. There must be limits put on what
personal medication information can be accessed by workplaces and accountability and
consequences for workplaces (including public hospitals) if there are breaches of privacy.

Vaccine Indemnity to Pharmaceutical Companies
Pharmaceutical companies should not have indemnity from government for injuries caused by the
Covid vaccine. Such a scheme promotes a culture of 'shortcuts' in getting a vaccine onto the market
knowing that they will not be liable for any injuries or deaths caused by the vaccine.

Care for Vaccine Injured
There must be improved support for persons who have been vaccine injured. A more streamlined
process and recognition of specialists who have provided reports is essential. Have we not learnt
from the thalidomide scandal?

International Border Closures
International border closures and subsequent ongoing prevention of international travel if not
vaccinated was a breach of human rights and not an evidenced based decision. Many Australians
were born overseas and have family overseas. They were not able to travel to visit family members
even at times of illness or to attend a funeral. All the prolonged international border closures did was
extend the harsh Covid response on Australians, thereby causing other health issues as evidenced by
the increasing mental health statistics.

Workforce resources during Covid
In our Local Health District, pharmacists were pulled away from undertaking their clinical pharmacy
responsibilities solely for the purpose of administering vaccines. This had a significant impact on the
ability to deliver the minimum standard of care to patients on wards and increased their risk of
medication errors. With less pharmacists on the wards, less medication reconciliation and
medication management plans were able to be undertaken, along with other clinical pharmacy
responsibilities. This increased the risk that hospitals in the Local Health District were not meeting
the National Accreditation Standards for Medication Safety. In future, a more balanced approach to
vaccination strategy is needed and less 'top down' decision making on workforce decisions is
necessary to ensure other healthcare risks are not increased for patients.

Pandemic Preparedness Plan
Many of the government's decisions were not evidenced based and went against the national
pandemic plan that was already in place prior to Covid. Rather than implementing strategies that
were evidence based and part of the national pandemic plan, the actions implemented were those
of an authoritarian regime with complete disregard for other health impacts. Lockdowns and masks
mandates were not evidenced based and the elderly and young were especially impacted by
government decisions. Elderly patients such as my        were even told by his GP if he developed
Covid type symptoms, not to attend to any GP but just call an ambulance and go to a hospital. This is
disproportionate advice. It does not help the patient understand what to do to prevent hospital
admission and only adds to the burden on the hospital system.

Thank you for consideration of this submission. I trust it assists in providing a better understanding of
issues and leads to a more comprehensive inquiry and Royal Commission, so such mismanagement
of public health issues and abuse of human rights never occurs again in future.



Yours Sincerely,
