 A Submission to the Australian Government Office of the Prime minister
                       and Cabinet Covid Inquiry

An agreement was made with Pfizer, among others, by the Australian Federal
Government to indemnify them against possible injuries caused by their mRNA gene
therapy 'vaccine'.
(Note: 'gene therapy' was the term used in Moderna's initial EUA application in the
U.S. for use of their version of the mRNA gene therapy 'vaccine'.)
Pfizer has been known to mislead the public when promoting their products, and were
charged with criminal and civil offences asserting that they illegally promoted uses of
four of their drugs, in approximately 2009, found guilty, and ordered to pay US$2.3
billion to resolve the allegations.
See:     https://abcnews.go.com/Business/pfizer-fined-23-billion-illegal-marketing-off-
label/story?id=8477617
From the last paragraph in the ABC (U.S.) article (link above), Pfizer would appear to
be recidivistic liers when it comes to the promotion of their products.
Why did the Australian Federal Government sign an indemnity agreement with this
known (since at least 2009) criminal organisation?

An inquiry is an insufficient investigative tool to discover the truth in this situation.

A full Royal Commission is required to fully investigate what happened and why.

Why, for example, was the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic
Influenza ignored when the pandemic broke? And who was it who made the decision
to do the opposite of the Plan, which prophetically described why all of the actions
that the Government did take would not work and would cause hardship?

It is also necessary to investigate, and report fully on at least the following:
     The vaccine procurement process and the secret vaccine contracts made.
     The vaccine mandates, which suppressed individual informed consent, and human
     rights, and the later denial that the 'gene therapy vaccines' were mandated.
     The vaccine injuries that have occurred.
     Mask mandates and lockdowns, both of which have been scientifically verified as
     being useless in controlling/suppressing viral spread. (Scientific research showing
     that masks don't stop viral spread go back more than twenty years - those that
     go back beyond the last few years investigated the spread of flu virus, and evidence
     from the U.S. shows that, when comparing those states that enforced lockdowns,
     and those that didn't show that each state experienced comparable viral spread.)
     Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block
     infection and transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and deaths and
     gaslighting of the injured and the families and friends of those who died.
     The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the
     vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession.
