                                                              Tony Maddem


                                                               Ph:



December 6, 2023

Dear Members of the Panel / Committee,

Firstly, I feel that this “Inquiry” is just an excuse for the Australian Prime
Minister, Mr Anthony Albanese to try and^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Hon the
former Australian Prime Minister - Mr Scott Morrison.

I also feel that this inquiry will be a massive waste of tax payers’ money for the
benefit of a bunch of lawyers involved and other over paid “council / board
members / chairperson / advisors.

Issues that I had with this covid issue was the time that it took for the Australian
government to shut down people arriving from china where this virus originated
and the poor attitude of state governments closing borders - particularly
Queensland and Victoria. I was absolutely disgusted to see countless news
stories of people not allowed to attend loved ones funerals, get medical
treatment, or be with dying family members, meanwhile those who are rich like
celebrities and family members of a large trucking company were allowed to do
whatever they want. I was extremely upset to see a young woman from
Canberra forced to wear a full PPE suit to view her father’s body and not be
allowed to be with her family. The Queensland Premier - Ms Annastacia
Palaszczuk conduct was^^^^^H through this whole pandemic - keeping
everyone else out, but she went swanning off on holidays to Japan to the
Olympics and I’m sure had a
Forer Prime Minister Scott Morrison was free to fly between Canberra and his
family in Sydney when he wanted for.....fathers day, while many other fathers
were not able to return home to their families due to being stuck in another
state.

In 2020,1 was able to take my family to Queensland after spending over 1 hour
waiting for a covid test before leaving. When I arrived, I had to wait in line for
over 5 hours with my children to get another covid test in Queensland - the next
day the government scrapped this rule.


Living on a state border, I regularly had to travel between NSW and Victoria
sometimes 3 times a day. Waiting to show these stupid pieces of paper with
permission to travel from 1 state to other often added 40 mins to the journey.
I’ve had a simpler process crossing international borders.

Former Victorian          (premier) Daniel Andrews was extremely unfair in
the way he kept Victoria in lockdown for the time that he did

^^■it felt like living in a prison at times. His obsession with face masks was
a problem also and these in many situations, such as walking out in the open
away from others made wearing face masks unnecessary - he wasn’t even able
to follow this rule.

Australian state governments went into a panic over Covid and wasted billions
of dollars on it. They did a good job with vaccination mandates though and this
led to Covid being what it is today - just like a cold for most people, but the
Australian Government did a very poor job in getting vaccinations available to
Australians - they were offered vaccinations early into the pandemic.

On a personal note, some close friends were on a cruise on the^^^^^^^H
last July / August. They both got Covid,^^Jwas taken off the ship and taken
to the                         despite also having a milder covid, and dementia
was not allowed off the ship, despite appeals from his own doctor who had
known him for 30 years.        spent 3 days wandering the ship looking for^H
and died alone - his family did not get to say goodbye to him. Their daughter
thought she was going to end up losing both parents.

To sum things up this Covid pandemic was a panic. It brought out the
           in state governments and the inability for the federal government to
act appropriately. The Australian Defence force personnel should have been
used immediately to deal with issues, the Federal Government should have been
responsible for dealing with this pandemic - not different states slamming their
doors shut and dealing with it in different ways. This is what cost jobs and
money.
The Australian Government gave billions of dollars to big businesses and
             | CEOs like Alan Joyce used the money to justify their own
massive bonuses and                Australian workers by sacking them and
hiring low paid agency workers.

There needs to be a revamp of powers between state and federal governments.
In the future if there is a pandemic or national crisis - the Federal Government
should make all decisions and have total control over managing the situation.
As usual, everyday Australians were not looked after in this - governments
were just interested in looking after big businesses and scoring points against
each other.




Tony Maddem
