I am a 69 year old woman living in regional NSW. I have looked on in horror and complete
disgust at the Government's Covid-19 response. I believe the Commonwealth and the State
Governments' responses will go down as the most shameful, harmful period in our Nation's
history.

There were many harms caused to the Australian people during this time - and many are
still suffering - but I will mainly concentrate on one of those harms here. I believe the single
most egregious action taken against the Australian people was the mandating of an
experimental mRNA gene based injection - falsely called a vaccine. This technology had
NEVER before been used in humans - having failed all previous animal studies - and people
were told that if they didn't get injected with this trial drug, they would lose their
livelihoods, which, as we know, many did. Many of these brave, principled people
consequently lost their homes.

Still today, there are countless Australians in their thousands who are prevented from
working in the profession they trained for, because of these mandates. Such a tragic loss of
talent - for them and for the community!! Thousands of Health workers in NSW and
Victoria - nurses, doctors, paramedics, aged care and disability workers, psychologists, allied
health workers and so many more, are prevented from working, while the Health and
hospital systems in these states crumble under the weight of staff shortages, while people
die waiting for ambulances and children die in hospitals for lack of staff and proper care.
This was reported on the front page of the Age recently.
Why mandate a product when it is known not to stop infection, transmission, hospitalisation
or death from Covid?? It is utter insanity - and worse!

I will use the term Government to mean both the Commonwealth Government and the
State Governments - because both are culpable. The Commonwealth found it politically
convenient to blame the States, but the Federal Government could have overridden the
States and prohibited all mandates with the stroke of a pen.

The Government mandated a product, a novel technology, which had been improperly
tested for only 8 weeks!! Normally a drug or vaccine undergoes 8-10 years of testing
before it can be approved.

The deaths and injuries from this Covid-19 injection have far exceeded the deaths and
injuries for ALL other vaccines combined over the last 30 years. This is an undisputed FACT.

      knew of 1,223 deaths in the first 10 weeks of the rollout and 42,086 adverse event
reports. In contrast, the Swine Flu vaccine was withdrawn after 50 reported deaths.

The pain and suffering caused by these Covid injections and the mandating of them, is
incalculable. A Royal Commission is needed into this issue alone!
I never thought I would witness the Australian government forcing it's own citizens to take a
medication - a medication that they knew for a fact was going to cause deaths and serious
injuries to a certain percentage of the population. They saw the data. Is that why Federal
parliamentarians exempted themselves from having to play Russian Roulette with this
drug??

And while they exempted themselves, so many Australians were forced to take this drug,
aka vaccine, against their will, just so that they could feed their families and keep a roof over
their heads. And tragically, so many who were forced to take the injection in order to keep
their jobs, have been so badly damaged by it, that they are no longer able to work now
anyway.

The Government's response? - is to refuse to compensate most of those injured by the very
product that it mandated! Unconscionable!

I have read many many hundreds of heart-breaking vaccine injury testimonies.
Think of the littl^^^^^^^^J who is afflicted witl^^^^^^J after being jabbed, or the

little                                              . . or the littlewho suffered a
                         following his 'vaccination'. . These are just 3 of the many children
recorded in the TGA's DAEN database. There are so many Australian children now who will
have heart conditions - and other medical conditions for life, because of an injection that
they Never needed! This is tragic! Imagine if it was your child! There have been 9 reported
deaths of children - but we know that this number is way underreported.

In addition to forcing an unsafe product onto it's people, the Australian Government
prohibited the use of life-saving drugs and nutrients to be used as prophylactics and
treatments for Covid - such as Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine, Vitamin C, Vitamin D and
Zinc, among many others. This is unforgivable! The substances I have just named were the
very treatments given to the citizens of Uttar Pradesh in India - which eradicated Covid-19 in
that State with a population of 240 million. Those substances were banned in Australia!

The Australian Governments - Federal and State, trampled over the Human Rights of it's
citizens in so many ways during this time. Others will cover the cruelty and the harms
caused by the lockdowns - the inhumanity of hospital measures which prevented people
from being with dying loved ones, the destruction of businesses, the loss of homes, the
break-up of families, the mental health issues now being experienced by so many, especially
children. The list of Government abuses is long.

And all of this destruction, suffering, vaccine induced injury and death, for a virus that
almost all people had a 99.7% and greater, chance of surviving. It affected almost
exclusively, the elderly and frail living with several comorbidities, as it still does.

We must ensure that this Never happens again! The Government must -

Listen to all experts without prejudice and with an open mind. If the Government had have
listened to those advocating for the use of Ivermectin, for example, thousands of lives
would have been saved - both from Covid itself and from vaccine injury and death. I
recommend the book by lung and ICU specialist - Dr                   'The War on Ivermectin -
The Medicine that Saved millions and Could have Ended the Pandemic'.

Not censor those medical experts who do not agree with the Government's narrative.
Scientific discussion and debate must be allowed. This will ensure the best outcomes for
humanity.

Uphold Human Rights. The human right to bodily autonomy and informed consent must be
sacrosanct. This was always the foundation of medical ethics, but the Government swept
that aside with no regard or respect.
I, along with millions of other Australians now have a profound distrust - and disrespect, of
Government. If the right to determine what is put into our bodies is lost, we will be little
more than cattle to Governments - and God forbid, to any centralised world bureaucracy.
Remember that your children, grandchildren and future generations of Australians would be
affected by this loss.

Laws must be passed that protect this most fundamental Human Right from ever being
abused again.

Also, I urge the Federal Government to hold a Royal Commission as promised, into the Covid
response. If you were serious about learning from your mistakes, you would. A light must be
shone on all of the measures taken by the State Governments as well as by the Federal
Government and examined thoroughly.        The Australian people deserve no less.
