The handling of the pandemic was the greatest show of state and federal government over-reach, as well
as showing a complete disregard for our inalienable rights to freedom and self determination.

Quarantine is the isolating of infected humans, animals, or objects to prevent the spread of disease.
Locking down healthy people, whilst systematically stripping away our human rights, goes against our
constitution, and it failed to provide any benefit to the people of Australia. Closing the states and
territories, and the country in general, created massive trauma and mental anguish: killing off of
thousands of small businesses, people dying alone in hospitals/nursing homes/interstate, whilst family
members are left mentally tortured, medical services for all non covid related illnesses decimated...and I
could go on and on...and all for nothing because lockdowns did not and do not work.

Forcing untested, experimental mrna injections on people... and yes, mandating no jab no job or no jab
no entry to society/venues/etc is forcing! I! We have the inalienable right to always decided for ourselves
what is right for ourselves (as in: what we will or won't put in our bodies). It has now been proven that
these mrna injections did not stop the spread, did not stop the jabbed from catching anything, and that
there are numerous injuries and deaths from the covid 19 mrna injections.

ALL federal, state and territory governments must be held to a high account for their decisions that were
based on misinformation and disinformation from the WHO, UN, WEF, as well as the governments of the
US, Canada, and the UK. Nothing short of a full independent inquiry into both the federal and state
responses will be acceptable and those at the top need to be fully held accountable.

I do not support the WHO pandemic proposal for future pandemics as they are an unelected foreign
corporation that should never be given opportunity to dictate to our nation on any level, at any time.

Should any pandemic situation arise in the future, those in political positions need to understand that
we will not stand for a repeat of the past three years. Mask mandates, lockdowns, forced experimental
injections, and any further loss of any human rights is and will be unconstitutional. Australian
government (state and federal) had an opportunity to stand separate and do right by it's people, and
they failed.
