•   We were told through the government owned media^^Bthat it would take 2 weeks to flatten
    the curve but it ended up taking 2 years! PRETTY LONG CURVE!!!
•   The media non-stop tried to brainwash people about the vaccine uptake and how many died. It
    went on non stop for 2 years - even with music stations 1 ike^^^H
•        Not allowing people to come home from overseas is a crime. It’s human rights abuse.
•   Scott Morrison closed the borders and attempted to bribe people with money that were
    unemployed. We were referred to overseas as the “hermit kingdom.”
•   It should be up to the individual to mask up or get a vaccine. Nothing should be forced or used
    in coercion.
•   I have very little faith and trust in police and the military that was called in (which is
    unconstitutional) during the supposed “covid emergency!”
•   I had very little fear of dying throughout the so-called “pandemic” because there was a 99%
    chance that you would survive! I had covid and survived! I was more worried about
    government tyranny than getting the virus!
•   I am sick of so-called^^^^^| leaders like Scott Morrison for closing the national borders
    and letting state dictator leaders close theirs. It was extremely evil and and unconstitutional.
•   I was saddened by what happened in Victoria and I have basically banned myself from ever
    going there. Melbourne was one of the lockdown cities in the world!
•        Masks do not prevent viruses.
•   Hydroxychloroquine was ignored as a remedy to covid and mocked because of Donald Trump. I
    think that is extremely childish. Ivermectin was mocked as some “horse dewormer!” They give
    these tablets overseas all the time in countries like Mexico.
•   Sweden did not lose that many people from the pandemic and virtually did nothing with
    preventative measures.
•   They made out we needed a lot of immigrants before covid and now but it’s funny how during
    the pandemic we somehow coped without the ridiculous number of 100’s of thousands coming
    in. We shouldn’t even let in 50,000 - we should rely on ourselves!
•   People suffered, died and killed themselves when the “pandemic” was on in Australia.
    Victorians suffered brute force at the hands of police - a man had his face smashed in the
    ground at Flinders Station (I believe.) Old woman was sprayed at a protest in Victoria, and
    Rubber bullets were used at the Shrine of Remembrance! They wanted a place of refuge! It’s
    human rights abuse! My trust in police is lost forever!
•   I’ve leamt during the “pandemic” when there are things going wrong, the police won’t hurt you,
    the government will give unconstitutional “mandates.” Even the army will go against you and
    all I had was my belief in God! So-called               like Dan Andrews who was premier at
    the time, and Scott Morrison turned against Australians as well as^^^^J ones!
•   The convoy to Canberra was met with arrogance. Millions showed up and there was a big
    demand to see the Governor General and he did not want to front the public! The contempt for
    the public was huge!
•   I no longer believe Australia is a nation. Our “leaders” are no different to dictators in other
    countries and pretend it’s a democracy.
•   It says on the passport that a citizen has a right to fly by her/his majesty. Scott Morrison broke
    the constitution by making Australia a prison. Clive Palmer correctly at the time said closing the
    borders was going against the constitution.
•   All police officers want to do is spray at civilians or use rubber bullets. Maybe the bullets will
    be real next time there is a protest. They have too many powers and hate the citizens! They have
    an “us vs them” mentality. I will never call them up again. The hate me and all Australians and
        just love having guns and pepper sprays and the power trip that goes with that. They love
        citizens being denied self defense.
    •        A lot of government officials during the pandemic were revealed to
                          So they were not working for the interests of Australians. That’s why Scott
        Morrison is not PM, Dan Andrews is no longer a premier. I think all the Premiers of the states
        resigned.
    •   People lost jobs for not taking the vaccine. It could have been cured with hydroxy or Ivermectin
        but instead a deadly and dangerous vaccine was rolled out that had massive side effects such as
        blood clots and causing people to have major heart problems like pericarditis - we’d never seen
        so many heart attacks from people who were young in our lives before but yet there was
        massive coercion from state premiers to take it and apparently that was the way out of
        lockdowns.
    •   Every day or week there were different rules and regulations which were purely arbitrary by the
        government like as if the virus was some vicious animal that attacked certain areas on certain
        days!
    •        Everything that was forced onto us in the “pandemic” was unconstitutional.
    •   It was quite sickening that babies were forced to have it despite how dangerous the vaccine was.
        It was horrendous that family members couldn’t visit their loved ones in retirement villages!
    •   It sickened me that politicians were exempt from taking the dangerous vaccine! They have a
        high opinion of themselves and think very low of ordinary TAX PAYING AUSTRALIANS!
        Everyone is a tax payer because of GST!
    •   The makers of Pfizer should be held accountable. There are countless journals and concerns
        from doctors online that were concerned about the rollout of this deadly vaccine. Many people
        were banned from X (known at the time as Twitter.) Just for expressing a view! Doctors who
        went against Satanic government state “orders” were arrested. Protesters were sent to prison! I
        never saw such aregime in my whole life! I remember at the time people were
        saying they escaped communist countries to live in Australia and felt sad for being here!

I’ll never forget how Novak Djokovic was treated. I don’t think Serbia owes Australia anything. I doubt
that Novak Djokovic will come to Australia when his tennis career is finished. I’ll personally
understand it but will think it’s understandable. When Mark Whalberg came to promote his burger
chain, no one cared! It’s sad and sickening the double standards! No one should have been banned
for coming or going! Health should be a personal choice!

The government wants to forget about all this and forget about how modem Australia was started by
the British and doesn’t care about demographics and people who associate with the older meaning of
being Australian and people who’s ancestors were responsible for building the Federation of Australia.
It’s a globalists,Albanese is getting immigration
higher than normal to make up for the “pandemic” when hardly anyone came through the borders . It’s
^^^^No one got a say on immigration or what we should do in the pandemic. It was all done by
stealth. Severe hatred was shown by police. I saw the police in my street and was so shocked and
disgusted. Australian government obviously hates Australian citizens. We’re going downhill as a
nation.

Finally, I found out during lockdowns with the Great Australia Party that our constitution has been
usurped.
