I write this as an individual who was adversely affected by the way the Commonwealth and State
Governments handled the COVID-19 situation. In considering the scope of the Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry terms of reference, there were several issues with how Australia responded to
real and perceived health threats of recent events.

1. Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination
Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting
responses to COVID-19.
Both state and federal governments exhibited gross mismanagement and negligence in how they responded.
The TGA banned re-purposing readily available medicines in favour of a novel and under-tested approach,
granting “provisional approval” and sidestepping many established checks and balances in the process.

2. Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical
supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).
The health response measures, which often included questionable (and often violent) law enforcement
tactics, rapidly changing restrictions and lockdowns, and border closures often resulting in grief for others
wishing to visit friends and family (including missing critical moments particularly in the case of dying or
sick loved ones), caused great anguish and community distrust in law enforcement. Countries such as
Sweden avoided many COVID-related deaths and illnesses without such extreme and unwarranted measures.
          There was unclear information (and some which was later proven to be wrong and misleading) from
the mainstream media and government officials alike, but rather than officials attempting to correct or clarify
that information, focused its efforts on attacking and vilifying anyone who was attempting to make sense of
all this and provide alternative explanations.

3. Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example mental health
and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive health measures). Support for
industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport issues, addressing labour
shortages, and support for specific industries). Financial support for individuals (including income support
payments).
They say prevention is the best medicine, and this is no exception. None of these supports would have been
necessary had the measures implemented been reasonable or proportionate. The fact that this is even a
question suggests that measures were neither reasonable or proportionate.
        From my own experience, such supports were either nonexistent, insufficient or unacceptable. There
was no support to people who lost their job because of vaccine mandates, and remained unemployed due to
many other employers mandating vaccination as a condition of employment. Many state governments had
premiers and public health officials acting in a capacity akin to that of a dictator, mandating masks and
vaccines in certain settings where there was no evidence that this was even necessary or reasonable.


As per the above, Australia’s response leaves much to be desired. Indeed, this consultation process itself
leaves much to be desired. Many (including myself) were not made aware of this occurring until the deadline
was fast approaching. It was quietly extended with the following message hidden within the description “As
we have received a number of requests for extensions, the submissions portal will remain open over the
Christmas - New Year period. ” with no real deadline attached, while people were likely on holiday or taking
time off. This is not acceptable, and is inadequate in a consultation purporting to be of significant importance
of scope and nature. No attempt has been made to make affected individuals or organisations aware of the
consultation period or processes.

Page 1 of 1                                                                               Version 0.5 (2/1/24)
