                                                                                                              CEO
ANZCA                                                                                      Australian and New Zealand
 FPM                                                                                          College of Anaesthetists



   30 January 2024
   Ms Robyn Kruk AO, Chair
   Professor Catherine Bennett, Member
   Dr Angela Jackson, Member

   Via email: https://www.pmc.gov.au/covid-19-response-inquiry/consultation



   Dear Ms Kruk
   Commonwealth Government COVID-19 response inquiry
   Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback on the above inquiry. The Australian and New
   Zealand College of Anaesthetists (ANZCA) is one of the largest specialist medical colleges in
   Australia and New Zealand, and the region's foremost authority on anaesthesia, pain medicine
   and perioperative medicine. ANZCA is responsible for training, assessing and setting standards for
   all specialist anaesthetists and specialist pain medicine physicians in Australia and New Zealand.
   Servicing around 6800 specialist anaesthetists, 1800 anaesthetists in training, 500 specialist pain
   medicine physicians and 100 pain medicine trainees.
   COVID-19 pandemic and specialist anaesthetists and pain medicine physicians
   The contribution of our specialist anaesthetists and pain medicine physicians following major
   events and disasters is well recognised. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic anaesthetists were
   integral to the medical care of those affected and to keeping other patients (including those
   requiring planned or emergency surgery) and staff safe. Being experts in airway management and
   resuscitation, anaesthetists were at the forefront of the COVID-19 pandemic from the beginning.
   Medical colleges, ANZCA included, provided vital clinical leadership through participation in expert
   advisory and working groups, and the timely production of internationally informed, updated clinical
   guidance and local, specific, research.
   Key health response measures undertaken by ANZCA through the COVID-19 pandemic
   Cancellation of non-urgent elective surgery
   ANZCA recognised the importance of collaborating with other key medical stakeholders,
   particularly colleagues in intensive care medicine, healthcare providers across the public and
   private healthcare sectors, Australian and New Zealand governments, health departments and
   health administrators to collectively prepare for, and coordinate, the enormous challenges to our
   healthcare system. This included supporting decisions around limiting or adjusting the timing and
   volume of non-emergency elective surgery to focus only on the patients in greatest need.
   It was vital that the integrity of the clinical workforce was preserved, as the forefront of the
   response to this crisis. This included allowing time to prepare anaesthetists for the specific issues
   relating to COVID-19, to allow their deployment to other areas of the hospital, including intensive
   care, ensuring the preservation of vital reserves of medicines, shortages of critical equipment such
   as ventilators and single use airway management apparatus and other important hospital
   resources and bed capacity, and avoiding unnecessarily putting patients and staff at risk of
   infection all created considerable difficulties. ANZCA made multiple media releases on this issue'.




                                                                                                        ANZCA House
ANZCA
 FPM


   Working closely with the government
   President at the time of the outbreak Dr Rod Mitchell established direct lines of communication
   with Australian government officials, in particular the Deputy Chief Medical Officer, Dr Nick
   Coatsworth and Chair of the Infection Control Expert Group, Professor Lyn Gilbert.
   ANZCA also negotiated the introduction of temporary COVID-19 MBS telehealth item numbers
   with Medicare. Initially anaesthetists were excluded and while this was rectified fairly quickly,
   sorting out appropriate item numbers of specialist pain medicine physicians went on for months
   with many practice managers from pain clinics querying which number they were to use.
   The college sought to engage constructively with governments at all levels to inform and contribute
   to the development of information and actions to address the spread and treatment of the
   pandemic. This was evidenced by ANZCA fellows' involvement in national expert advisory groups,
   such as the National COVID-19 Clinical Evidence Taskforce Steering Committee, National Clinical
   Taskforce, Co-chair of the Australian Infection Prevention and Control Panel, and the COVID 19
   Victorian Perioperative Consultative group and COVID-19 Critical Care Coordination Collaborative.
   Supply chain impacts
   The college responded quickly to concerns about supply chains and drug shortages. For example,
   it expedited amending the clinical advice in the PS51 Guidelines for the Safe Management and
   Use of Medications in Anaesthesia" to allow for safe ampoule splitting in certain circumstances.
   The college also moved speedily to develop and approve a COVID-19 airway management
   emergency response standard.'"
   College exams and training
   Relevant education and training groups were formed to consider all implications associated with
   ANZCA training and exams. Some of these included:
       •   Examination Contingency Planning Group to ensure that standards must not lapse.
       •   Tech-Assisted Examinations Working Group to safely hold relevant exams online.
       •   Establishing COVID-19 webpages for trainees and supervisors - including a series of exam
           FAQs. ANZCA introduced exemptions and rules recognising that trainees may not be able
           to adequately prepare for, and attend, exams (due to redeployment within hospitals, effects
           on volume of practice and the cancellation of key courses).
       •   ANZCA Council recognised training time for trainees whose progression had been
           interrupted by exam delays, not penalising those who withdrew from exams, and allowing
           additional exam attempts for those who withdrew or failed.
       •   The college developed multiple webinars on exam support and information.
   Dynamic shifts to college governance and processes (sample only)
       •   A COVID-19 Clinical Expert Advisory Group (CEAG) was formed to provide urgent guidance
           on howto safely manage patients while protecting anaesthetists and other members of the
           team. CEAG comprised clinical expertise relating to the pandemic, each jurisdiction,
           Australian Society of Anaesthetists and New Zealand Society of Anaesthetists.
           The result was the ANZCA Statement on Personal Protective Equipment'v and its
           accompanying flowchart. CEAG also established an ANZCA Library Guidev containing
           curated evidence-based information for time-poor anaesthetists. Over time this evolved into
           a fully-fledged resource guide which, in addition to providing key clinical information, also
           provided a conduit for newly published research, information on the numerous knowledge
           hubs created by research journal publishers and links to local, country-specific and global
           metrics.
       •   The ANZCA Safety and Quality Committee provided guidance on the college's strategic
           response to the pandemic and associated hazardous threats to members, with a view to
           embedding lessons learned into professional documents and operating procedures.


                                                                                                Australian and New Zealand
                                                                                                   College of Anaesthetists
                                                                                                   & Faculty of Pain Medicine
ANZCA
 FPM


       •   A Governance Executive Advisory Group closely monitored the college's financial position,
           with scrutiny of investments due to the volatility of the global market.
       •   Clear, credible communication was a vital component of the management of the response.
           Sources of trusted and empathetic information were essential. At a time of uncertainty, fear,
           conflicting advice and an international media storm that affected everyone, having the
           college leadership provide the support and resources required to guide fellows and trainees
           was seen as critical. When combined with the communications from political leadership and
           various government departments who scrambled to implement their pandemic plans, having
           access to anaesthesia-specific advice and support was much needed. This included:
              - The Executive Leadership Team holding daily video conferences to address all college
                and faculty operational requirements, with the president and vice-president joining when
                possible. These meetings worked to meet the immediate operational requirements of the
                college and to support fellows, trainees and specialist international medical graduates
                (SIMGs).
              - Establishing a college COVID-19 email inbox for fellows/trainee queries. In the first
                few months of the pandemic the group considered over 200 queries from fellows and
                trainees.
              - Up to date and regular communications via a) ANZCA website content - news,
                trainee info and clinical resources, b) weekly/monthly president's college-wide emails
                to keep fellows, trainees and SIMGs updated, and c) daily/weekly/monthly COVID-19
                summary to ANZCA Council and the Executive Leadership Team.
              - ANZCA Bulletin''1 feature spreads and updates in monthly ANZCA E-Newsletters.
   Planning for a pandemic - lessons learnt
       •   Medical colleges enjoy a high level of trust from their medical communities and members
           and so can assist with communication and controlling misinformation.
       •   Clinically, there was a real need for more effective liaison between official sources of
           information and other stakeholders. ANZCA became a key representative voice that
           communicated with other colleges, government (including chief medical officers across
           Australia), media and practitioners. We needed to minimise the number of "representatives",
           and ANZCA established itself as the primary source of communication. This allowed for
           clearer and cleaner messaging.
       •   A coordinated approach through formal critical care liaison with the relevant colleges and
           societies involving anaesthesia/ICU was crucial. This allowed for a unified and standardised
           approach to issues such as airway management and resuscitation.
       •   ANZCA (and other colleges) have substantial international and national networks of experts
           and leaders in every field and should be regarded as a vital resource to quickly tap into in
           the future.
       •   The need for different sizing and fit testing for PPE - fit-testing as part of employee on­
           boarding, and regular re-checks. In addition, expiry date review of PPE supplies and
           sufficiency of just-in-time ordering, especially during a time of global shortages, reduced
           importation capacity and logistics difficulties.
       •   Investment in remote patient consults/telehealth in preassessment clinics.
       •   Use of simulation to train for disaster scenarios.
       •   Improved craft-group collaboration (anaesthesia/intensive care unit/emergency department).
       •   Re-design of hospital intensive care and operation room facilities to accommodate
           hazardous patients in isolation.
       •   Enhanced wellbeing and mentor networks that are interdisciplinary.



                                                                                                  Australian and New Zealand
                                                                                                     College of Anaesthetists
                                                                                                     & Faculty of Pain Medicine
ANZCA
 FPM


   Overall, the pandemic highlighted the need for the health and medical community, including
   ANZCA and other specialist medical colleges, to continue to work collaboratively with each other
   and government and its agencies to make evidence-based yet timely decisions for the overall
   health, wellbeing and safety of the public.
   Thank you again for the opportunity to contribute to the inquiry. If you require further information
   about any of the issues raised in this submission, please contact me atM


   Yours sincerely




   Mr Nigel Fidgeon
   Chief Executive Officer




   ' https://www.anzca.edu.au/resources/media-releases/2020-media-releases/elective-surgerv-should-focus-only-on-patients-
   in.pdf
   https://www.anzca.edu.au/resources/media-releases/2020-media-releases/ioint-statement-from-medical-colleqes.pdf
   https://www.anzca.edu.au/resources/media-reieases/2020-media-releases/ioint-statement-from-medical-colleqes-
   260320.pdf
   https://www.anzca.edu.au/resources/media-releases/2020-media-releases/1704-ioint-anzca-racs-elective-surqery.pdf
   " https://www.anzca.edu.au/resources/professional-documents/quideiines/ps51bp-quideline-for-the-safe-manaqement-and-
   use-o
    https://www.anzca.edu.au/qetattachment/2103e2ab-ab39-4595-85c1-59c57a40dff1/Appendix-23-COVID-19-airway-
   management
   iv https://www.anzca.edu.au/resources/professional-documents/statements/anzca-covid-ppe-statement.pdf
   v https://libguides.anzca.edu.au/home
   vi https://www.anzca.edu.au/safetv-advocacv/advocacv/colleqe-publications




                                                                                                                Australian and New Zealand
                                                                                                                   College of Anaesthetists
                                                                                                                   & Faculty of Pain Medicine
