Submission and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

 1. Australia updated its Pandemic Plan in August 2019. However, when Covid happened,
    the Morrison and then the Albanese governments did not follow that plan. What
    happened was not in that plan. Instead, we had massive lockdowns, school and places of
    worship closures, mass vaccinations and masking, to name a few measures. None of
    these measures were in the plan. My question for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel
    is, why did we not follow the plan? How much money was spent on the Pandemic Plan?
    And was it money wasted? Might we want to consider following it if faced with a
    pandemic in the future? I think this is important as the measures that we did follow,
    based on advice from the World Health Organisation (WHO) clearly failed and we face
    a broken and impoverished society because of it.
 2. It would be clear to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel by now that Covid was
    engineered as a result of gain-of-function research. This was clearly documented in an
    article in the Australian by journalist Sharri Markson who provided proof that Covid
    was engineered as a result of gain-of-function research funded through America’s
    National Institutes of Health and its former director Anthony Fauci. The research was
    conducted in China because it was out of reach of America’s regulations, and it was
    cheaper. Gain-of-function research is supposedly so that health authorities can create
    new viruses and then an antidote or a vaccine so that if nature supposedly produces that
    virus, there will be a vaccine ready to go.
 3. It concerns me that both the Morrison and Albanese governments have provided vaccine
    indemnities since the Covid outbreak. This means the bill to compensate those who are
    harmed by these products falls on taxpayers, not the pharmaceutical industry. There are
    400 new MRNA vaccines under development to replace the off-patent conventional
    vaccines. Responsibility for harm from these products must rest with the makers, not the
    public. The emerging adverse events and deaths related to these productions is
    overwhelming and must be objectively examined and not simply dismissed. Can the
    Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel please ensure this issue to properly scrutinised and the
    makers of these products be held accountable? What is in the contracts with the makers
    of these products that every Australian should know about?
 4. What are the supports that are being considered for people impacted by Covid-19 and
    for those that have been harmed by the products I mention in point 3? Clearly, these
    products are harmful. And could the Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel please ensure
    that the makers of these harmful products be held accountable for funding these
    supports? and I put it to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel that these supports are
    clearly examined and explained to all Australians.

Every Australian would be awaiting answers to these questions and more. Thank you for
reading and publishing my submission,

Bridget Green
