                       ^ie R°yai
                       Australian &
                                          Your
                   T   New Zealand        Health
                       College of         '"Mind




      Australian Commonwealth Government
                COVID-19 Response Inquiry

                             December 2023




   Advocacy to
improve access
     and equity



                                       www.ranzcp.org
                                      I 68 000 439 047
Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists submission
COVID-10 Response Inquiry


About the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists
The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists (RANZCP) is a membership organisation
that prepares doctors to be medical specialists in the field of psychiatry, supports and enhances clinical
practice, advocates for people affected by mental illness and advises governments on mental health care.
The RANZCP is the peak body representing psychiatrists in Australia and New Zealand and as a bi­
national college has strong ties with associations in the Asia-Pacific region. The RANZCP has more than
8000 members including more than 5,800 qualified psychiatrists and almost 2,200 members, who are
training to qualify as psychiatrists. Psychiatrists are clinical leaders in the provision of mental health care in
the community and use a range of evidence-based treatments to support a person in their journey of
recovery.

Introduction
The RANZCP welcomes the opportunity to provide a submission to the Australian Commonwealth
Government’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry. The RANZCP’s response is informed by its recent
submissions to the Australian National Audit Office’s (ANAO) audit of the Australian Department f Health
Management of Telehealth Service Expansi i, the Australian Select Committee on COVID-19, and the
feedback of RANZCP’s expert committees. The RANZCP’s submission reflects the Inquiry’s Ter s f
     snce and focus on the ability for the Government to:
    •      Anticipate
    •      Adapt
    •      Respond
to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.
Opportunities for systems to more effectively ANTICIPATE
The COVID-19 pandemic demonstrated the impact pandemics have on the community’s mental health and
on mental health services.[1,2] The RANZCP stresses the importance of the inclusion of expertise of
psychiatrists and mental healthcare service providers to any proposed body established to improve the
preparedness of Australia for future pandemics.
The inclusion of mental health expertise to a preparedness body will support the country’s response to both
the physical and mental health challenges of future pandemics. The RANZCP urges that actions and
investment are included to support the population’s mental health.
The RANZCP welcomed the commitment of the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic
Response Plan to prioritise timely data and information, to identify further evidence-based interventions to
support the mental health of the Australian community during and after the pandemic. The preparedness
body should ensure there is an ongoing analysis of evidence-based interventions that can protect the
mental health of the population through pandemics and the economic conseguences of pandemics.
It is important that mental wellbeing and suicide prevention are national health priorities during the
preparedness and planning for future pandemics. Suicide prevention efforts must recognise the impacts
brought by major community crises, including COVID-19. Impacts that can include economic stress, loss
and trauma, social isolation and decreased access to mental health treatment, both during and in the
aftermath, of such events.
Future safety measures (i.e. lockdowns and mandatory guarantine) must include plans to actively address
the mental health implications and ensure there are plans to adeguately mitigate their risks. Public
health messaging must promote a balanced understanding of the mental health impacts of the pandemic
in tandem with informing the public on the rationale for the pandemic measures taken.
                                                                                                         Page 2 of 4
Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists submission
COVID-10 Response Inquiry



The RANZCP highlights the importance of investing in modern technology infrastructure in the public
mental health system, given the the increasing importance of technology as a way to communicate health
literacy, prevention, intervention assessment, therapy and administrative support, accelerated during the
COVID-19 pandemic. This should also be accompanied with continued efforts to improve digital literacy
and access to resources (internet and telephones), especially for people residing in rural areas.[3]


Opportunities for systems to more effectively ADAPT
The RANZCP has acknowledged the Australian Government’s responsiveness regarding Medicare
Benefits Scheme items to enable the use of telehealth during the COVID-19 pandemic, and ongoing. The
response allowed for the better continuity of care to critical mental healthcare services for the community.

The RANZCP highlights the importance for Government to have an agreed rapid and responsive process in
place that enables additional/alternative service modalities (e.g. telehealth) to be implemented. This will
enable proactive rather than reactive solutions to be rolled out, to the benefit of the mental health
workforce and the community.

With regard to public messaging, the RANZCP recognised the Government’s commitment to providing
updates to the public through consistent and clear messaging based on medical advice. While evidence
evolves during pandemics, the importance of clear and consistent advice to help people manage the
uncertainties in times of emergencies is critical in ensuring good outcomes.[4]

The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the workforce and resource constraints in the chronically
underfunded and stretched mental health system. The RANZCP welcomes the National Mental Health
Workforce Strategy, and the commitment from the Government to invest in attracting, training and
retaining the mental health workforce. An appropriately resources mental health system will ensure
there is capacity to meet the community demand during future pandemics.

Priority Populations
The RANZCP highlights the modest negative change in overall population mental health reported in
Australia, with significant differences between population subgroups, exaggerating existing inequities.[5]
People who experience social disadvantage are less less likely to access protective factors such as
mental health services and community cohesiveness. The RANZCP encourages the recognition of priority
populations for future vaccination roll-out plans and ensure adequate community consultation that
promotes the mental health and wellbeing of specific population groups including Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander peoples, culturally and linguistically diverse, aged care, children and people with physical
and mental health conditions.
The RANZCP recognises the efforts of the National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation
(NACCHO) along with local Indigenous community action which oversaw the protection of the Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander population from COVID-19. The RANZCP highlights the importance of taking
a ‘two-world’s approach when enacting pandemic measures including travel restrictions and vaccination
campaigns, given the impact on health and wellbeing of First Nations people.[6]

People living with serious mental illness had an increased risk of COVID-19 infection and subsequent
rates of hospitalisation, morbidity and mortality. People living with serious mental illness are more likely to
have diabetes, cardiovascular and respiratory disease. Initially, people with serious mental illness were not

                                                                                                      Page 3 of 4
Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists submission
COVID-10 Response Inquiry


considered a priority population for COVID-19 vaccine rollout, and they must be considered a priority
population in future pandemics.

The RANZCP suggests the Government consider strategies to mitigate harm to older people during
times of pandemic, without contravening the right for older persons to remain integrated in society (UN
principles for Older persons). The RANZCP highlights the inconsistency of restrictions on the movements
and freedoms in aged care facilities, particularly around visits from those providing psychosocial supports,
causing serious mental and physical health outcomes for people.

The RANZCP highlights the impact of pandemic measures on the growth and development of children.
Evidence shows there was an overarching impact on children and their parents overall, as a result of the
pandemic measures.[7] The All W also reports the impact the pandemic and the response had on social
connectedness which also declined in people aged 13-17 during the early stage of the pandemic.

Opportunities for systems to more effectively RESPOND
When responding to pandemics, it important the government consider not just the current crisis but also the
effect measures on mental health and wellbeing in a holistic way. The RANZCP highlights the impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic on the mental health workforce and recommends measures be put in place to
mitigate these risks in the future. Mental health professionals, including psychiatrists, play a key role during
crisis.

Services must be appropriately resourced to provide support to mental health professionals through a
range of evidence-informed wellness initiatives.

It must be a priority in planning for future pandemics that the Government recognises and responds to the
psychological and physical impacts of pandemics on health care workers, ensuring steps are taken to
cushion the psychiatry workforce to avoid burnout and workplace attrition.

Summary
As leaders in mental health, the RANZCP welcomes further engagement with the COVID-10 Response
Inquiry. If you have any queries regarding this submission, please contact Nicola Wright, Executive
Manager, Policy, Practice and Research Department via                                 onH

References

1.     Duden, G.S., S. Gersdorf, and K. Stengler, Global impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on mental
       health services: A systematic review. J Psychiatr Res, 2022. 154: p. 354-377.
2.     Xiong, J., et al., Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on mental health in the general population: A
       systematic review. J Affect Disord, 2020. 277: p. 55-64.
3.     Yeatman, T., et al., Equitable psychiatry, telehealth, and the COVID-19 pandemic: Analysis of
       national data. Frontiers in Public Health, 2023. 11.
4.     Brooks, S.K., et al., The psychological impact of quarantine and how to reduce it: rapid review of the
       evidence. Lancet, 2020. 395(10227): p. 912-920.
5.     Butterworth, P., et al., Effect of lockdown on mental health in Australia: evidence from a natural
       experiment analysing a longitudinal probability sample survey. The Lancet Public Health, 2022.
       7(5): p. e427-e436.
6.     Rosen AO, A. Dominos: Mental Health Impacts of Australia’s Environmental Crises. 2021; Available
       from: https://www.psychiatrictimes.com/view/dominos-mental-health-impacts-australias-
       environmental-crises .
7.     Araujo, L.A., et al., The potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on child growth and
       development: a systematic review. J Pediatr (Rio J), 2021.97(4): p. 369-377.
                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
