      Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

                                        Barry Kissane



                                      15 December 2021

I have mathematical and statistical training in each of my first two degrees (BSc
(mathematics) and BEd from the University of Western Australia) and from postgraduate
studies in both UWA and the Uni versity of Chicago, and have taught mathematics and
mathematics education in schools and universities since 1971.1 have also taught university
courses in research methods and statistics, so am well-qualified to read and interpret
statistical research studies of various kinds, including published medical research studies.
Although I hold a post of Emeritus Associate Professor of Mathematics Education of
Murdoch University, this submission is personal and is not to be interpreted as representing
the views of the University.

First term of reference (Governance ...)
The Commonwealth failed in its ready acceptance of the scale of the Covid pandemic without
due diligence to the nature and extent of the disease in Australia. Accepting the 2020 WHO
declaration of a pandemic without examining the details of the case, and the Australian
details in particular, almost certainly encouraged community anxiety and subsequent political
overreaction to the situation in Australia, with various excessive measures in different states.
Misuse of PCR testing, with scant regard for false positives, and opaque use of test settings,
was a major factor in this dereliction of duty, despite widespread discussion internationally of
the inadequacy of PCR tests as a proxy for Covid-19 infection.

Second term of reference (Key health responses ...)
The persistent classification, with Government sanction, and even advertising, of vaccines
developed by commercial companies as “safe and effective” was at no stage supported by
credible independent evidence. It appears (extraordinarily) that the descriptions of vaccines in
this way was based entirely on research conducted by the companies themselves, who have a
clear and obvious vested interest in their acceptance, or on research published by people who
had clear Conflicts of Interest, because of research and other sponsorship by pharmaceutical
companies. The Government, through its agencies such as the Commonwealth Department of
Health and the Therapeutic Goods Authority, has failed in its duty to adequately scrutinize
such claims and to obtain and publicise independent reliable information so that both decision
makers and citizens can make balanced judgements. Without such information widely
available, any notion of ‘informed consent’ to be vaccinated has no meaning. Especially
problematic, of course, is the effective mandating of vaccination for many employed people,
who risked losing their livelihoods if they did not consent or who required more adequate
independent advice before feeling able to do so.

Regarding the effectiveness of medicines, there are two well-known metrics in the
pharmaceutical industry, namely relative and absolute effectiveness, (e.g., Brown, 2021). It is
inconceivable that the TGA and Commonwealth Health Departments were not aware of both
metrics, and yet the Government tolerated the use of only one metric (relative effectiveness)
and provided no information at all in the public domain about the other metric (absolute
effectiveness). A figure of (around) 95% effective was commonly used in public health
messaging - and, it seems, still is - to support vaccination campaigns, with minimal help for
people to understand its meaning. As Brown (2021) reported, however, while the relative
effectiveness of Pfizer and Moderna vaccines from their original studies was a reassuring
95.1% and 94.1% respectively, the corresponding absolute effectiveness measures were
merely 0.7% and 1.1% respectively. Thus, being vaccinated, according to the manufacturers
themselves, reduced the chances of being infected with Covid-19 by about 1%. As Brown
(2021) notes, various organisations (including, ironically, the FDA in the USA) have noted
that it is critical for both measures to be routinely reported so that a balanced judgment
regarding benefits and risks can be attempted. It is clearly impossible for people to do this
when the benefits are inadequately described, and the Government failed completely to
ensure that its public messaging was accurate.

It is important that a lesson be learned from this failure and that any future Government
messaging regarding pharmaceutical products be required to provide both measures in an
easily understandable form for public consumption. It might be that a Number Needed to
Treat measure might be preferable to a percentage measure, which is recognisably
problematic for many people, as Gigerenzer (2006) has noted, when he observed that many
people, including physicians, were unable to adequately interpret results of mammograms,
and frequently did not understand the likelihood of extensive false positives in testing, even
when test parameters seemed to reflect sound measures because the percentages were high.
As Brown (2021) reported, the industry research from Pfizer and Moderna resulted in
vaccines for which 142 vaccinations were needed to prevent a single Pfizer infection, with
the corresponding figure for Moderna being 88. It seems likely that people might have been
less comforted by these figures than by the published figures of relative effectiveness.

To allow States to mandate vaccinations with such limited benefits and to effectively shut
down national and state economies was a massive failure of Government. To further permit
such measures to be used to support the vaccination of manifestly non-risk groups, such as
children, younger people generally and pregnant women, compounded this error. It is not
clear, because of the opacity and secrecy of communications, whether the failure resulted
from negligent advice from authorities such as the TGA and the various health departments,
Commonwealth and State, or from an inability of Ministers at the National Cabinet to
comprehend what they were being told. Regardless of the mechanism, it is critical that such a
situation not be allowed to recur in Australia.

The safety of vaccines has been regularly stressed in Government messaging of various
kinds, including public messaging. Yet adequate evidence to support this claim has not been
provided by Government, and the safety claim has not varied significantly since the
beginning of vaccination programs. Nor did it change when the Federal government changed,
suggesting that the source of the claim was from government agencies such as the TGA and
the Commonwealth Health Department, rather than solely from negligent politicians.

From the outset of the vaccine research, the study of safety has been problematic. The early
studies by vaccine manufacturers reported in-house work related to safety, and then promptly
vaccinated the Control Group, so that ongoing safety studies are simply unavailable. It is not
clear that the Australian government has established its own studies into the short and long
term effects of Covid vaccinations, with a proper Randomised Control study, or whether it
continues to rely on the advice of the manufacturers (and those they sponsor, such as
researchers or the World Health Organisation) elsewhere. In a commercialised world, there is
no justification at all for the Australian Government to rely on advice of others abroad in
regard to monitoring and safeguarding the safety of its own citizens.

Since the Covid-19 vaccines have begun to be used in Australia, regular, credible and
independent reports of increasing problems with adverse reactions to them have been
published abroad. Data on the safety or effectiveness of vaccines in Australia has been
hampered by a reluctance of authorities to publish suitable data, and there seems to be no
adequate records available for scholarly study of vaccine effects. Yet, there is clear evidence,
in Australia and abroad (but only in countries where vaccination has been extensive) of
significant excess mortality (not directly attributed to Covid-19), including national agencies
like the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Several countries have now halted vaccinations for
many groups of people, as a consequence of the reported adverse effects of vaccinati on, and
yet nothing has changed in Australia at all. A major product used in Australia, from
AstraZeneca, has long been withdrawn from use, while others are still used, and the official
message today is still that the vaccines are safe and effective. This is quite unacceptable.

Space precludes an extensive discussion here of the (now compelling) evidence that Covid-
19 vaccines are unsafe for many people. A recent Australian publication of the Australian
Medical Professionals Society (2023) has provided some 470 pages of extensive scholarly
evidence of this problem, even though the Australian Government has recently refused to
investigate it. Such published information needs to be considered by this Inquiry, while
recognising that it necessarily relies on data only up to the present time. Longer-term adverse
effects of Covid-19 vaccination need to be monitored far more effectively and systematically
than has happened to date with the Database of Adverse Event Notifications (DAEN). The
Government recently apologised to Thalidomide victims more than sixty years after
Australia’s                        drew attention to its unwanted side-effects; the Inquiry must
ensure that we do a lot better than that for the Covid-19 vaccines.

The message of ‘safe and effective’ has been routinely and loudly amplified in media reports
of various kinds, to the extent that any report in the public domain that offers an alternative
perspective, or casts any doubt on the message, is derided as ‘misinformation’ or
‘disinformation’, or both. It is quite impossible to believe that independent media agencies
have all reached the same conclusions without some kind of Orwellian influences or
coercion. If citizens such as myself can readily find extensive evidence validly questioning
both parts of the mantra of ‘safe and effective’, it is beyond comprehension that the entire
free press has not been able to do so.

So, perhaps the biggest failure of Government actions in regard to Covid-19 is the virtual
destruction of public confidence in Government itself and in the mainstream media. While,
hopefully, the immediate effects of Covid-19 on both the economy and people’s health will
dissipate in time - except for the unfortunate and growing number of people who will have
adverse reactions to their repeated vaccinations - the long-term erosion of public confidence
in once trusted agencies may well be irreversible. I hope that is not the case, and rely in part
of this Inquiry to restore some confidence.

References
Australian Medical Professionals Society (2023) Too Many Dead - An Inquiry Into Australia’s Excess
   Mortality. Canberra, AMPS. Available at https://amps.redunion.com.au/too-many-dead
Brown, R.B. (2021) Outcome Reporting Bias in COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine Clinical Trials, Medicina.
   57(3), 199; https://doi.org/10.3390/medicina57030199
Gigerenzer, G. (2002) Calculated risks. New York: Simon and Schuster.
