                                                                                21 MARCH 2022


It is a beautiful, sunny Monday here at home in                  and as the new neighbors
move in next door, I should be at school sharing my skills and passion for music and
languages.

After four years at university,^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
                            having my own children, and a lifetime of music, I have a lot to
offer the younger generation.


Due to the mandates in education I was terminated from my teaching position in January.
Despite working at my school in a specialized role for six years, building relationships with
staff, students and the community, I have been ordered not to visit campus or to talk about
my termination with anyone. It feels like I have done something terribly wrong and have
been ghosted by my colleagues and superiors - it’s as if I have actually died.

Every time I go to the shopping mall, I worry that I’ll see students or staff and not know what
to say to them.
Every time I hear a new song, I imagine performing it with the students I used to teach.
Every night I AM STILL DREAMING about being at school. Attending a meeting and being
told “you’re not supposed to be here”. Arriving unprepared for an important concert or a
class and then being told to leave or trying to sneak out. It’s a recurring nightmare.

I wish the government would PLEASE end the mandates and this so-called “State of
Emergency”. Anyone can catch CO VID-19 whether they have been jabbed or not and for
most people, it is not a serious disease at all.          had CO VID-19 earlier this month
and I tested negative on both PCR tests at the beginning and end of our week in isolation.

I worked extremely hard and sacrificed a lot for my teaching career. Each morning I would
arrive at 7am and finish most days between 5 and 7pm. To keep my skills current, I continued
working part time once both                                                          I was
confident it would all pay off in the end, and I thought that it had when I was finally
                                        at a school and in a position that I loved. I was loved
back by my students and got on well with their parents and my colleagues.

                                   drop off food deliveries to those same people for less than
the minimum wage. I am very grateful for the work as it enables me to keep going so that I
don’t sit at home crying all day in despair, sadness, and anger. To write this has been
upsetting and has me once again in tears.

The government of Queensland has absolutely no right to enforce a medical procedure on
anyone for any reason. Especially a medical procedure that they themselves are exempt from
and has death as a possible side effect! Where is the fairness in that?! I always taught
kindness and understanding in my classes and now I feel that there is no kindness or
understanding coming from the people who call themselves our leaders. They are not leading,
they are bullying us. I know many staff in education who only got injected out of coercion to
keep their job - that is not a choice at all. The government must let us live our lives and let us
make medical decisions for ourselves. The science is not settled on this and yet people’s
lives, careers, families, and futures have been severely negatively affected unnecessarily.
Stop the tyranny, stop the fear mongering, and stop the overreach of control! Enough already.
The mandates must stop so that people like me can do what we are supposed to be doing.
