Below please find my submission to the Covid-19 response inquiry.

I will start off by noting that this inquiry should not only include Covid-19 actions, responses and
policies of the federal government, but should definitely also have included all Covid-19 actions,
responses and policies of the state governments since these obviously have had the same or
probable an even more profound and direct impact on the general public’s lifes than Covid-19
actions, responses and policies of the federal government. In my opinion this is an
incomprehensible missed opportunity which may result in a less comprehensive outcome, lacking
the addressing of critical state government Covid-19 responses.
In my view, a full Royal commission inquiry into federal and state government Covid-19 actions,
responses and policies would be the only way to go, also to make sure that state governments will
take thorough note of and adhere to the outcomes of the inquiry.

Nonetheless I’m prepared to spend a significant amount of time to compile my submission.

In my opinion the below items should be dealt with during the Covid-19 response inquiry.

- Australian regulatory approval process of an experimental vaccine with no proven long term
efficacy and safety data.
- vaccine procurement process and secrecy of vaccine contracts.
- vaccine mandates and how they prevented the general public from a true informed consent
through coercion.
- a vigorously pushing and promoting of the experimental Covid-19 vaccines by federal and state
governments, without adequately pointing out the risks and side effects, and also denying General
Practitioners to form and vent their own opinions, risking being deregistered if they do.
- a vigorously pushing and promoting of the experimental Covid-19 vaccines by mainstream media
and Australian celebrities. As in my opinion this is providing medical advice, that can only be
provided by GP’s and other qualified medical professionals, it should be identified whether this was
legal and if not, should have the necessary legal repercussions.
- vaccine injuries, the recording and reporting of the injuries and the financial compensation
process.
- effectiveness of mask mandates and lockdowns.
- assessment of negative effects of postponing and cancelling regular hospital (i.e. common
surgical) procedures, as a result of lack of hospital capacity during Covid peaks.
- complete ban and vilification of alternative medication like for instance ivermectin, and alternative
medical treatments.
- did politicians receive Covid-19 vaccine exemptions? If so, which politicians and why?
- Assessment of financial or non-financial benefits rewarded to politicians by pharmaceutical
companies for pushing their Covid-19 vaccines.
- mental health effects and negative effects on childrens education caused by lockdowns, school
closures and border closures.
- negative effects of the deliberately created division between vaccinated and unvaccinated people.
- accuracy and effectiveness of Covid-19 test procedures.
- assessment of accuracy of and variations in the Covid-19 production processes, also compared to
the Covid-19 vaccine compounds that were used during vaccine trials.
- assessment of Covid-19 vaccine storage and distribution procedures and possible shortcomings
therein.
- assessment of all basic human rights that were completely ignored and abolished as a result of
Covid-19 responses, the legality of this and how to prevent this and much better safeguard these
basic human rights in future events.
- assessment of extreme police brutality and abuse of power during anti-lockdown demonstrations.
I remember unarmed and peaceful protesters being shot in the back with rubber bullets by heavily
armed riot squads in Melbourne and the alleged use of LRAD devices at another civilian protest in
Canberra. Or a young man at a Melbourne train station being attacked from behind by a coward
police officer, throwing this young man violently to the ground, head first, immediately rendering
him unconscious. Pepper spraying of elderly people by police officers. Words are insufficient to
describe how I feel about this.



Below you will find my own description of experiences and events instigated by state and federal
governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic, that have given me profound feelings of insult
and disgust.

- the deliberately created division by government politicians and health bureaucrats between
vaccinated and unvaccinated Australians. I will never forget the remark by Dan Andrews and
several other state politicians calling it the “pandemic of the unvaccinated”. In my opinion this was
nothing but ^^^^^speech, unworthy of any politician or any other professional. Completely
opposite to the government promoted inclusively of all people, reducing the unvaccinated people,
who were smart enough to at least have doubts about the global Covid-19 vaccine experiment, to
second hand and useless civilians. Similar to South African Apartheid and the treatment of the
Jewish people during WorldWar II. This should never ever happen again in Australia or anywhere
else for that matter!

The Australian state and federal governments should clearly know by now that for instance the
^^^■Zovid-19 vaccines were not even designed to prevent transmission in the first place, as
officially stated under oath by a^^^Bdirector during a public hearing of the European Union.

- the relentless pushing and promoting of experimental Covid-19 vaccines by politicians, health
bureaucrats and main stream media, by endlessly repeating they are safe and effective, while a
statement like that can not be backed and guaranteed, because of the lack of proven longterm
clinical trial data.
To me this is equal to at least a huge misrepresentation of these products.

- the ongoing vilification of alternative opinions about the safety and efficacy of the Covid-19
vaccines and government responses to the pandemic. Only the official government narrative on
these matters seemed to be allowed to be vented. GP’s were being threatened by AHPRAto be
deregistered if they would speak a different opinion. This is a dangerous development as it severely
diminishes the trust I can have in my own GP.

- endless lockdowns that undoubtedly have caused a lot of physical, mental and economical damage
to many people in Australia.

- extraordinary police brutality during anti lockdown protests, resulting in many dangerous
situations to the general public through abuse of police powers.



If Australian state and federal governments would have created an environment and atmosphere
where ordinary people can feel safe and unthreatened when they expose their criticism or
potentially different opinions, I would have submitted including all my personal details.
Unfortunately this is not the case in current Australia. A very sad and unwanted development.
