Submission for Covid 19 Enquiry

In this submission I would like to address the following terms of reference for this enquiry -

Broader health and social supports; Governance, including roles and responsibilities; Key health
response measures.

The entire "Covid 19 Pandemic Response" was handled very poorly by the Australian Government.

The coercion, fear tactics, irrational directives and censorship from the Government during this time
was inexcusable and unacceptable.

The most inexcusable aspect was mandating an experimental medical procedure to the Australian
Public. Greg Hunt the Australian Chief Medical Officer said..."The world is engaged in the largest
clinical trial ever..." To mandate man, woman, and child with an experiment goes against the
Nuremberg Code: Informed Consent and absence of coercion, deceit, duress, overreaching, or other
ulterior form of constraint.

The Helsinki Declaration: Respect for Individuals, the right to make Informed Consent.

Even the The Australian Immunization Handbook states immunisation providers must screen people
before vaccination and obtain valid consent.

Not one person could have been given fully informed consent as there is no long term data. No Jab
No Job contravenes all of the above and I believe is unlawful and highly unethical. A crime against
humanity. The Federal Government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation, like these two
Bills here (that failed to pass):- Covid-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022
and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023.

https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliarmentary Business/Committees/Senate/'Education and Employmen
t/VaccineDiscrimination

That allowed the Federal Government to coerce vaccination while denying it was mandated.

They informally outsourced it to States and corporations who sacked you if you didn't inject:-
teachers, police, healthcare workers, bus drivers, supermarket workers and many more.

My personal story: I was stood down on 30/9/2021 and fired from my NSW Health position of 17
years in early 2022 for choosing not to have an experimental Covid 19 Injection. My research of
Pfizer's early Clinical Data told me that my condition of ^^^^Hwas contraindicated. I was not
prepared to risk my body with something that^^^| own data suggested it was not safe. As the
government measures increased in more and more control, any data of contraindications became
obsolete in the face of their slogan of SAFE AND EFFECTIVE for all regardless of health or personal
beliefs.

This brings me to the unelected non government body APRHA who directly issued each health
practitioner in Australia a letter stating that they were to follow the Australian Health Directives
under pain of disciplinary action and de-registration. Therefore my doctors were unable to give me a
 Medical Exemption. I was left with absolutely no medical advocacy and therefore was fired from my
job and excluded from society.

I personally lost my job, my personal small business and my community volunteer work because of
these Mandates.
Why were proven alternative protocol and treatment plans like Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine
NOT allowed to be used for early treatment or allowed to be dispensed by doctors? Yet later
adopted by Australian Hospitals? Why were many respected physicians and scientists who had
alternative viewpoints excluded from a seat at the 'Pandemic' table? Australian Medical Giants, like
Professc                      and^^^H If this was indeed a novel virus with deadly consequences
of unknown proportions then why was scientific discussion from world renowned doctors
discouraged and disregarded?

Evidence on the efficacy of Ivermectin in June 2021 Written Evidence Submitted by Dr ■
    I Director The Evidence-based Medicine Consultancy Ltd - https://committees.parliament.uk
pdf

The comprehensive Australian Medical Professionals Society (AMPS) Book, "Too Many Dead" (an
Inquiry into Austalia's Excess Mortality) has 470 pages packed with evidence of the excess deaths
crisis directly caused by the Government's mandated jabs and other errors - you can download the
 DE for free here, or buy the paperback:- https://amps.redunion.com.au/too-many-dead

International Doctors such as Dr^^^^^^^^^^and Dr. ^^^^^Hboth gave evidence of death
and harm from the prevention of early treatment protocols and the risk of Covid-19 Injections at the
US State Senate Hearings.

The Great Barrington Declaration https://gbdeclaration.ori . An Open Letter to the world in October
2020 so far signed by over 939,000 infectious disease epidemiologists and public health scientists
who had grave concerns about the damaging physical and mental health impacts of the prevailing
COVID-19 policies.

In summary the Pandemic Measures including Lockdowns, Mask Mandates, Vaccine Mandates and
Vaccine Passports were not backed by Science, resulted in dividing a country into a two-tiered
society and caused more harm than the actual virus.

Colleen King
