15-12-2023

To Whom it may concern,
I am shocked at what I have witnessed, during the pandemic (these last few years) The Fear
Campaign to combat vaccine hesitancy, has left many of us shell shocked. To mandate experimental
drug injections, is both unethical, cruel, and I believe, unlawful, under human rights laws. The
overreach and intrusion into doctor patient confidentiality, and patient privacy by government, was and
is, intrusive, unwarranted, and just plain wrong, ethically.

In a state of emergency, everyday Australians did not mind following rules, to help keep people safe,
but when mandates, and forced lockdowns, were forcefully implemented, most believe that our
government took things way to far. Sure, voluntary measures would have been ignored by a few
people, but so were enforced measures. No one likes to be dictated to, including myself, and I feel that
Australians were treated like ignorant children, incapable of making our own decisions.

The government secrecy, and censorship, of open, and robust debate, on covid, on social media, is
what caused a lot of our problems, with governments just fobbing it off, as actions, to ban
misinformation and disinformation, despite some of the information, later proved, to be true.
Who decides what is Truth? when there is no factual data, shown to prove it? We need a full Royal
Commission, into our Covid Response and have terms of reference that cover everything to do with
covid and the last few years. After all that people have been through, we deserve it

There are and were people negatively impacted when it came to receiving health care or visiting loved
ones, when it came to internal border closures, that should never have been closed in my eyes!
The Whole State against State competition, between premiers, was not conducive to inclusive and
happy communities and encouraged vaccinated people to look down upon unvaccinated people.
The morning covid information sessions, contained derogatory messages, aimed at people, who chose
not to take part in the vaccine trial, and pitted Aussies against Aussies! With Gladys Berejiklian saying
that, and I Quote “I wouldn't want to sit next to, an unvaccinated person” end Quote
or Daniel Andrews saying, and I quote again “If you are not vaccinated, we may not have, a
hospital bed for you” end Quote. These things stand out in my mind, among the many other things,
that were negatively said, of (covid) unvaccinated people, by our elected officials, and note that they
made me feel ill and unsafe at the time, and continue to upset me and ring in my mind, as to, how
tyrannical, and derogatory, the comments were. I am also appalled to see no recognition of Natural
Immunity, necessary for building up herd immunity, instead we were debased and shunned from
society.

Those like me, who already had^^H bushfires and then the covid terror, was almost to much to
handle, triggering my symptoms worse, than they already were, and can understand why people were
committing suicide. The graphic horrors, and terror that was inflicted, on adults, and children alike by
our government 24/7 to combat vaccine hesitancy were disgusting. In a time of emergency, a sensible
move, would have been to calm our society, and encourage people to optimise their health and help
each other, instead we were induced to fear others, and the virus. Seeing people treated like cattle,
with a lack of compassion and care, Isolated, locked up and censored was abysmal. How heart
breaking it was, to not be able, to spend time with, or advocate, for loved ones, during illness, or their
last days, and to not be able to attend funerals, and say goodbye, and console loved ones, was
unconscionable in my eyes, and something that many Australians, will never forget.
The Poorer people in our communities, got hit the hardest at every hurdle, gathering supplies for
example, as were we not advised, if we would be able to shop, during the lockdown? This panicked
people and disadvantaged poorer people, as they were, not able financially, to stock up, for 3 months,
in case we would not be able to shop during the lockdown. This measure and resulting chaos, caused
the panic buying and crowds in big supermarkets, spreading the virus, and I would have thought, that
we would be tying to do the opposite, if a highly infectious virus was in our midst! Anxiety levels soared
with the unknown factors. Our smaller Australian businesses were disadvantaged and crushed in
favour of big corporations, and funnily enough fewer people use small businesses, so there would be
less chance of viral spread in a smaller setting.

Sadly its not all over yet! With some of the covid mandates, still in place, there are plenty of Aussies,
still unable to work, and support their families, and put a roof over their heads. Sadly the WHO, could
make all of this happen again, if given the power. I am sure that our country and leaders are quite
capable of making our own democratic decisions during a pandemic or any other emergency, and one
that is tailored to fit our countries needs, instead of a one size fits all solution. I never want to see so
much panic induced terror and chaos caused by our leaders ever again, and I fear that staying with the
WHO would make that possible.

In hindsight I feel that we should have shielded our vulnerable better, and allowed young and healthy
individuals to carry on their lives as usual. Anyone who felt scared or threatened by the virus or being
among society, could simply stay at home and or get vaccinated until viral spread abated!
It should always, have been a choice, for individuals of sound mind, to vaccinate, or not to vaccinate
themselves based on informed consent..

I am greatly concerned about The WHO International Health Regulation Amendments, and the
Pandemic Treaty in general. I have been reading through their proposed changes and was
gobsmacked to see "with full respect for the dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms of
persons" Struck out? These changes would remove bodily autonomy for the whole population,
including our children. Why would they strike out this clause?

As someone who chose not to participate in the mRNA vaccine trials due to my spiritual beliefs, I am
greatly concerned, that these changes, will take away my option, to choose what medications I take,
and make them mandatory. I feel that these amendments will also further erode the Doctor Patient
relationship, individualised care and confidentiality. "ONE HEALTH" as proposed by the WHO and a
"one size fits all" healthcare system, will destroy individualised health care, as we know it.
Successive governments have allowed our healthcare system to be run down, and in decline, yet
during the pandemic, we saw no big renovations, or extra facilities were established, Why not?



Our government has been railroaded by the numerous and very intricate changes being pushed by the
W.H.O. under the guise of "One Health". A lot of politicians don't even realise, that our government will
not get to vote, on these amendments. As long as we remain a W.H.O. Member Nation State, these
rights will simply be gone, unless our government rejects them in writing, as silence, will be considered,
as consent. We the people did not vote for these unelected Bureaucrats or changes to their Charter,
that want to rule over us with authoritarianism in our country
The amount of money, it will cost us, to stay on as a member state of the WHO, could be better spent
and put directly into Australia's health care system.
I feel that I am already being discriminated against medically, by being kicked of my care plan in 2021
and am unable to access a^^^H
                       I had access to                 on my care plan for 15 yrs,, but not now.
Coincidental? Perhaps, but do have a friend with the same circumstances, being told that he is to old
for treatment now too.

If these changes to the WHO, IRH and Pandemic Treaty go through, I feel that I will no longer be able
to maintain my bodily autonomy, and right to make my own decisions, about my own health and
lifestyle. If these changes are made, I fear that I will no longer be entitled to my basic human rights,
fundamental freedoms and free speech.
If these amendments go through our country will be beholden to the WHO, a bunch of unelected
bureaucrats that could have total control of our healthcare system.

The last few years and our covid response have been a mere glimpse, into what the future may hold, if
the WHO gains more control of our country's rights.



Yours Sincerely

Patricia Kahler
