I DEMAND a Royal Commission for a FULL investigation.

Please EXPOSE           vaccine acquisitions and                    with Vaccine Manufacturers.

        vaccine mandates - violates our constitutional rights.

Official MISINFORMATION about vaccines blocking our transmission (you must truly think we are



Vaccine injuries - previously legislation ordered that 60 or more injuries ceased a vaccine - look at the
THOUSANDS of injuries and DEATHS.

IT'S NOT A VACCINE IT'S A




      Hey Bonnie,


      Thank you for tuning into The End of COVID’s free repiay period.


      Thank you for your willingness to unlearn and take the first step in unraveling
      our previously held beliefs about disease and contagion.


      Thank you for participating in this still-growing educational revolution. If
      enough men and women engage in this content like you did, we’ll be able to
      close the curtain on perpetual pandemics - once and for all.


      Remember: the entire video library is stili available to purchase and own
      forever.
      So, please, re-visit these sessions. Share the information with friends and
      family. Because if you do, a life of health, happiness, and sovereignty awaits
      all of mankind.



                                              BUY NOW
We’d also like to remind you that The End of COVID was a collective effort.
The project was put together by a small group of independent organizations -
with no motives other than seeking the truth.


No pharmaceutical interests. No scientific dogma. And no backing from the
corporate press. So, please consider checking out and supporting the
sponsors who made it happen.




                          The Way Forward

The Way Forward is a grassroots movement. The Way Forward's mission is to
educate, empower, and unite men and women from all walks of life in pursuit
of health, liberty, and consciousness.




                                                Accessible on your members’ dash, we
                                                make it easy for you to search for other
                                                 members based on their geographic
                                                               location.




 With The Way Forward’s new membership platform, we’ve developed some
 amazing tools to connect you with like-minded men and women in your
 area.


 We also have a top-rated alternative health podcast, a membership
 marketplace with access to the best deals you’ll find on a number of
 holistic health brands and products, a business directory with exclusive
 deals for members, community calls, and much more.
                                   JOIN HERE




Alfa Vedic
The Alfa Vedic mission is
dedicated to further the
awareness and implementation
of decentralized agriculture,
medicine without violence, and
financial systems aligned with
natural law to elevate the well­
being and collective                           ALFA VEDIC
consciousness for seven
successive generations.




With a foundation in biodynamic agriculture and bio-terrain medicine, the Alfa
  Vedic product line is "beyond organic," with a focus on naturally derived
 ingredients that support the terrain using the most advanced techniques in
                   modern alchemy and biological science.


 In conjunction with The End of Covid, Alfa Vedic is launching its own private
online community on alfavedic.com. It will serve as a private hub where our
community can gather online to discuss all the topics from the End of Covid
                    without fear of tracking or censorship.



                           SHOP & LEARN MORE




                                   Unsubscribe

        The Way Forward, P.O. Box 129, South Barre, MA 01074, United States
