          Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Enquiry Submission.

I am a retired CEO and Company Director.
I have run both large corporates and social enterprises. I have also served on the boards of
both NFPs and social enterprises.
I am immunocompromised with a blood cancer; my partner is also immunocompromised with a
heart condition.
My son has cancer likely caused by Covid infection and my sister has neuroendocrine cancer.
As such, myself and my family have been greatly affected by Covid itself and also by the
responses of Australian Governments thus far into this still ongoing pandemic.


1. The role of the Federal & State Governments and other advisory bodies:

1.1 The Morrison Government:
The gross incompetence and politicisation of the Morrison government plus recommended
actions are well recorded in the Senate Select Committee on Covid 19 report tabled on 7th April
2022:
https://www.aph.jiov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/Senate/COVID-
19/COVID19/Report

For the first time in our history public health had been almost completely abandoned, with
Morrison declaring that Australian’s needed to take “personal responsibility” for their health:
https://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/scott-nnorrison-urges-personal-responsibility-
instead-of-mask-mandates-and-lockdown/h2tlrp5k2

For myself and my family a lack of public health measures meant locking down in our home and
choosing not to continue work due to the high risk of Covid infection - a very privileged option
most others did not have.
It also meant missing the birth of our first grandchild and not being able to physically support our
son and his family in their time of need.
A lack of trust in the Morrison government and the CMO, meant relying on the advice of
overseas bodies (CDC, NHS, etc), coupled with advices from local credible sources such as the
Victorian CHO and Premier as well as apolitical experts such as Raina McIntyre, Brendan
Crabb and Peter Doherty.


1.2 Albanese government:
After being highly critical of the Morrison government’s response to Covid, it was a complete
betrayal of the Australian public for Albanese to go even further in removing effectively all
remaining public health measures:
https://www.thesaturdaypaper.c m.au/news/p litics/2022/' j8/albaneses-choice-c vid-19-and-
public-health#hrd
The Albanese government continued the well publicised policy of gaslighting by Morrison and
slowly commenced removing even the access to Covid data from the public:
https://www.thesaturdaypaper.c m.au/news/politics/2022/07/23/next-covid-wave-the-
g /ernment-gasliqhtinq-the-community#hrd

Vaccine procurement was even slower than previously and vaccine and anti-viral access was
further restricted - inconsistent with other health bodies and the WHO.

Meanwhile the CMO Kelly has continued marketing the virtues of “rich hybrid immunity” -a
policy unsupported by independent science. It is also morally corrupt given the death and
disablement rates associated with such an action. Regardless it appears now to be government
policy to mass infect the population with a rapidly mutating Class 3 Biohazard.

For us it has meant no visits to dentists, GPs, specialists and hospitals unless absolutely crucial.
Health care workers and hospitals have become spreaders of infection and Covid
misinformation thrives due to the lack of science-based policy and gaslighting by successive
governments.
The lack of government leadership based on science has left a communication hole to be filled
with misinformation by malevolent actors. Federal government communications are effectively
nonexistent and as with the Morrison government, that void is continuing to be filled with
misinformation.


1.3 State Governments:
A lack of consistent messaging between states has been one of the major issues for the public.
Four years into the pandemic and yet contradictory information abounds between States.
For example, currently the NSW government advises a focus on hand washing (9 specific
publications) - for an airborne virus! Meanwhile Victoria is clear about masking and even
advising the virtues of respirators:
https://www.betterhealth.vic.qG7.au/cor? iavirus-covid-19-victoria
The State governments appear to have differing levels of scientific knowledge and as such,
misinformation continues.

1.4 ATAGI and the TGA:
The AHPPC, like the TGA is essentially unseen by the public. However, the TGA has a most
crucial role. On the few occasions when John Skerritt was in public he engendered confidence
in the agency, but when queried about approval delays, he also made it quite clear that the TGA
was reliant on Government to “signal” its political requirements:
https://www.thequardian.eom/w rld/2021/dec/31/a-scramble-how-australian-covernments-
flipped-from-resistinq-i) ambracinq-covid-rapid-antiqen-tests

Like the TGA, ATAGI has also clearly been politicised by reference to its recommendations
versus those for the CDC, NHS, WHO and EMA for the same products and circumstances.
ATAGI as an advisory body is very slow to provide its formal report on urgent Covid vaccines.
For example, so far 6 weeks minimum for the XBB monovalent, with no value added to the TGA
report and inconsistent with the WHO SAGE recommendations.
ATAGI’s real benefit appears to provide governments with a political scapegoat for slow vaccine
procurement, supply and distribution - regardless of its actual functional responsibilities.

For example, the very slow approval for an XBB vaccine in 2023, that was being rushed into
arms in other developed nations from September, meant for my family, an otherwise
unnecessary extended lockdown until it becomes available.
Approved belatedly by the TGA on 6th October - over 2 months ago, and no signs of any
vaccines as yet, with the XBB variant infections rapidly increasing Australia wide.
In the meantime, Mark Butler excuses his inaction saying that he must wait for ATAGI to make
its recommendations.

1.5 Australian CDC:
The potential introduction of an Australian CDC is most welcome, with the following comments:
   1. It needs to take on the functional roles of ATAGI, TGA and AHPPC as well as
       responsibility for the National Medical Stockpile.
   2.      Senior appointments must be apolitical and seen to be so.
   3.      Advices must be published for the community with explanations and references.
   4. KPIs need to be established for key items such as vaccine procurement. With
       performance to KPIs published.
   5. The States and the Federal government need to agree on community messaging and
       implement accordingly.
