            Australian
            National
            University



 15 December 2023                                                Robyn Alders, AO

                                                                 Honorary Professor
                                                                 Development Policy Centre

                                                                 Crawford School of Public Policy
                                                                 Australian National University

 COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
 Commonwealth Government
 Canberra, ACT
                                                                 www.anu.edu.au




Dear Panel Members

             Re: Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts with you on this important topic.

To introduce myself, I am a veterinarian and an Honorary Professor with the ANU Development Policy
Centre, ANU Institute for Climate, Energy and Disaster Solutions, Department of Pathobiology and
Population Sciences at the Royal Veterinary College in London and Veterinary Department of Infectious
Disease and Global Health, Tufts University. I am also a Senior Consulting Fellow with the Chatham House
Global Health Programme. In addition, since September of this year, I am a Commissioner with the Lancet-
PPATS Commission on Prevention of Viral Spillover: reducing the risk of pandemics through primary
prevention. For over 30 years, I have worked closely with smallholder farmers and producers in sub-Saharan
Africa, South and SE Asia and Oceania as a veterinarian, researcher and colleague, with an emphasis on the
development of sustainable infectious disease control in animals in resource-limited areas in support of
food and nutrition security, income generation, wildlife conservation and public health. My current
research and development interests include safe and sustainable food systems, One Health, gender equity
and Science Communication.

I would like to briefly address two of the key points outlined in your Terms of Reference:

    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
        medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
        messaging)
        R: In relation to the call for local industries to support the COVID-19 public health response, it
        would be ideal for clear guidance to be made available regarding known and accepted standards.
        The production of sub-standard alcohol-based hand sanitiser is one example of a waste of time
        and resources that could have been easily avoided.

    •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
        across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability,
        First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
        communities).
        R: The Australian Government failed to adequately identify and utilise Australians and Australian
        residents with significant knowledge of and experience with infectious disease prevention and


ANU CRAWFORD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC POLICY
        control in diverse cultural settings. There are eminent Australian medical professionals with
        considerable international experience in the prevention and control of emerging infectious
        diseases who were not adequately or appropriately employed during the COVID-19 response.
        Australian doctors, nurses and social scientists, for instance those who work with Medecins Sans
        Frontieres, should have been invited very early on to inform national and state level working
        groups in relation to viral and landscape epidemiology, effective communication in cross-cultural
        settings and community engagement. Such people may not 'toe' the government or academic line
        and it is for this very reason that they should be in the room, especially when dealing with novel
        pathogens.

Thank you for your efforts. I look forward to reading your report in due course.



Sincerely,




Robyn Alders, AO, BSc(Vet) BVSc DipVetClinStud PhD




2 | ANU CRAWFORD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC POLICY
