COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                             2   Governance


1    Introduction
All levels of Australian government failed spectacularly in demonstrably crim­
inal ways. Myopia, cynicism, and fear seem to have been the only guiding
principles of government during that time and the costs incurred we will be
paying for for generations to come. The most insidious costs are seen in the
image of government itself, with government increasingly thinking its remit is
broader than it actually is and a corresponding further decline in public trust.
The terms of reference, and observing the inquiries of similar governments in
the UK and Canada, make it clear that governments haven’t actually learnt any
lessons and aren’t interested in learning any. In the end, government will have
caused more death, harm, and misery than the virus could ever have hoped to.
This inquiry seems an attempt to whitewash the damage government caused,
but perhaps you will prove me wrong.

    I am just an ordinary citizen. Government prevented my mother from being
present at the birth of her first grandchild even through a difficult labour. That
is something she’d have gladly risked her life for, but that, of course, didn’t
matter. Instead, the parents were kept in prison like conditions in a room of
the hospital for a week. My mother generally trusted government, but her
third shot, and first mRNA based shot, which she did not wish to take, almost
certainly contributed to her death 10 months later.


2 Governance
Looking a what happened during those years, government was clearly invariably
the biggest source of misinformation and disinformation. Take masking, for
one of many possible examples. We’ve known for decades1 that masking is
pointless for controlling respiratory viruses, including for this virus both before2
and after3 mandates were put in place by state governments. The Federal
Government also kept up the pretence that masking was effective, and went
out of its way to censor even mild dissent4. No thought was given to the
    ^OOS Sydney Morning Herald, Farce mask:            it’s safe for only 20 minutes
https://www.smh.com.au/national/farce-mask-its-safe-for-only-20-minutes-
20030427-gdgnyo.html
   22020 Cochrane Library Review https: //www. cochranelibrary. com/cdsr/doi/10.
1002/14651858.CD006207.pub5/full
   32023 Cochrane Library Review https://www. cochranelibrary. com/cdsr/doi/10.
1002/14651858.CD006207.pub6/full
   4Twitter Files Extra: The Covid Censorship Requests of Australia’s Department of Home
Affairs https://www.racket.news/p/twitter-flies-extra-the-covid-censorship


                                                                                       1
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                 4    Lockdowns


externalities, as if the action were entirely cost free. It is dangerous to make
people think they are safer than they actually are. There are likely health
problems incurred by wearing the same mask for prolonged periods of time.
Federal and State Governments beat us over the head about Climate Change
and pollution, yet government was responsible for a massive increase in plastic
pollution; you still can’t walk anywhere without seeing discarded masks. Nor
was any consideration given to how the social fabric is damaged by treating
fellow citizens as nothing other than vectors of disease.


3 Health Response
It is difficult to overstate how morally repugnant it is to discriminate based on
whether an individual has undergone a medical procedure; i.e. vaccination sta­
tus. This is precisely what the Federal Government enabled. The government’s
own data shows that they knew the vaccine was not particularly effective or well
studied5 and very quickly got signals from the State governments that there was
a worrying safety signal6. And now we’re rapidly finding that repeated expo­
sures to this novel technology makes you more susceptible to infection7. This
was topped off with the laughable deportation of Novak Djokovic. The man had
already been infected and recovered from this virus. Did the government think
vaccines have some magical properties? The entire point of vaccination is to
mimic natural immunity derived from natural infection. Then the bar required
to enforce a population wide medical treatment is extraordinarily high, and the
government knew that it had not met this requirement before it enabled State
Governments to engage in discrimination. Therefore, the Medicare Vaccine
Passport scheme should be destroyed with extreme prejudice. It was just typical
Big Brother government overreach of the most deranged kind. Something like
it should never be allowed to arise again.


4 Lockdowns
As untried and antithetical to liberal democracies, we should have expected
that lockdowns would come with huge costs (and some of us did). Indeed, the
   5Nonclinical Evaluation Report by The Therapeutic Goods Administration, January 2021
https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/foi-2389-06.pdf
   6Western Australian Vaccine Safety Surveillance, Annual Report 2021 https://www.
health.wa.gov.au/~/media/Corp/Documents/Health-for/Immunisation/Western-
Australia-Vaccine-Safety-Surveillance-Annual-Report-2021.pdf
   Effectiveness of a fourth SARS-CoV-2 vaccine dose in previously infected individuals from
Austria https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10. 1111/eci.14136


                                                                                          2
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                           4     Lockdowns


                                                                        was prescient
when he said




   Indeed, we know most of the cost of living crisis was caused by State lock­
downs and Federal Government money printing . Even the least experienced
economists working for Government would be able to tell you inflation would be
an obvious consequence of artificially shutting down the economy and printing
hundreds of billions of dollars.

    The problem, of course, was typical government myopia. I know from Free­
dom Of Information Requests, that the ACT Government did not consider any
of the externalities of lockdowns before they were imposed. There were no doc­
uments considered by the ACT Cabinet from the Department of Health or the
Treasury that examined the potential negative consequences of government’s
actions. There was no cost-benefit analysis. There was no consideration of
what the purpose of life is. There was no consideration of the coming health
time bomb as a large percentage of Australians got out of the habit of exercising
due to gym and other leisure activities being shutdown. There was no consid­
eration of the mental health effects due to coming financial pressures. And, to
top it off, we know from comparisons with other countries, there are no benefits
to lockdowns. Australia’s excess mortality is comparable to or exceeds places
that did not lockdown8910 and has erased a decade of progress according to ABS
data . I certainly would not be surprised if other State governments also did
not consider the consequences of their actions, and that this may have been led
by cynicism at the Federal level.

   Of course, government never has to bear the consequences of their actions.
No one will be held responsible for the biggest wealth transfer in Australia’s
  8Fiscal Policy in the COVID-19 Era https: //onlinelibrary. wiley. com/doi/10.1111/
1759-3441.12'382
  9How COVID-19 has affected mortality in 2020 to 2022 https://www.actuaries.asn
au/Library/0pinion/2023/REP0RTV2C0VID19 .pdf
  10Deaths, Australia 2022 https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/people/population/
deaths-australia/latest-release


                                                                                   3
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                             5    Purpose Of Government


history from the least well off the the most well off. That’s ultimately all lock­
downs were. Enjoyed by those that were well-off enough to afford to live in their
large houses and have the plebeians make deliveries to them. And if the ple­
beians complained, they became kulaks out to kill grandma. Meanwhile, State
Governments couldn’t keep the virus out of aged care facilities because those
same kulaks were “essential workers” at those same facilities, still working three
“essential” jobs to make ends meet. Government is responsible for that social
acid. It has not shown any interest in learning lessons or holding anybody to
account. This is a scenario where the Nuremberg Defence, ‘just following or­
ders’, is wholly insufficient. Morally abhorrent orders must not be followed. Yet
police officers that[ 'f' ' - , t.’1 s                                            '
f’. / . ■                 Jare still employed12. There was no condemnation of
the Northern Territory Government for indefinite detention of innocent people
not even accused of any crime nor even proven to be sick (and being sick is
not and cannot be a crime).


5 Purpose Of Government
All of this sits upon a bigger social problem that the public has increasingly
come to look to government to solve problems that government is incapable
of solving. This is due to decades of various politicians making promises they
never had any hope of meeting, meanwhile the decay of community has gone
unaddressed, with many Australians unaware of the name of their neighbours.
Indeed, the only way to truely address a situation like the one we experienced is
for families to come together to help each other, for neighbours to help neigh­
bours and the understanding that it is the relationships between people that
give life meaning and government can only ever be an impediment to that.

    This is really a question of the necessary fictions at the heart of our value
system. I agree with                                 the manB|||||M
                                                     that Natural Rights are the
   ^Victorian     Bar    criticises    arrest     of   pregnant    woman      for    Facebook     lockdown

protest post   as  ‘disproportionate’ https://www.theguardian.com/australia-
news/2020/sep/03/victoria-police-arrested-pregnant-woman-facebook-post-
zoe-buhler-australia-warn-lockdown-protesters
   12Victoria   Police   officer   in viral     ‘choking’   arrest video   cleared   after   internal inves­

tigation       https://www.news.com.au/world/coronavirus/australia/victoria-
police-officer-in-viral-choking-arrest -video-cleared-after-internal-
investigation/news-story/53bc9726dbl2ceb9063876f46a213203
  13Inside Australia’s Covid Internment Camp https://unherd.com/thepost/inside-
australias-covid-internment-camp/



                                                                                                          4
COVID-19 Response Inquiry                               5   Purpose Of Government


foundation of a good society and it is the role of government to protect those
rights. There are situations were what the majority wants cannot override the
rights of the individual; after all, a gang-rape is democratic. In return, it is the
duty of the citizen to support the people and society around them.

    For me personally, I know I’ll never trust government again as long as I live.
So, why submit to this inquiry? Because in the long term reason will again even­
tually prevail. Particularly when this generation of children grow up and realise
how badly government failed them, and stole from their education, health and
financial future. In several decades, there will be an official government apol­
ogy, and it is my duty to stand for the better angels now. What I expect from
this inquiry is typical government corruption and coverup (ASIC being another
current example). It was impossible to get any elected official to listen or re­
spond during the height of their mania, with no sign of that having changed
since things have died down. It all seemed to be the classic Yes, Minister joke:
‘[Pjoliticians logic: something must be done, this is something, therefore we
must do it.’ That may be an aspect of human nature, but it isn’t unreasonable
to expect more.

   I’ll close with a classic quote from C.S. Lewis14:




  ^C.S. Lewis, God in the Dock: Essays on Theology (Making of Modern Theology)



                                                                                  5
