To: The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel

From:

Dear members of the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

I work as a driver of a public bus service in a large urban centre. Through my job, I come in contact
with people from all walks of life, from some of the most affluent to the very poorest individuals.
They all take public transport at some time or other, and I get to observe them close up, giving me
an almost unique perspective on a wide cross-section of the urban population.

How the COVID-19 Pandemic Affected Me:

During the COVID-19 Pandemic of 2020-21, I was directly affected in several ways, such as by :-

1) Mask Mandates: I suffer from asthma and am unable to wear a face mask. I obtained a mask
exemption, and in all my time driving a public bus during the pandemic, I never once caught a cold
or flu, or even COVID.

2) Vaccination Status: I chose to exercise my inalienable right to refuse the vaccine. For this, I was
eventually put on leave without pay for a period of about 4 months when the government imposed
its rules regarding vaccination status. After the 4 months had passed, I returned to full employment,
to work alongside my "jabbed" workmates (as if nothing had happened).

3) Secondary impacts, like discrimination from self-appointed COVID bullies, who (for example)
chose to ignore my mask exemption despite it being a legal document provided by a medical
practitioner.

I could go on.

During this unique period in our nation's history, I personally witnessed many strange things, such as
my observation that people with a greater number of vaccinations to COVID-19 became sicker than
those with fewer vaccinations; the group exhibiting the best health were those who had no
vaccinations at all for COVID-19, despite the constant messaging about the vaccines being "safe and
effective." It quickly became clear from my direct observation that the vaccines being offered to
treat or prevent COVID-19 could neither treat nor prevent it effectively.

It has also since come to light via the work of others that the vaccines are not, by any normal
definition, safe (see, for example, the attached files 'EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.pdf' and 'Request to
New Mexico Law Enforcement for a Grand Jury Criminal Investigation into the Crimes of Covid-
19.pdf').

There are many other examples of the harm the COVID vaccines have done that are easily found
online besides the files accompanying this submission. A notable example from the past week or so
is that released by Barry Young, the New Zealand whistleblower. Whether you agree that the data
should have been released or not, nobody denies that the data is New Zealand Government
statistical data concerning the effect of COVID-19 vaccination on the population of New Zealand,
and therefore it should be examined. To ignore this data and continue to peddle the "safe and
effective" narrative is at best indicative of keeping one's head in the sand.
Addressing some of the Terms of Reference:

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and
territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National
Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
bodies supporting responses to CO VID-19.

I have the strong impression that the Federal and State/Territory governments are plowing ahead
with the COVID narrative that we have all seen and heard over these last 4 years instead of 1)
admitting that there were problems with the decisions made regarding COVID, and 2) addressing
these problems in and honest and transparent way. We do not expect government to be perfect;
what we do expect is an admission of any mistakes and addressing of those mistakes.


Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
medical supplies such as personal protective eguipment, guarantine facilities, and public health
messaging).

As discussed above, the one thing governments should not be doing is planning for any more
vaccinations and/or treatments for the population to endure, or any other mandates.


Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example mental
health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive health
measures).

I support this, now that the people of this country have suffered the impacts of COVID-19 policies
(lockdowns, job losses, financial stress, etc) imposed upon them. However, a much better solution
would be to address any future pandemics without any mandates (ie. government overreach).


International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to
international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for
domestic use in Australia).

To be absolutely honest, the only international policies we should be adopting are the ones
addressing the negative aspects of the vaccines (ie. that they do not achieve what they promise -
they are not effective - while, at the same time, have been shown to be the vaccines with the
highest rate of excess death in history). Again, I refer you to the 2 attached files, 'EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY.pdf' and 'Request to New Mexico Law Enforcement fora Grand Jury Criminal
Investigation into the Crimes of Covid-19.pdf'.


Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including across
genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First Nations
peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

In my opinion, the best response governments should be making in the face of a future pandemic is
to stop and think before rolling out all of the same ineffectual policies that we have witnessed for
COVID-19 (eg. lockdowns, mask mandates, discrimination based upon vaccination status, etc).
Summary and Conclusion:

The message I am seeking to get across with this submission is for some serious soul-searching and
introspection to be carried out regarding the COVID-19 vaccines and policies: the vaccines do not
work and they are dangerous, as are the policies that were implemented, such as lockdowns, mask
mandates, etc. Governments are there to serve the people, not the other way round.

To this end, I propose that there should be a Royal Commission held to address both the admission
that the policies forced upon the population during the last 4 years should never be repeated, and
also to discover some alternative policies besides those which have been forced unsuccessfully upon
the population (ie, masks do not prevent possible transmission of infectious agents so therefore
mask mandates are at best counter-productive and at worst masks create their own problems, such
as breathing difficulty, whereas lockdowns cause loss of income in many cases, as well as mental
health issues).

Finally, I would like to thank the members of the panel for their consideration of my submission.

                  15 December, 2023.
