                                      SUBMISSION TO THE
   COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

Introduction
I am making this submission because I saw the heart-breaking and long lasting effects of the
Government's response to COVID-19 on                and her family.

In January 2019, our^^^^| hei^^^^^and their^^^^^M then aged betwee^^^^^H headed
overseas for a trip of a lifetime, a working holiday, planmn^^eturn in 2021. When COVID struck they
were living in a small village in rural France where the     attended school and                was
working                     When Australia closed its borders in March 2020 they complied with the
Government and Prime Minister's request to shelter in place, so as to not overwhelm quarantine
facilities. As a consequence they were stranded in France, and abandoned by their country. In France,
schools closed, workers worked from home, people could only leave the house one at a time with a
signed form citing reasons for being away from home. The family were confined to a small 3 bedroom
house with no garden for months on end, which also caused stresses. Government efforts to bring all
citizens and permanent residents back to Australia were grossly inadequate. Our family eventually
returned in late December 2022, at great expense, on a commercial flight. Our^^^^His still
severely traumatised by her experience and some of the^^^^B have ongoing difficulties because of
the interruption to their schooling and socialisation.


Addressing the Terms of Reference
I wish to address the following Terms of Reference for this Inquiry:
     •       Governance
     •       Key health response measures
     •       Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19
     •       International policies to support Australians at home and abroad


1. Governance
    Issues
    •   Even by July 2021, 17 months after Australia closed its borders, there was no single agency or
        department coordinating quarantine. Instead, it was a responsibility shared by the
        Departments of Prime Minister and Cabinet, Finance, Health and Border Force1. This made for
        a cumbersome, inefficient process.
    • Lack of clarity as to who was responsible for quarantine places and caps - the
        Commonwealth Government or the States. Quarantine is supposedly a Commonwealth
        responsibility but the Commonwealth appeared to not be in control of any quarantine
        facilities and was at the behest of the States and Territories, including the
                | The States controlled how many people they would accept from overseas (arrival
        caps) whereas this would appear to be a Commonwealth responsibility under the
        Constitution.
    How to address this problem
        • It is critical that the roles of the Commonwealth and States are defined before any future
             pandemics, particularly in regard to Quarantine and arrival caps.
        • If quarantine is required in the early stages of any future pandemic, then an agency
             responsible for coordinating quarantine is vital.

2. Key health response measures
    Issues
    Issues such as delays in ordering vaccines and insufficient variety of vaccines, shortages of personal
    protective equipment and public messaging have been adequately covered by medical experts and
    the Independent Review "Fault Lines".


1 Hansard for Senate Select Committee on COVID-19, hearing on 30 July 2022, discussion between Ms Alison
Frame of Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Chair, Senator Katy Gallagher, pp2-3
    The issue of quarantine facilities has also been covered by reviews including "Fault Lines" and the
    two reviews of quarantine conducted by                     The following points are highly relevant
    to the issue of Australians stranded overseas during the pandemic.
         • Border closures. Australia was one of very few countries that closed its borders to its own
             citizens.
         • Australia took a hardlin^pproad^^^uarantine insisting upon limiting quarantining
               ptions to hotels and ^^^^^^^|for most people.
        •            There were inequitable exceptions:
                 o   Tennis players arriving for the Australian Open in 2021
                 o   English cricketers and their families
                 o   Pacific Islanders permitted to quarantine on farm, despite there often being no
                     suitable medical facilities close by (one of the criteria for choosing quarantine
                     places according to evidence given at the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19.
                 o   Movie stars who were filming in Australia.
                 o   Business people who routinely exited and re-entered Australia multiple times
        •   The longer term need for additional quarantine facilities was only recognised in the
            second quarter of 20212, according to Mi ^^^^^vidence. This statement defies
            credibility.
        •   The lack of quarantine places, combined with the inability of ordinary people to
            quarantine at home, meant arrival caps were instituted and were determined by the
            States. The flow on effect was horrendous:
                o Airlines were flying with 20-50 passengers so commercial flights were expensive
                o Those who could afford higher business or first class fares were prioritised and
                      other passengers "bumped".
                o There was no queue for the limited quarantine places and Australians were
                      competing against each other to secure a flight.
                o Arrival caps would be halved without notice, meaning that people who had
                      booked and paid for flights suddenly had them cancelled, often resulting in them
                      being homeless and jobless. Our daughter was scared to even try and book
                      because how would the family cope in this scenario?

    How to address this problem
      •          Use quarantine facilities as an option of last resort.
      •          Prioritise returning Australians over other categories.
      • Allow returning Australian residents and citizens to quarantine at home, just as those
            resident in Australia were trusted to stay at home if they were COVID positive.
        •   If quarantine facilities are required, utilise a booking system similar to the one instituted
            in New Zealand so there is an equitable approach.


3. Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19
    Issues
    The mental health of individuals stranded overseas, trying to return to Australia, was greatly
    impacted by their treatment by the Australian government. Our^^^^|is still severely
    traumatised two years after returning home as are many other Australians who were stranded
    overseas. Read this article from an Australian in America who outlines the key issues
    https://www.christinadayphotography.com/blog/empathv-or-lack-thereof-strandedaussies-
    abandoned-part-4?fbclid=lwAROSkC5MrrOCE8Pv7vNZXN-AXlSUFwl2DVWI XgfSOOKr-
    2vtwKilDEo9OA

    After telling expats to "shelter in place", the rhetoric from the government of the day changed to
    one where expats were blamed for not coming home earlier. The sentiment of Australians also
    changed. A poll run by the Guardian found 71% of respondents believed the border should stay
    shut until the COVID-19 crisis was past.


2 Hansard for Senate Select Committee on COVID-19, hearing on 30 July 2022, discussion between Ms Alison
Frame of Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Senator Watt
   Australians stranded overseas by Government policies and actions were unable to access mental
   health support services in Australia.

   In an effort to help our daughter return home, I wrote to all members of National Cabinet,
   including the Prime Minister; to the Foreign Minister; to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19
   and to the ABC, usually without response or acknowledgement. I invested a lot of money, time,
   energy and emotion in trying to get my family home. I found the whole process extremely
   stressful but my experience was nothing compared with that of our^^^^| who had the
   responsibility of ensuring he           mc^^^^^^^^/vere kept safe and not exposed to the risk
   of travelling on commercial flights which were getting cancelled or people bumped because arrival
   caps were limiting the numbers of people who could return.


4. International policies to support Australians at home and abroad
   Issues
   There were no effective policies to support Australians abroad. DFAT was missing in action during
   this crisis:
        • DFAT and their minister were unresponsive to requests for assistance to get repatriation
             flights.
        •             People needed to register with DFAT.
                  o Our^^^^B registered in October 2020 and only received two offers both with 5
                      days notice. Many people did not register because they saw no point.
                  o The registration portal initially prevented people registering unless they were
                      wanting to return home in the next quarter.
                  o For these reasons, DFAT had no idea of the true number of Australians wanting
                      to come home. Only 38,000 had registered but airlines calculated demand at
                      about 100,000.
        • The management of access t commercially facilitated flights aka repatriation flights was
             disgraceful.
                  o Short notice of flights. People were given 5-10 days notice of an upcoming flight,
                      had to register online and by the time a large family tried to register all seats had
                      been allocated.
                  o Flights were limited to select hubs; for our             this wa               md
                      involved trying to travel there when travel was restricted.
                  o There was n orderly queue in the allocation of flights. The fastest keyboard
                      warrior won the seats.
                  o No differentiation of different needs to return and therefore different risks.
                      Some wanted to return home to resume life and some just wanted to return to see
                      family. The first group needed to pack up to move permanently and were at risk if
                      flights were cancelled, whilst the second still had home and belongings to return
                      to if their travel plans were interrupted.
        • Long delays in getting passports renewed. The applicant had to personally attend the
             Consulate or Embassy, the Consulate in Paris did not respond to phone calls or emails, and
             there were lengthy delays to get an appointment. In our^^^^^ case, Paris was a 4
             hour train ride from home.

   How to address this problem
     •          Use the RAAF to bring people home.
     • Design and implement a better registration system to assist with:
             o Understanding the demand for assistance to return home.
             o Prioritising places on flights
     • Allow video conferencing technology for passport applications and renewals in lieu of
           physical meetings.



   Josette Mathers                       15 December 2023
