                                                                                        r accord
                                                                                        hygiene, personal care & specialty products industry




The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel:
Ms Robyn Kruk AO, Professor Catherine Bennett and Dr Angela Jackson

Email: COVID-19lnquiry(5),pmc.qov.au

Dear Panel Members,
Accord provides this submission to the independent inquiry into Australia’s response to the COVID-19
pandemic. We are pleased to provide our experience to assist the Panel’s examination of what worked well
and identify where we can make improvements to enhance our preparedness, so that we have resilient and
effective national systems and institutions to manage any future pandemic event.
Introducing Accord and our industry
Accord is the Australian national industry association representing the manufacturers and marketers of
formulated hygiene, personal care and specialty products, their raw material suppliers, and service providers.
Accord member businesses make and/or market a broad range of consumer and commercial goods that play
integral roles in safeguarding public health, promoting personal hygiene, boosting confidence and emotional
wellbeing, maintaining comfortable homes and enhancing quality of life, as well as keeping the wheels of
commerce and industry turning.

Our member businesses represent a healthy industrial ecosystem of large global multinational enterprises,
small and dynamic Australian and family-owned businesses, importers, local manufacturers and exporters.
A list of Accord member businesses is available on our website: accord.asn.au/about/members.

The formulated hygiene, cosmetic, personal care and specialty products industry is a significant industry
sector manufacturing and/or importing quality chemical-based products to thereby contribute to a prosperous
Australian economy. Our industry’s products include household and commercial cleaning agents; household
and hospital disinfectants; industrial and agricultural sanitisers; adhesives and sealants; and essential
personal care/hygiene products like oral care products, hand sanitisers and sunscreens.

Here is a snapshot of our sector’s many products:



                                   e.g. soaps, detergents, disinfectants, sanitisers                     Personal Care



                                   PERSONAL CARE & COSMETIC
                                                                                                           Home Care
                                   PRODUCTS
                                   e.g. stm protection & sun care, oral care,
                                   hair care, skin care, nail care, deodorants,
                                   tampons, wet wipes, colour cosmetics, perfumes                           Industry
                                   & colognes, depilatories


                                                                                                           healthcare
                                   OTHER SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
                                   e.g. polishes, adhesives, pest control, industrial
                                   lubricants, water treatment chemicals, food
                                                                                                          Institutions
                                   processing aids, building maintenance products,
                                   deodorisers, enzymes, dust control sprays

                                                                                                          Agriculture
                                   RAW MATERIALS/INGREDIENTS
                                   for the cleaning, hygiene and specialty
                                   products industry
                                                                                                           hospitality




                                 Accord Australasia Limited ACN 117 659 168 ABN 83 205 141 267
                                  PO Box 290 BROADWAY NSW 2007
                          Tel: 61 2 9281 2322 Fax: 61 2 9281 0366 Website: www.accord.asn.au

                                 Products for healthy living and a quality lifestyle
                                                                                                                       accord
Our industry sector’s economic value and value-add were recently measured by EY with the sector found to
be the 17th largest in the nation, having an annual industry turnover of $28.26. The sector’s headline statistics
for its economic footprint are included as follows':


        Key economic                                               HYGIENE, PERSONAL CARE AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INDUSTRY

        indicators                                                     INDUSTRY TURNOVER     JOBS           WAGES



                                                                                            72,585
        across the                                                                          employees


                                                                                            *M.5%          1*2.6%
        entire industry                                                    T2.3%
                                                                            from FY21       from FY21      from FY21


         Our industry grew over the
                                                                       INDUSTRY VALUE-ADD   IMPORTS        EXPORTS
         2022 financial year and remains
         the 17th largest industry in
         Australia, by turnover.               17th largest   1
                                           industry in Australia




Accord’s specific comments on the Inquiry’s terms of reference and relevant policy matters
Accord notes the terms of reference and our feedback focuses predominantly on the following elements:
   • Governance, including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and
       territory governments, national governance mechanisms and advisory bodies supporting responses
       to COVID-19.
   • Support for industry and businesses (for example, responding to supply chain and transport issues,
       addressing labour shortages and support for specific industries).

Given the broad range of products within the hygiene, personal care and specialty products industry sectors,
Accord’s member businesses deal with a very wide range of regulatory systems across Australia; for
example, the Australian Industrial Chemicals Introduction Scheme (AICIS), the Therapeutic Goods
Administration (TGA), the Agricultural Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA), the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), as well as Safework, to name just a few of the federal
agencies.

Across Accord’s member businesses that are currently engaged in the introduction into Australia of innovative
products and technologies, many of which are also globally available, a major barrier they face relates to
both the complexity of local regulatory requirements and the ongoing lack of alignment of many Australian
regulatory approaches to global best practice.

The complex, duplicative and often unproductive paperwork requirements across a significant range of
regulators and government departments vary in scope, nature and constitutional basis; for example, they are
often shared between Federal and State/Territory legislation. The complexities are frequently combined with
interventions that are not always calibrated appropriately to the actual risk associated with the finished
products. The impacts of such existing flaws in regulatory approaches were heightened during the COVID-
19 pandemic, when supply chain disruptions and increased needs for specific goods were expected to be
rapidly addressed.

Supply chain disruptions were experienced daily by our member businesses, some of which were surprisingly
difficult to resolve such as shortages of some excipients, small format packaging, etc. Industry only
approached government for assistance with the very difficult and important issues, working to resolve the
rest as best we could and finding innovative solutions—where regulations allowed.

The work of regulators, their departmental policy colleagues and of course public servants more generally, is
extremely important and is highly valued by our industry and Accord. Unfortunately, direct dialogue—for

                                                                                                                            Page 2 of 4
                                                                                            raccord
example, to expand the understanding of how the regulated industry works, its current challenges and/or how
the various regulatory systems could be best improved or tailored to mitigate the key barriers without
compromising the fundamental objectives of the legislation—is not always actively sought by these key
government stakeholders.

However, we would like to showcase some positive examples of industry/government engagement and more
active collaboration that arose as a direct consequence of the pandemic. We hope these could serve as
exemplars of the positive outcomes of such engagement and the timely benefits that can be derived.

   •   The prompt establishment and indeed continuation of the Department of Industry, Science, Energy
       and Resources (DISER)/Office of Supply Chain Resilience (OSCR) Supply Chain Roundtable was
       invaluable during the crisis period as it facilitated the sharing of critical information and management
       opportunities across a broad range of stakeholders simultaneously. The frequently convened virtual
       meetings of the Roundtable enabled issues to be readily identified and any specific regulators, sectors
       and/or businesses particularly affected to be more actively engaged.

       It enabled efficient and timely dissemination of information and experience, intelligence to be shared
       and relative policy options and actions to be debated between government and industry, all of which
       were critical to the stakeholders being able to optimise their respective roles in and responses to the
       various supply chain issues that arose.

       For these reasons, the Roundtable remains important still, in relation to optimising supply chain
       resilience across all the sectors and across various periods of ongoing stress in the system throughout
       the post-pandemic years.

   •   The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)’s performance and responses were similarly impressive
       during the pandemic period, noting particularly their open access and dialogue with Accord and/or the
       relevant therapeutic product suppliers experiencing COVID-related supply chain issues—in our case
       frequently impacting critical manufacture and/or supply of hand sanitisers and disinfectants.

       The TGA’s flexibility, practical and very timely responses to the key issues identified by our industry
       throughout the period successfully addressed a range of issues, for example:

           o   ingredient supply shortages (e.g., emollients) and the development of a new streamlined
               regulatory path for products meeting the WHO hand sanitiser monograph ensured that a range
               of vital products were kept available.

           o   development and introduction of acceptable test methodology for COVID claims for
               disinfectants in close dialogue with industry experts enabled businesses to formulate and
               supply with speed and confidence.

           o   permitting claims for effectiveness against COVID on approved products and providing a list
               on the TGA’s website to assist consumers and businesses in finding and using appropriate
               products was extremely valuable and transparent.

           o   higher profile regulatory compliance activity and the publication of the outcomes served to
               maintain both public health and industry confidence in the products that were available.

We would add that it was also our experience during the pandemic—dealing with such a plethora of regulatory
systems and the range of guidance developed—that a more timely and relevant solution and information was
more frequently developed where the federal agency and/or a single department took the lead to actively
engage with the relevant industry, for example by tapping into contemporary expertise and experience and
addressing the multiple issues as they arose across the period, even where the legislative power may have
been held across many, such as states & territories.


                                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
                                                                                             raccord
Accord notes that there are now moves to embed the concept of continuous improvement in Australian
regulation, partly through adoption of the concept of regulatory stewardship into the Australian Public Service
(see www.requlatorvreform.qov.au/priorities/requlatorv-stewardship ). This is an initiative we fully support,
and we applaud the Government for developing and implementing this measure.

We also welcome news within the recently released Mid-year Economic and Financial Outlook (MYEFO),
that the Government has committed to supporting the Simplified Trade System work to reduce red tape,
duplication and barriers to two-way trade. Also welcome is the announcement of a Revitalised Regulatory
Reform Agenda. This will commence from mid-2024 and funds have been allocated over three years to ‘drive
(regulator) integrity and innovation, ensure regulation is fit-for-purpose in a digital era, protect against
regulatory failures and improve productivity’.

While you would imagine such initiatives would ensure that proper engagement and consultative processes
are included within the fundamental functioning of all of Australia’s regulatory systems and across the public
service, this has not been our experience with other such programs. Rather, we find that often the confidence
and regularity with which regulators or departments engage with their regulated businesses is frequently ad
hoc, and key person dependent. Nor is the contemporary expertise and experience held within businesses
routinely recognised.

We therefore welcome the Panel’s consideration of the need for increased engagement and collaboration
between all levels of government, regulators and industry, and to explore mechanisms to embed such cultural
change, to better ensure that Australian policy and regulatory approaches align to further strengthen our
combined responsiveness and resilience in the face of any forthcoming crisis and/or further pandemic.

On behalf of Accord’s member businesses, the opportunity to provide this submission and our views on this
important issue is greatly appreciated. We wish Panel members well in their deliberations during this Inquiry.

Yours sincerely,

<Unsigned for electronic transmission>

Bronwyn Capanna
Executive Director

EY Report - https://accord.asn.au/about/economic-state-of-the-industrv-report/




                                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
