I am dr                   chiropractor with a special interest in wellness and disease
prevention. I am a practitionerwith^^^H experience and currently practice in
                  the past ^^^^flnmytime here I have cared for many thousands of
patients. In my ^^^■experience I have cared for 10’s of thousands of patients aiding
them to greater health, vitality and quality of life.

In practice I was able to witness and chronicle first hand the impacts that the response to
Covid had upon my patients. It is clear that many, many mistakes had been made with
regard to 1. "Key health response measures" as well as 2. “governance." Therefore I will
be focusing my attention on these topics in this submission with frequent overlap. I will
make no distinction between the 2 topics.

First, with regards to public health messaging surrounding covid-19, an inordinate volume
of fear was used by both media and bureaucrats. Starting in early January 2020 continuing
to some degree to the present moment, fear was to be the primary tool utilised in public
health messaging. For months, entire news cycles were dedicated to nothing other than
Covid-19. Covid fear was promoted everywhere at every opportunity 24 hours per day, 7
days per week. One could not even open a web browser on their computer without seeing
some kind of Covid-19 fear messaging.

Within my practice the fear was palpable. Although we were able to stay open, many
people suspended care out of fear of contracting the infection. Those that did continue
care expressed their anxiety an^ropidation. Many reported increased symptomatology
directly related to stress_Asa^^^^^^B I could literally feel the increased anxiety in
                   I check                 and                     al I day, everyday. Emotional
stress is a significant driver of tension in the body. Stress is a major factor in the
development of dysfunction, pain and disease.

Government and health bureaucrats did little to allay the societal angst. In fact, the
government did their best to help promote fear and anxiety. Every single day state
Premieres would hold press conferences with their chief health officers announcing the
days latest grim statistics. Covid-19 cases and death statistics would be proclaimed to the
press who would break from their usual broadcast to live stream the daily theatre.

Fear is a highly destructive emotion. The damaging physiological effects anxiety has upon
the body are well documented. Conditions including but certainly not limited too;
cardiovascular events, cerebrovascular events, diabetes, immune suppression, mental
and emotional disorders are all associated to anxiety and fear. Yet the fear continued
despite the fact that it was quickly understood that covid was of little threat to the
overwhelming majority people under the age of 70 except those with serious underlying
co-morbidities.

One of the biggest losers in the Covid-19 key health responses was actual science itself.
Existing pandemic preparedness plans, based upon scientific research, never called for
lockdowns, quarantining of healthy populations or rushing a poorly tested, emergency use
vaccine. There is little to no support in the scientific literature for all of the measures thrust
upon Australians during Covid-19. For example, masking was an early go to pandemic
measure that was not well supported with science and data. Wearing a mask may have
provided a little comfort to those wearing them but in the real world offered an insignificant
level of benefit at best. A meta-analysis performed by the Cochrane Review prior to Covid
clearly stated that the science that existed showed no appreciable benefit to masking
against influenza like illness. A further follow up post covid by the Cochrane Review,
utilising new data, came to the same conclusion. Yet still today, people are encouraged to
wear masks.

Other unscientific mitigating strategies were employed including social distancing, contact
tracing and lockdowns. Healthy asymptomatic people were prevented from working and
going about their business. Healthy people, that tested negative for covid, were forced into
mandatory quarantine upon arrival in the country. Meanwhile, sane and sensible
approaches to help protect the vulnerable (primarily the elderly) were ignored. The Great
Barrington Declaration offered sound guidance to protect the vulnerable. However, rather
than open debate, the authors and the plan were ridiculed and misrepresented by media
and health bureaucrats alike.

Almost non existent in the covid-19 discourse was a real and scientific discussion around
health and immune supporting activities. What little information was shared was drowned
out by the perpetual fear recommendations. Simple and powerful recommendations could
and should have been promoted at every opportunity but they were not. For example,
immune supporting vitamin D, Vitamin C and zinc could have been recommended to
ensure the population was sufficient in these vital nutrients. The value of sunshine,
exercise, and eating whole foods is so well understood in the literature for creating healthy
vital human beings. Stress reducing activities like exercise, meditation, massage and
chiropractic care all stand to reduce the damaging effects of stress on our minds, body and
immune system. Instead we listened to pundits argue that there was no scientific research
that could prove that vitamin D had any effect upon Covid-19. This argument represented
the pure stupidity in the Covid response. Of course there was no research to demonstrate
Vitamin D had any effect on a new and novel virus. But no research is necessary because
Vitamin D is not a treatment for any viral or bacterial infection. Vitamin D is a well
documented hormone required for appropriate immune function and response to assist in
the bodies innate capacity to fight infection and heal from all disease. Subsequently, an
abundance of data has emerged demonstrating that those sufficient in Vitamin D had
faired far better through covid than those who were deficient.

Perhaps the most unscientific measures deployed was the decision that vaccination was
the only pathway out of the crisis. This is absurd on many levels. Early into Covid,
messaging began to circulate that there was no effective treatment other than hiding in
place. A vaccine that did not yet exist would have to be developed to save us all from the
horrors of Covid. So let me get this straight; a product that doesn’t exist, that normally
takes 10 years to develop, is going to be created, tested and approved under emergency
use in less 12 months time. This yet to be discovered product will be distributed and
injected against a virus that normally has a life cycle of 12 months and is highly
susceptible to mutation. When the vaccines were granted emergency use authorisation,
many touted this as a medical miracle. This however is more a miracle of industry than
medicine. Medically speaking, this is a complete violation of the scientific method and all
scientific ethics.

An experimental medical product was pushed upon Australians and the world using
technology (mRNA) never before used in this way. Testing for short term side-effects was
grossly inadequate and we are still discovering the short term side effects to this day. No
long term testing had been done because the study was unblinded with control group
participants given the experimental jab. We will never have any useable long term data
from the research due to this ethically devoid practice. This makes any claim of informed
consent null and void. Informed consent is the corner stone of medical ethics. No human
being should ever be mandated, manipulated or coerced into taking any medical product
that runs the risk of injury or death.

This is in no way good scientific practice. To make matters worse, manipulation was used
on top of the fear to get people to comply with the vaccination mandates. Semantics has
been used by politicians and bureaucrats alike to deny that the vaccine was forced upon
the population. But heavy handed threats and violations of basic human rights were
employed to drive people into taking the product. This kind of behaviour is a gross and
disturbing indictment of the vial tactics utilised by elected government officials and health
bureaucrats alike.

In the past 3 years, since the covid-19 vaccines (gene therapy) have been available, I
have had dozens of patients report what they believed to be side effects to the vaccines.
Some of these reports have seemed quite mild or benign in nature including injection site
reactions. Others have reported more serious reactions like falling ill with flu like symptoms
for several days, contracting covid itself, chronic headache and malaise post vaccine.
Several had reported severe reactions that required hospitalisation, with symptoms
including; long term persistent migraine, stroke, loss of appetite, tachycardia, heart failure,
myocarditis, chronic fatigue and weakened immune response to name a few.

In my estimation, the response to Covid-19 has caused immeasurable damage to
Australia. The psychological harms alone caused by the disgraceful use of fear through
this event may not be seen for years to come. This was done for an infectious disease that
I and most people I speak with do not know a single person personally that has died. I
have thousands of patients and hundreds of friends in both Australia and the United States
and I am not aware of single death of my personal friends or acquaintances. I do not deny
people have died from this disease but the average age of death from Covid has been on
par with the average age of death from all cause mortality.

I offer no references for my claims and concerns. Firstly, many others far more qualified
than I will be providing data that substantiate my stance and opinions. Secondly I hold out
little hope that this inquiry will take any real head of concerns from myself or others that
implicate the government in a reckless and harmful covid response. But the truth is coming
out. Regardless of the findings of this clandestine inquiry, eventually the truth finds its way.
