                    SUBMISSION TO COVID 19 RESPONSE INQUIRY.

 There are several concerning issues that I would like to address:

1.    The severe and disproportionate effects on children. Even though there was evidence
     that children would not be as adversely affected by the virus, they were forced into
     mandatory isolation, deprived of education at a time when they needed it most. This has
     had a major impact on their social and emotional well being and also their educational
     prospects, which will in turn affect their career paths and future success and prosperity.
     A royal commission into this should make this a primary focus of their enquiries.


2.    The erosion of personal bodily autonomy and the right to determine the specific
     medical treatment needed by an individual was taken away. The patient doctor
     relationship was overridden and the government interfered in an area where it has no
     right to do so. The government mandated vaccines and other draconian health
     measures with little or no scientific evidence to support these actions. Again I call for a
     royal commission into all the rights and the effects of these measures.

3.    The mental health of the elderly in nursing homes was severely impacted by visiting
     restrictions, lockdowns and the like. I was personally distressed to be forced into taking
     a vaccine that I was not comfortable with in order to visit my elderly mother with
                  and then watched her health decline as I was given a restricted 1 hour per
     week visit. These conditions adversely affected the nursing home when staffing was
     reduced by many carers and nurses retiring early or resigning because of the stress of
     the new working conditions. I watched helplessly as these conditions worsened and the
     health of many vulnerable residents was compromised, including my own mother.
     Obviously a royal commission into the effects of the Covid 19 responses on Aged Care
     facilities is needed to accurately assess all the reasons that such mistakes were made
     and implemented.

4.    The adverse effect on social cohesion in our nation with sharp divisions and animosities
     arising within families, social groups of many kinds such as faith communities and
     sporting clubs. This has been brought about by the dubious measures and messaging
     which created consequences much longer lasting than the virus itself. Families are still
     struggling with this. Again, a royal commission into these strategies and the impact of
     them socially, needs to happen.
