12 December 2023




TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN




Dear Sir/Madam



This is to confirm my request and support for a full enquiry into the Covid-19 Pandemic
debacle and all related mandates, lock-downs and other negative responses from the state
and federal governments, against the population of Australia and in particular those who
chose to not have the 'jabs'.

Firstly, for many decades at least, doctors have said that you can't vaccinate against a virus.
And yet suddenly, covid-19 has a vaccination I Not sure how that defies all medical facts?

Secondly, I had unnecessary reactions to having to wear a mask every time I had to leave my
home, due to unresearched and unfounded mandates that defy all logic. After having to
wear a mask for more than 10 minutes and on several occasions, I almost passed out and
had to remove the mask to simply stay conscious. My GP at the time gave me a certificate
exempting me from having to wear one.

Thirdly, my mental health has suffered greatly because I was discriminated against, simply
 because "I" chose to not have these unsafe, untested (many that factually failed safety!)
jabs, that were allegedly optional.

After having one Novavax jab, I suddenly came out of menopause (some 3 years later) and
had 2 unnecessary bleeds! Having to then undergo 2 hysteroscopies to try and find a cause
(neither found anything to explain same), I now have lesions on my vagina, causing me
irritation.

Fourthly, since the lockdowns and all of the crimes against humanity and my right to live as I
have always done so, now leaves me unable to get a job. I am financially ruined and
employers will not even give me the courtesy of an interview! And why? Because I am not
considered to have "current" skils or knowledge!
I seek answers, and I seek financial compensation, because I am not able to live as I could
have if not for the unnecessary heavy-handed manner the state and federal governments
took, in favour of the greedy megalomanical behaviour and attitude of the Big Pharmas.

Regards
