Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

My response addresses the following terms of reference:

    •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
        governments.
    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, and public
        health messaging)

I am                 involved in research that                                             I have qualifications in
                               | I am making my submission in the hope that this inquiry investigates the serious
issues I raise below in order to avoid the failures that arose out of the previous COVID-19 pandemic handling.

Government Overreach

There was evidence of government overreach with mandated vaccinations, particularly when it came to
vaccination of front-line medical workers and those involved in the service industry. Employees in both of these
industries were given a stark choice between employment by getting vaccinated or join the unemployment queue if
they chose the moral high ground. It is important under the context above to remember that the then Prime
minister, Mr Scott Morrison said that vaccines were not mandatory (especially as they were experimental, for
emergency use only and had not formally been approved by the regulator).

What is particularly riling is that Queensland government ministers were exempt from vaccination and so were the
Judiciary in Victoria. This shows the hypocrisy of our leadership. One rule for our politicians and one rule for the
masses.

Government interfered in the doctor - patient relationship

Alternative treatments were unsanctioned and doctors explicitly threatened if they prescribed alternatives to the
Government's wishes. I am talking about Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine used in conjunction with vitamin D,
vitamin C and zinc. Such treatments when used early enough could have helped reduce the burden on our
hospitals. India was able to get on top of their countries major outbreak (it was out of control with funeral pyres in
every state ) by issuing to their population packets containing ivermectin, vitamin D, C and Zinc. Refer to YouTube
video with additional references https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eO9cjy3Rydc. Such a course of action went
against the WHO recommendation at the time but it worked. I would ask the inquiry to think about this WHO
action, who was behind the WHO messaging and which individual(s) and bodies were providing advice and/or
funding.

We have to ask the question why was government so fixated on a single treatment option that only benefited the
pharmaceutical industry? There was evidence of collusion at a global scale with many countries taking a similar
action, such as labelling ivermectin as horse medicine and actively discourage the use of this off label product -
industry does not make any serious money from it. Even today the TGA wrongfully claims it is not useful against
COVID-19. Peer reviewed research is available that provides scientific rationale to explain how it can be effective in
early treatment of Covid-19. It involves in part the ACE-2 receptor - this peer reviewed publication provides more
details https://www.nature.com/articles/s41429-021-00491-6 and https://www.monash.edu/discovery-
institute/news-and-events/news/2020-articles/Lab-experiments-show-anti-parasitic-drug,-Ivermectin,-eliminates-
1-12     ji zl!      in          However, this information has been suppressed. Why?

The inquiry should also investigate what role did big pharma have in blocking its use? This is a highly contentious
issue with industry captured "alphabet" regulators (CDC, FDA, TGA etc.) around the world still insisting it is not
effective. One also needs to look at the studies that show no effectiveness in relation to who funded the study and
when the drug was administered. Ivermectin has been shown not to be effective if taken too late in the infection
lifecycle.

Draconian and dystopian policies

Draconian lock down policies which did not work created significant but unnecessary anxiety and suffering.
Prevented people from visiting family's interstate, from attending funerals of loved ones who has passed away.
School children, who were not at serious risk from COVID were prevented from going to school. Whole industries
were affected by lockdowns and border closures that did not stop the spread of infection and destroyed many
businesses.

Misinformation, Disinformation and malinformation

The public was not fully informed of the vaccine risks or covid-19 health risks accurately (particularly mortality
(death from covid-19) which was being overstated to push people to get vaccinated - a severe case of "fear^^|).
Misinformation was, and still is rife on this subject and is not limited to the general public but with the Government
and mainstream media being implicated,Fact checking sites funded by big pharma, social
media giants colluding with governments to control the message. Lies and more lies were spewed forth by vested
interests. No discussion and no debate which is something one would expect in countries with authoritarian
regimes not a western democracy.

Even today, the Government is still spruiking mRNA vaccines as safe and effective. One only needs to look at the
TGA database to see this is not an accurate reflection with prominent safety signals being presented (neurological
and cardiological) - refer to separate document (this was from October 2021 when I was actively monitoring the
statistics), which under normal circumstances would have seen the removal of such risky products. A related but
taboo subject is the unprecedented rise in excess mortality, particularly in the younger age groups. The contribution
of the vaccine to this unexplained increase is yet to be fully explored and Covid-19 infections are not the sole
culprit. Only now we are starting to see that there were coverups and poor testing protocols adopted by big
pharma. Evidence that regulatory agencies are captured by vested interests. This has created an atmosphere of
distrust that will be a hindrance for future pandemic handling unless this is addressed diligently and in a transparent
manner.

Discrimination

Discrimination against those who were pro-choice was a major problem during the pandemic not helped by the
rhetoric coming from the Government and the media, particularlyThose who chose not to be vaccinated
were denied entry to social venues and vilified in the media and bullied by uninformed members of the public.

In both cases, Government overreach was obvious with decisions being made that undermine democratic processes
and prevent the public from having a say. We were being told that to be unvaccinated put others at risk (including
people who were vaccinated which is completely unscientific - the purpose of any vaccine is to protect against a
viral or bacterial agent). People who are concerned they might get infected and wanted to protect themselves could
choose to be vaccinated. Any effective vaccine would have provided a high level of protection. Another major issue
was the lack of government recognition of those who naturally acquired immunity through previous infection and
were still required to get vaccinated which is non sensical. Government was also suggesting that vaccine immunity
is superior which of course is ridiculous and has since been disproven.

Vaccine ineffective! Responsible for new strains?

What has since been discovered is that the gene therapy dressed up as a vaccine did not prevent infection nor did it
stop the vaccinated individual from shedding the virus (when infected) and passing on to others. Rather it is claimed
that it reduced the symptoms and therefore reduced the pressure on our hospital system (initially this was the case,
but subsequent outbreaks became a pandemic of the vaccinated). However, being vaccinated may have also
contributed to super spreader events due to an infected vaccinated person having a false sense of security, being
allowed to go to public venues. Remembering unvaccinated people were barred from entering social venues in
some states.

Requiring people to get boosters when the boosters were not even designed for the mutated versions and had very
little short-term effectiveness demonstrating ignorance and short sightedness of our decision makers.

The major problem with the mRNA gene therapy is multi factorial.

    1) Unlike traditional vaccines which use an inactive virus and therefore have multiple features of the original
       virus that the immune system can target, mRNA gene therapies produced a single feature - i.e., spike
       protein. Targeting this single feature becomes ineffective if the virus experiences mutations in this region.
    2) The spike protein is toxic as shown in peer review research and the "vaccine" programmed our cells to
       create it. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC10452662/
    3)   May contribute to what is known as "original antigenic sin" making people who are vaccinated more
         vulnerable to future mutated strains as we are now currently seeing
         https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Original antigenic sin

Children were never at risk and should never have been encouraged to get vaccinated. Even the previous
Queensland CHO, Dr Jannette Young stated this before she was ushered out of her role as CHO and "promoted" to
Queensland Governor. ^^^^Byoung people who developed pericarditis after their first injection of Pfizer mRNA
vaccine. Others have died who might be still alive today if they had not been injected with the experimental gene
therapy.

We are also now finding out that|
                                  flio make matters worse, Australia blindly followed the US.

                                 .Ay-'.''J.;:~ should never have been called a vaccine as it
does not fit the 'original' definition of a vaccine. I do note that the CDC changed the definition so that mRNA
injectables could be classified as a vaccine.^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Hl felt insufficient testing had been performed

                                                                                          H Early research
suggested the spike protein was responsible for many of the health issues being seen in COVID-19 infected patients
and here we are injecting mRNA into our bodies to create the very same spike protein.

Lack of transparency and accountability

The Commonwealth government signed a secret deal witi^details of the agreement were kept under wraps
and away from public scrutiny under the auspices of national security.

"The COVID-19 pandemic is one of the most manipulated infectious disease events in history, characterized by
official lies in an unending stream lead by government bureaucracies, medical associations, medical boards, the
media, and international agencies." https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9062939/

Decisions made by government were not supported by sound science.

World is faced with a cancer tidal wave

We are now starting to hear of stories of turbo cancers https://www.ajmc.com/view/kashyap-patel-md-sees- link-
between-covid-19-and-cancer-progres5ion-calls-for-more-biomarker-testing. The jury is out on whether the covid-
19 vaccine has also contributed to such events, of course, there are sites actively denying such claims - the very
same sites that claimed the vaccine is "safe and effective". Who to believe when science is for sale and our
government and media are in denial .

Recommendations:

The vaccines should always have been primarily targeted at the vulnerable people only, which includes the infirm
and elderly. Even then, those who are considered to be vulnerable should have been given a choice rather than
forced.

It is instructive for the Government to not only taking advice from epidemiologists but to also listen to
"independent [from industry]" immunologists. It is clear based on the messaging that Government twisted science
to support their agenda and this needs to be investigated properly in order to rebuild trust.

An inquiry into the independence and autonomy of the TGA should also be considered.

Investigate who made the decisions, what were their qualifications and do they have perceived or actual conflicts of
interest (with big Pharma)? Who instructed the Government to dismiss alternate, but safer treatments?

What involvement did the WHO have in our Government actions? Is this going to be our future where we lose
national control of our health strategies as authority is passed onto an international organisation that is accountable
to no-one. WHO has been negligent in the past with handling of epidemics and pandemics, has shown to be heavily
influenced from those with vested interests (industry and private foundations linked to billionaires). Safeguards
need to be put in place to avoid future mishandling, undue suffering and corruption of science by vested interests
especially when it comes to signing any form of pandemic treaty.
De;

The planned treatment by the Queensland Australian Labour Party (ALP) Government of people who are
unvaccinated (to Covid-19) is immoral and unethical. In a sense, we are moving towards a medical
apartheid and a dystopian society where dissent is crushed and people suffer unnecessarily. Such policies
seriously violate basic Human rights, such as the right not to be experimented on (Covid-19 vaccines are
experimental), the right to have freedom of movement, the right to health, the right to privacy and the
right to work. The restrictions that are planned by the ALP for the unvaccinated, such as prohibiting
unvaccinated people from attending social and sporting events and from using non-essential services
breaches these basic human rights laws. Furthermore, to force/coerce people to take an experimental
"vaccine" is explicitly in violation of the Nuremberg code.

The planned restrictions will have no impact on the spread of the virus (see below). Claiming that this is
all forthe common good is unconscionable and reeks of hypocrisy. I amj
understandingo                                       Using my expertise I present below clear evidence of a
lack of critical thinking by many people in Government, media and the majority of the population who
seem to be blindly following orders.

Today, there are only a handful of cases of Covid-19 in Queensland. We have no restrictions for local
residents and there have been no majoroutbreaks or problems arising from the current rules. Therefore,
there is no justification for enforcing these newly planned draconian measures. As far as I can tell, there
has been no discussion or debate in parliament or the media around this issue. Government over-reach is
quite obvious in this case.

You are a sitting member of the current ruling party and my electorates' public representative. I am
hoping you can respond to the issues below surrounding the underlying assumptions behind the
proposed restrictions:

      1.   There is a false assumption that the current covid vaccines are fully effective and that it is the only
           way we can geton top of this so called "pandemic." In fact, in contradiction to these claims, there
           are other countries with high vaccination rates (UK and Israel) that are experiencing huge 3rd or
           4th waves. People who are vaccinated are still catching Covid-19, spreading Covid-19, ending up in
           hospital ICU and dying. In some countries it is becoming a pandemic of the vaccinated.
      2.   We are told that vaccine efficiency wains very quickly and a booster is required. However,
           boosters are unlikely to be very effective given the specificity of the vaccines (to the original
                (variant's Covid-19 spike protein) and the mutations that are occurring in the virus,
      3. There is an assumption that the vaccines are safe. Yet we are seeing an increase in the incid i r ce
           of young men and boys who now have damaged hearts (i.e., pericarditis and myocarditis). I have
           witnessed first-hand such an event with a young and healthy^^^^^^^^^|being affected by
          a Pfizervaccine (firstdose), with his career now in jeopardy. Most parents remain unaware of this
          risk when getting their children Covid-19 vaccinated.
      4. I have investigated the Therapeutics Goods Association's (TGA) database for vaccine adverse
          reactions, by comparing adverse reactions and death to the influenza "flu" vaccine versus Covid-
           19 vaccines. What I found is very concerning: the number of Covid-19 vaccine adverse reactions
           are ~10times higherand deaths ~17times higherthan Flu vaccines (see data in separate
           document) forthe same number of inoculations The public is not being informed of this
           information. In a normal, sane world, these vaccineswould have been halted a longtime ago. The
           TGA and the Governmentcontinue to down play the seriousness of this issue, acknowledging only
           a small number of adverse events that can, in most cases, be treated (blood clots) and claiming,
           falsely, that Covid-19 vaccines are safe.
      5.   We have no understanding of the long-term health effects of these gene therapies because we
           cut short manyof thetestingand approval steps. By forcingall people to be vaccinated will mean
         there is no control pool to compare against, thereby preventing us from objectively evaluatingthe
         long-term effects to health caused by the vaccine. Will government compensate those who
         develop a functional impairment, immune disorder, cancer or other disease that could develop
         many years down the track as a result of the vaccine? I think not, due to highly restrictive statute
         of limitations. Government requires proof for vaccine injury compensation which will be
         extremely difficult to satisfy if there is a latent disease linked to the Covid vaccine.
    6.   Blanket vaccination of people at low risk of severe illness is likely to hamperthe development of
         more-robust natural immunity gained across a population from infection to deal with future
         variants. Instead, these current vaccines are likely to impairthe human immune system world­
         wide and make the global population more vulnerable to new strains. This possibility is being
         suggested by eminent immunologists (instead, governments are quoting epidemiologists who are
         simply looking at stats that can only provide useful information ft 'the event).
    7.   Natural immunity is not being considered when it comes to vaccination status. Natural immunity
         in those who have caught Covid-19 and survived is far superior and longer lasting than that
         provided by the current crop of Covid-19 vaccines.


Coupled with the above issues are problems with Covid-19 vaccines that are available today and include:

    1.   High specificity to a single feature on the virus - the S spike protein. This has resulted in pressure
         on the virus to mutate and escape the immune system response. Vaccines may have been highly
         effective against the original Covid-19 Alpha strain but are much less effective against newer
         strains (such as the Delta strain). Giving boosterswill not solve this issue unless the booster shots
         have been modified to protect against new mutated strains, which currently they are not.
    2.   The coding by DN^^^^^^^^^^and mRNA^^^Jforthe S spike protein is another potential
         problem. Peer reviewed research is suggesting that the spike protein is damaging epithelial cells
         and disruptingthe blood brain barrier. Manyof the pathological effects seen in Covid-19 infected
         patients may in fact be due to the spike protein which is also coded in the vaccines to make the
         same protein. This explainsthe similarity seen between symptoms of Covid and adverse reaction
         symptoms observed in some people who have received the Covid vaccine.
    3.   Doctors and nurses who are administering the vaccine are not aspirating the needle prior to
         injecting the vaccine into the muscle. The purpose for aspiration is to validate whether needle is
         in fact in the muscle or whether it has penetrated a blood vessel. Many of the more serious
         vaccine injuries (neurological, cardiological and gastrointestinal) are likely due to the vaccine
         inadvertently entering the blood stream.

There is an assumption that the only way to deal with Covid-19 is via vaccination. All other medical
options are not currently being considered or are being actively suppressed. Alternative treatments do
exist, which have been demonstrated to be successful in randomised trials and used with great success in
controlling outbreaks overseas. For example, Ivermectin, together with Zinc, and Vitamin C, and Vitamin
D, have been shown to be very effective in blunting the effects of Covid-19 especially if used as a
prophylaxis or early treatment as witnessed by its use in India early this year when Covid-19 was out of
control. There are numerous peer reviewed science and media articles to support this claim of
effectiveness (which I can provide on request).

In Australia, the TGA has instructed doctors that they cannot prescribe ivermectin as a prophylaxis or use
in early treatment of Covid-19 cases. Why is this effective treatment being quashed? Today, we have
mainstream media and the Government spreading misinformation and relying on junk science to portray
this medicine as not being useful in the fight against Covid-19. It is also presented as a 'horse de-wormer'
and other emotive laden words to downplay its medicinal capabilities particularly its anti-viral properties.
Safety data for Ivermectin shows side effects are significantly small. When reviewing the latest statistics
available from VigiAccess, there have been reported 5,674 adverse drug reactions to Ivermectin between
1992 and October 13, 2021. This is "incredibly low" number given that 3.7 billion doses have been
administered since the 1980s. Compared to the70,000+ adverse events for some 30+ million doses of
Covid-19 vaccines administered in Australia.

The Attorney Generalof Nebraska,recently issued a legal opinion in support of the use of
Ivermectin as treatment option for Covid-19, going against what the FDA and CDC are recommending.




                                                                                              his example
demonstrates the blatant misuse of science to steer people away from using alternate modalities that are
effective and push people in one direction: that all need to be vaccinated. A problem that is perhaps
linked to vested interests ratherthan public health.

Instead of being publicised and made available, alternatives are being rubbished by media and dismissed
by what can only be best be described as govern me nt/media pseudo-science. One can only speculate that
this is happening because there is no money to be made by using these alternate products, or, the terms
are being dictated by pharmaceutical companies as part of their secret agreements with the Federal
Government. However, such speculation and suspicion of Government motives will remain unresolved if
the Government does not come clean with all the details of the agreements made. Such disclosure is
being blocked by Government as it is declared to be a "national security issue", however disclosure is
necessary to rebuild public trust, a trait that is clearly lacking as demonstrated by public sentiment and
the recent rallies held all overthe country. Transparency and disclosure are demanded particularly when
it is public funds that are being used. All Queenslanders have a right to know. Politicians are public
servants (not corporate servants) who are duty boundto be answerable to the people, not the otherway
around.

From their inception, Covid-19 vaccines have been introduced with coercion and a lack of discussion and
debate. Alternate viewpoints have not been presented fairly, particularly when they question the
government narrative. The issue of vaccination status has also become very emotional. People who
choose to be pro-choice are being stigmatised by the Government and mainstream media, leading to
pubic shaming and bullying, which is unconscionable. When alternative viewpoints and concerns are
presented, they are actively dismissed with factually challenged statements and propaganda that frame
"dissenters" as wacky "anti-vaxx" conspiracy theorists or other offensive and demeaning terms. This
behaviour is very un-Australian and needs to stop.

People who are exercising their basic rights by choosing not to be vaccinated should not be demonised
and prejudiced against, especially since the Prime Minister said the vaccine will not be mandated. Given
the vaccine is not officially mandated by the Federal Government, and are proven to be ineffective in
stop ping the virus (breakthrough cases), why all the coercion and bullying? Another agenda appears to be
in play as suggested by all the above issues of coercion, a campaign of misinformation, an overstating of
risks of the virus (especially in relation to our children), the carefully crafted rhetoric that is being pushed
out across many communication channels, the unprecedent censorship, obfuscation of vaccine injuries,
the one sided story, the lack of debate, the active suppression of other adjunct and active methods for
controlling the virus, the denial of basic human rights with vaccine passports and secrecy behind the
vaccine deals. If not another agenda, then what we are experiencing is incompetence and irrational
leadership that is resulting in the dismemberment and destruction of our society. Do you as my local
government member choose to be part of that leadership team?

Conclusion
What is clearly lacking today is open and honest leadership that puts constitutional rights, human rights,
 peer-reviewed science and public health first. Unfortunately, our current government is sadly failing in
these areas. The dystopian plan suggested by the Queensland Labour Government has no solid
justifications to support it and is not lawful. As a society we need to be respectful of people's right to
choose, we need to explore other safer alternative options that are not limited to just vaccine treatments.
We need to acknowledge as well as be more compassionate and supportive of those who have been
injured bya Covid-19 vaccine ratherthan ignoring or down playing their side ofthe story. I requestyou dig
deeper into this issue like Federal senator,^^^^^^^^^|and get back to me with what you, as my
government representative, plan to do.

I am available to discuss any of the points above and should you require further documentary evidence
for my claims that I have made I can provide
