14th December 2023



My name is Karen Robertson.

I write to you today to voice my concerns about the governments proposed Covid Inquiry.

An inquiry - such as the one we had in Victoria, to get to the bottom of the Hotel Quarantine
debacle, turned out to be a total waste of time and tax payer's money. We need nothing short of a
Royal Commission to get anywhere near the bottom of the mismanagement that has led our country
to the dire situation that we find ourselves today.

The way the pandemic was dealt with has proven to have been mismanaged at every turn. I hope
that a Royal Commission can investigate:

    •   Why many of my friends were forced to leave their jobs and forgo their income if they did
        not comply with the vaccine mandates that were so heavily pushed. Many friends felt they
        could not provide informed consent, and in fact, had formed the opinion based on
        information from highly credentialed specialists (such as Phillip Altman, Peter McCulloch and
        Julian Gillespie and Robert Clancy), that the vaccines were neither safe, nor effective. They
        have been proven correct on both counts. The lessons from the Nuremburg trials have been
        clearly ignored.
    •   Why the government decided to purchase so many vaccines - despite the fact that they
        were not properly tested, and furthermore, gave the manufacturers of the vaccine's
        indemnity for any future damage the vaccine may cause.
    •   Why the media has been so complicit in the censorship of any voice that questions the
        science, regardless of the correctness of their opinion. And why the media was incentivised
        to propagandise the fear factor to ensure that everyone complied.
    •   Why the government continued to quote the mantra that the vaccines were 'safe and
        effective' despite knowing that the pre-roll out trials demonstrated that the virus was still
        transmissible despite vaccination. Herd immunity was never a possibility, yet this was the
        reasoning that was given for everyone to comply, - to protect grandma. It didn't protect
        grandma. It just created division.
    •   Why young children were targeted for vaccination, despite having virtually zero risk of
        having a serious illness from covid.
    •   Why doctors were silenced and threatened with loss of registration if they did not support
        the roll out of vaccines.
    •   Why victims of vaccine injury have struggled to gain any support and were instead gas-lit to
        believe that their injuries were a result of 'long covid', or anxiety, rather than the known
        vaccine injuries that were demonstrated in the trials.
    •   Why the decision was made to provide such a short time frame for submissions to this
        proposed inquiry.

I hope that the government, who is democratically elected to represent me, will ensure that the
transparency they claim to uphold, will be demonstrated through a real investigation, with real
outcomes that we can learn from so that we can implement real change to improve our future
safety as well as confidence in our law makers and government representatives.

Karen Robertson
