15/12/2023



I am writing to inform you of my concerns regarding the recent pandemic, in particular the way
vaccines were mandated for anyone who wanted to retain their employment, the way Government
across all levels deemed it necessary to vaccinate our young people, and the lack of transparency
regarding decisions associated with lockdowns, mask mandates and stay-at-home orders.

Why is it, with the number of COVID deaths higher over the past 2 years than in 2020/21, there is no
current pandemic response, no lockdowns, no mask mandates, no vaccine mandates? One would
have to question whether this whole COVID response was nothing more than a huge exercise in
population control.

It was quite clear from early 2020 that COVID was only of major concern to people over the age of
70, and those with pre-existing health conditions. Figures from ABS showed consistently that people
under the age of 20 had virtually nothing to be concerned about. Current figures show that 0.1% of
COVID deaths occurred in the under 20 age group, which represents 24% of the Australian
population. Additionally, the Government response to vaccine injury has been designed to be so
convoluted and non-user friendly the only assumption that can be made is that there is something to
hide. Instances of major injury occurring as a result of administering a non-proven, untested vaccine
to more than 90% of the Australian population needs to be fully investigated and exposed.
Additionally, compensation needs to be paid to anyone who has had a major, lifechanging reaction to
vaccines.

It was also quite evident very early on that outdoor activities were extremely low risk, yet our State
Governments insisted on stopping most forms of outdoor activities, confining people to indoors
where the risk of contracting COVID was at its highest. The health guidelines for each state justifying
these decisions has never been made public.

Australia deserves nothing short of a full Royal Commission into the decisions made and abuses of
power made by all levels of Government and the Public Service.
