Registered as a Registered Nurse 2004/2005.
Permanent part-time employment granted 2009 as a Practice Nurse and also
Receptionist at a private practice in Queensland.
Early 2020 saw a huge impact on our workings at the Practice with the introduction
of Covid-19, and restrictions and workings. It was an incredibly stressful time with
changes to procedures, work spaces, use of intolerable carbon dioxide exacerbating
masks etc etc,., and the amount of foot traffic was the highest I had ever seen during
lockdowns with people desperate for scripts and fear of running out of medications.

In April 2021 I was aware that the impact from Covid19 was only slightly worst than a
bad influenza year and I couldn’t understand why the World Health Organisation in
individual countries had pushed for a “Pandemic" status including Australia.
In mid 2020 I read a small study from France in a nursing home where people were
given Ivermectin for scabies at a time when Covid-19 struck their facility and they
had a remarkable survival rate amongst their elderly residents. I also found another
article at around the same time whereby elderly residents in 2 Spanish nursing
homes survived Covid 19 with the use of antihistamines and antibiotics. This then
coincided with the TGA sending an email in approx August 2020 stating the Use of
Ivermectin for Covid19 and dosages suggested. This was retracted about a month
later and another email appeared stating Ivermectin was not to be used for Covid19.
It was only in March? 2022 that I saw ATAGI's reasoning., that they didn't want
Ivermectin to be issued as it might impact on the vaccines rollout - A DELIBERATE
WITHHOLDING OF LIFE SAVING MEDICATION - if used successfully would have
made null and void emergency use authorisation vaccinations - which is a legal
argument!!

On 18/5/21 I was personally sent an invite to get a Covid 19 vaccine from^^^H
                                                 I found out that foetal cell lines
had been used in the vaccines and I knew that I would not take it.



                                                                              I watched
what              had to say. This was approx June 2021. He was treating his 4000
+ive covid19 patient and none of his patients were dying from simple, basic
treatments including the use of antihistamines, steroidal puffers and oral steroids at a
later stage if necessary and blood thinning aspirin., and antibiotics if deemed
necessary. I was astounded., how was that possible., then also remembering the
previous 2 studies which I had read in 2020 - but the government and the media was
telling me that granny and every man and his dog was going to die from Covid.
Instinctively I knew that our government, and health industry was lying.
               I read it in approx August 2021 and at that point begged^!
^^^^■tonotparticipate in covid19 gene therapy technology "vaccination"
program. So at that point the entire world knew the Pfizer shot was not safe as it
produced spike (which is cytotoxic) and the spike went systemically.. I remembered
reading the list of organs in the body where the spike went post shots and the
amounts and I nearly wept. OBVIOUSLY OUR OWN TGA and governmental bodies
were aware of this and kept silent and LIED saying “safe and effective”. What does
“safe and effective” mean - safe for the giver of the vaccine/ safe for vaccine
manufacturers / what does effective mean? Manipulation of the English language at
it’s best. Afte^hi^^a^^im^f researching late into the night, night after night,
reading                                ONA lipid nanoparticles and others, September
2021 watching UK funeral Director Alarming Rise in Deaths, VAERS troubling data
coming out, Israel's troubling data showing something not disimilar to Antibody
Dependent Enhancement, an INEFFECTIVE vaccine and rising rates of infection,
then the Vietnamese health worker study showing rising rates of infection amongst
the vaccinated, the concern about potential DNA in the shots, Prion disease
potential, discovering the relationships between our regulatory authorities and US
regulatory authorities, the relationships with people in power IN AUSTRALIA and
being for example on^^^^advisory board, and finally the whole idea of
CORPORATE CAPTURE, not to mention the concept of Gain of Function which now
I even question our own institutions in the making of Gain of Function.




properties - talking about graphene and pegylated lipid nanoparticles - about it being
a bioweapon. I followed             patent numbers and emailed
the patent descriptions asking directly if there was graphene or graphene oxide in
the shots as I felt I had a duty of care in informing patients if I was to be a Patient
Advocate in the correct sense of the term. It was sickening and confronting.
^^^^Jiever replie^o my email. Since then the patent numbers have been
removed from ^^^^H/vebsite. I’m a nobody from nowhere and even I could get
this far. Quite obviously our leaders were aware of this and should be charged with
fraud.




Approx August 2021 a patient told me that 3 out of his 8 mates were magnetised
post their vaccinations.. I felt sick in the stomach remembering what I had read about
graphene etc. Then we had a patient attend the practice in                    who
couldn't move her arm post 2nd gene therapy technology (I can't remember if it was
Moderna or Pfizer., not given at our Practice). This went on for many weeks and it
was very disabling for her in her activities of daily living - that's insane - from a
vaccine? She wanted to see if she was magnetised so I put a spoon above her
vaccination site and dragged it down her Deltoid muscle on her upper arm and she
said "Oh.. I can feel that grab". I moved my hand away and there it was., the spoon
was magnetised to her arm - I was very upset, she was very upset,
                                                                                    he didn't
know what to make of it and decided it must of been caused from Iron stores which
is ridiculous. I thought Graphene which is highly electromagnetic.

What was the most horrific thing in all this covid charade were the side effects I
started to observe, people getting ill post their shots, people with heart problems
going into heart failure, someone with heart failure going into decompensated heart
failure post the jab, gut issues post jab (spike protein affecting H2 receptors of the
gut), cardiac chest pain which were all sent directly                                 for
investigation and the request to hav^^| report it to our Adverse events reporting
system, stroke like symptoms, bizarre nose bleeds, blood clot etc. Then in approx
Oct/Nov I personally got                           which continued until termination (to
this day I don't know if it was because of stress or whether shedding post vaccine is
a genuine thing?). Interestingly enough on a personal level, I had




The Direction from the Old government vaccine mandate was the icing on the cake
(Direction 1,2,3 and 4).
I had registered interest on 28/11/21 for Phase 4 Covax-19 Clinical trial. On
14/12/21 I email                                          asking for Covax clinical trial
exemption as a person had to be vaccine niave to participate - the exemption wasn't
granted.
on 17/12/21 I put in a compaint to                                        again no
satisfaction. I petitioned with several epetitions including E-petition to Hon Yvette
D'Ath MP on "evidence required from Old Govt about covid19 injections to minimise
the cases and severity of the disease".                                          _______
Icontacted via email:                                   to Yvette D'Ath MP
            do not want to voluntarily have a covid 19 vaccine.. I require full assurance
& validity from you that the current Covid19 vacc will not cause injury, disability,
adverse reactions or death., will you be made liable for any injury" etc etc and asked
for an urgent reply withing 14 days., it was merely a stock standard email response
that I got.

In November 2021 I also got a position as a support worker with NDIS helping a lady
                 That position was also vaccine mandated under the Qld Govt Health
Direction and I couldn't attend that workplace from 15 December 2021. I was meant
Covid19 hit our town with Qld opening up in December 2021. Initially all of our
patients who fell ill with Covid19 were all vaccinated - All of the vaccinated patrons at
the local pub contracted covid19 at the New Years Eve party, also all our local
meatworkers contracted Covid19. Not one unvaccinated covid19 patient got
seriously ill from covid19 from 90 year old patients down. One woman took
Ivermectin and got relief from inflammation at the 7 hour mark (it not only is antiviral
but antibacterial and also anti-inflammatory).

I then had to undergo full PPE in the middle of Summer, drive 40 minute round trip
prior to each shift to have PCR swabs attended which should have been at Premier
Anastaiin Palecek's (not sure of spelling) expense, and being treated by a       in a
community which was convinced that the media (well funded by govt in giving airing
time to covid 19 and espousing gene therapy technology) was right. Meanwhile■
                                        jumping up and down on u-tube as he had
now hit his 6000+ case seeing the original Wuhan strain and Delta strain and still no
loss of deaths amongst his patients. I emailed DDHHS on 11/3/22 asking about
critical workforce shortage and how to contact the Chief Medical Officer personally
for an extension but those contacts are not made available for people like me.

We finally got a replacement person to fully take over my position in March 2022. I
turned up to work at the practice as/usual on the day after the FINAL cut-off day on
                   and was handed my letter of termination and I had to leave as/Qld
Govt Health Direction Covid-19 Mandate.

Since that time I have read the TGA biodistribution report which was withheld from
the Australian public since January 2021 and only exposed in 2023 due to a FOI.
The Japanese Ministry of Health Biodistribution^^Hvacc data was correct after all.

Now it would          from the world leading
                                        that there is DNA plasmids in the Moderna
and Pfizer shots in the order of magnitude higher than the acceptable limit specified
by the European Medicines Agency. We have all been deceived. I have^^^^^^



I have Post Traumatic Stress Disorder from this period of time knowing full well that
our governmental members and industry bodies are absolutely corrupt to the core
and that Corporate Capture is rife in Australia.

Pauline Draper
Registered Nurse
