There is every need for an legitimate inquiry into the disgraceful way the Australian Government has treated its
people during the Covid 19 debacle. I'm hoping for an outcome are clear and transparent answers.


My primarily issues of concern are:
Between Nov 20 and August 21, our Commonwealth Government bought (as per the Australian Govt website) in
excess of 146.5 million doses of Pfizer, a drug still in testing stages. For something that, presuming it worked, would
only require 2 doses. In addition, they purchased 28million doses Moderna, and finally 53.8million doses of
Astrazenica. A total of 228,300,000+ doses was purchased, for a country with a population of 25.6million.


Q: why did the Commonwealth Government purchase so many (8.9 doses per person)?


Initial testing results, showed extremely concerning results, (as was published by Pfizer), with sudden deaths, and
"vaccine" injuries, some within hours of receiving the initial dose. Pfizer fought hard to keep this information
confidential, and the Government was aware there was no recourse if the drug was faulty/didn't work.
Australian laws prior to this, required long and stringent testing, before any drug was allowed to be sold in Australia,
let alone being forced directly into our blood stream, under Government legislation.


Q: why was this experimental drug allowed to be rolled out en-masse, when such concerning initial testing was
already known?


Q. If it" wasn't known", again, why was it allowed to be given to people? What about your duty of care to your
people? What about due diligence prior to signing off on the rollout?


Q. Who are the people who signed off on this deadly decision? Name and shame. Will they be apologising to the
families who buried loved ones?


Australia had minimal cases. The government was incredibly slow to shut international borders. The disease could
have easily been kept at bay on our island. Our Prime Minister was very quick to state that he did not have power to
deal with intrastate border travel, however surely he had the power to stop overseas travel, immediately it was
declared a pandemic.


Q: Can the Prime Minister of the time be held accountable for the size of the outbreak in Australia, as he did not
act swiftly enough?


Key Health Measures
COVID 19 VACCINATIONS TRIALS
I WAS an aged care worker. As a health care worker, under Commonwealth Government policy, I was FORCED into
taking an experimental drug, to remain employed. Your government remains steadfast that I was given a choice.
My choice was
1] Take the drug to remain able to put food on the table for my family, and keep a roof over our heads.
2] Don't take the drug, lose your job, and lose your home.
THIS WAS NOTACHOICE.
During World War 2, my Dutch Grandparents lived in the town initially captured by the Germans. They were also
given a choice:
1] Work for the Germans or
2] Get interned in a concentration camp.
My Oma chose to work for the Germans, to keep her children alive. My Opa got put in a concentration camp. He
made it out alive, weighing 39kg. He never recovered mentally.
BHHHnHHHHHHn Or do I really need to point out that during the pandemic, our Australian Government
behaved |


Ironically, I took the vaccine (for which I have suffered adverse effects), and still ended up losing my job, due to a
medical reason of not being able to wear a mask.


Another great concern, were the coercion techniques that were employed, to get people to comply with the
demand to get jabbed.
I have met families whose children were singled out by class teachers, as being "the only one who hasn't had it yet"
and that were made to feel unsafe, dirty, ostracised and ridiculed, within Government schools.
I have met people who were given additional Government payments.
People that were offered a free sausage sizzle.
I was refused entry into a restaurant, as I did not have a certificate (show me your papers...again, so many
similarities with                 |).
The Australian Government, through its demands, were condoning and committing bullying, on a grand scale.

“Workplace bullying is verbal, physical, social or psychological abuse by your employer (or manager),
another person or group of people at work. Excluding you or stopping you from working with people or
taking part in activities that relates to your work. Playing mind games, ganging up on you, or other types of
psychological harassment. Intimidation (making you feel less important and undervalued)”


PUBLIC HEALTH MESSAGING
The public want answers to the questions about the deceptive reporting of case numbers, Covid related deaths, and
other government condoned and directed misinformation that was barraged to us night and day.


    1.         Can you provide evidence that the numbers were not deceptive,
    2.     Will you now provide updated statistics, that specify if the person died "of Covid", or "with covid", as
           many deaths (according to the ABS) had multiple comorbidities, that were more likely to have been the
           main reason they died.
    3.         Was this part of an agenda to create mass hysteria, and coerce people into submitting to the vaccine?


QUARANTINE FACILITIES
    1.         Why were multiple detention centres built around the country?
    2.         What was the cost of these centres?
    3.         What is the long term plan for these now?


MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORTS
Archaic lockdown laws are responsible for a mental health crisis across Australia. The rest of the world had scaled
down their lockdowns, and Australian Government continued to ramp ours up. The cost of this for many families
has been devastating. My own family was touched, as m> Byear old
         |. My daughter, (resided in^^^^^| during the pandemic entirety), has developed!
Prior to that time, she                                                     ^ear old. As parents living in^^^J      we
have vicariously shared her trauma, as day by day, not seeing her, and trying to console her via phone calls!
                    also took its toll. A ■year old friend, has committed suicide recently, largely as a result of almost 2
years of lockdowns in Melbourne. My many friends living in Melbourne, all report feelings/diagnosis of PTSD,
depression or anxiety. Many have lost businesses. Some have lost their homes.
The ABS has reported approximately a 9% increase in suicides in Victoria, but that it has also increased nationwide
similarly, post pandemic.


    1.      What compensation will the Government be providing to individuals?
    2.      What is the Government doing to deal with the mental health crisis?


Recognition of those people who died of ADVERSE ERECTS or suffered Vaccine injuries
The Government appears determined TO IGNORE the concept of adverse effects, and vaccine injuries.


We demand to see on public record, a list of the names of all those who died, as a result of subjecting themselves to
this experimental trial. (Whether willingly, or because of the incessant pressure from Government
agencies/media/Health departments/travel restrictions, etc)
If it was acceptable to report someone as a Covid statistic, (because they died in a car crash, but did have Covid at
the time), surely we can acknowledge that if someone died/experienced a major health event within days of the
vaccine, there is a similar correlation?


I am someone who has suffered adverse effects. Within days of the 2nd dose, I was experiencing shortness of breath,
overwhelming fatigue, and general malaise. My general health has deteriorated since then. I've gone from
someone who would visit the doctor once or twice a year, to once a month. Very recently, I was diagnosed with an
autoimmune disease. Apparently there has been a large increase in autoimmune diagnosis, and one earlier theory
was that having Covid was the cause. I have never had Covid. (I have had dozens of tests, whilst I was still employed)
. According to recent studies from the National Institute of Health, "Covid 19 Vaccination may cause onset of
autoimmune disease".


This is a diary entry I wrote on 18/12/21, the day I was experimented on, the day I felt^^^by the Australian
Government:

It's been a never-ending assault on all my senses -being told that “you know what's good for me”, and that “this is how
it must be”. And if I don’t agree, well - “see what my life will be like then”, you say.

You've already kept me away from my family for months, and if I don’t let you have your way with me, it might be
forever. I will be trapped here, only allowed to venture so far.

Months of being your prisoner, have broken my will. I'm not strong enough to fight you off anymore.

So now I sit, watching you approach. The anxiety raises - a drop of sweat forms on my brow. The pit in my stomach
gets bigger and bigger. I don't want to do this, I scream, silently, because I'm afraid. I watch you coming closer, your
tip glistening with a tiny drop of fluid. And then yot                 filling me with your poison. A haze of jumbled
words, no pleasantries- you don't care how I feel. You don't care that I’ve been violated. You don't care that I have
been coerced into agreeing to this invasion on my body.

I'm fighting back tears. Why did you do this to me? I thought we lived somewhere safe, where this sort of abuse
couldn’t happen. Not by people you trusted.

...’’You can go now “, you say. Just like that. You've                         and now that you're done, I'm nothing to
you. Except another name to add to your list of victims.

I stagger to my car. I feel shame, for not fighting you off. I feel angry, that you could do this to me. I feel stupid - so
many others think I’m crazy to let a little “prick” upset me so much. I feel scared- what will happen now? How long
befcagain, seeing as I gave in so easy this time? What will the repercussions be..in a few
months..a few years? I feel alone...nobody else really understands how important this is to me. I feel sad.
And the worst crime of all - this VIOLATION is all sanctioned by our Government. A government that embarked on a
mission of psychological warfare, with a barrage of advertising, in every form possible: print, social media, radio,
billboards, to make us conform to their agenda. They have threatened us financially and emotionally. They have
kept us prisoners in our own homes. They have bullied us, and discriminated against us, (and whilst they say “we are
not doing this- businesses are choosing to do this- they are allowing it to happen.) They are making it happen.
