Submission to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry

Lindsay Spencer-Matthews
Registered Psychologist


Please note that, whilst I am contributing this submission as an individual, I am primarily speaking as
a Registered Psychologist. I endured an AHPRA investigation in 2022 due to two anonymised
complaints over five informational videos I permitted to be made public. I was ultimately given a
"warning" with no explanation regarding what I was being "warned" about. To this day, in spite of a
formal request to AHPRA, I am unaware regarding what I should, or should not, do in the future in
terms of the "warning".

Broader health and social supports - as a psychologist I have observed many of my
clients, family, and friends, experience psychological and social harms directly
related to the manner in which the “pandemic” was managed. These ranged from
concerns over the lack of evidence shown to support the fear messages relentlessly
broadcast through government press conferences, to alarmist and unscientific
exaggeration of risk through citing raw numbers rather than per “x” number of
people, and to censuring and suppression of voices attempting to moderate the
alarm, confusion, and division generated by the one-sided, hyperbolic messaging
which typified the Covid-a9 response. People felt that they were being patronised,
threatened, and duped. Apart from “underground” support groups, there was a
complete absence of health and social support for these people. The message was
“agree with us and you’ll be OK, disagree and we’ll attack you”.

Community supports - the messages throughout most of the Covid-19 response was
to “isolate yourself for the safety of all, be fearful of personal contact”. This sacrificed
an uncountable number of people, life events, and social support opportunities.
Community supports should be to support all facets of our community, not jut those
who agree with the government. It was clear to anyone willing to look, that Covid-19
was not any kind of “black plague”. The IFR cited by the Imperial College in February
2020 is still being cited by doctors today (2023) when it is undeniably evidenced that
^^^^^^estimate overestimated by at least one, maybe close to two, orders of
magnitude. Such incompetence and hyperbole cannot be allowed to undermine the
fabric of our society again.

Financial support for individuals - whilst the Federal Government did help out a
fraction of the population, small business owners, casual employees, and those who
chose bodily autonomy over enforced medical interventions (yes, I am talking about
the “vaccines”) suffered extraordinary losses, myself included. My practice was
forced to offer only telehealth, my intake of new clients fell away precipitously, and
my income has not recovered. Given the restrictions attached to the “handouts”, I
received nothing.

Governance, including roles and responsibilities - I was one of over 10,000
Queenslanders who, in a respectfully worded petition, asked the Health Minister,
^^^^^^^for the scientific evidence she, or her advisors, had relied upon to
justify the mask mandates. Her response was boilerplate and dismissive, ultimately
sayin^h^iH^videly accepted that masks.          That was the sort of “science” that
saw|^^^^^Hjailed,                        struck off. Governments and their advisors
MUST be held accountable to publicly present the “science” that they have relied
upon to execute their draconian measures.

International polices to support Australians at home and abroad - the WHO created
a “Pandemic Response” in 2019 which was completely at odds with what they
recommended in 202 and beyond. Again, no science to support the changed
opinions. Such capricious edicts from an unelected body must never be held as
“gospel” again. A reckoning must be sought.

Key health response measures - really? Lockdowns, masks, social distancing, inject
your way out of a “pandemic”? None of these things have any plausible scientific
support. If we do not do an international audit comparing how the countries fared
who did NOT do these things, compared to those who did, and (God forbid) compare
the health outcomes of the injected to the uninjected. Without such “hindsight”
review, we are doomed to repeat the same mistakes.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
- if a health threat has as significant an age impact profile as Covid-19 did from the
beginning, please leave the healthy and the children alone! Perhaps read the Great
Barrington Declaration, history has shown it to be far more applicable than the
nonsense inflicted on we Australians.

Support for industry and businesses. It seems that the “big end of town” did OK, btu
the little guys were crushed. Please don’t let this happen again!

Other... if we don’t get a Royal Commission with broad investigative powers and an
open purview, then we must assume that there is a cover up in progress.
