                                    COVID -19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

                                             SUBMISSION

Introduction

My name is Anne Heath Mennell and I live on the shores of                   in^^^^J My submission
is written from the perspective of a private citizen. I have no medical or science expertise so my
submission is focused on my personal experience of that time, in the hope that my views will assist
in improving our response to future pandemics or similar emergencies.

Comments

Early stages

In early 2020 I was 71 years old with a pre-existing condition which reduced                      This
put me in two high risk categories. I will never forget the fear as the virus spread around the world,
people were dying in their thousands with hospitals overwhelmed. Drone vision of graves being dug
in New York City is still vivid.

When the virus reached Australia my fear intensified, not helped by several serious, early mistakes,
made as authorities scrambled to deal with the unprecedented situation. I am retired so I was able
to stay at home as much as possible and avoid crowded places while public health departments tried
to source face-masks, hand sanitizers, PRE for health workers and put in place other preventative
measures. It became apparent that Australia did not make many of these vital items, nor did we
have emergency stockpiles so there were severe shortages. Given the time since the last pandemic,
this is understandable to a point, but it did not help to stem the fears of vulnerable communities.

It is obvious that we need to review supply chains of vital products, invest in our own manufacturing
capacity, wherever possible, and maintain emergency stocks to help deal with future disasters.

Quarantine

In the early stages, when numbers of cases and deaths were rising rapidly, the use of isolation and
quarantine to try to slow the spread was really important for public confidence. Unfortunately,
mistakes were made here too as authorities had to make and implement difficult decisions with
inadequate information, resources, experience and facilities.

In the future, we need to have established protocols in place which enable citizens overseas to be
repatriated quickly and for people to be quarantined where necessary. The state government should
be commended for ensuring that homeless people were provided with safe, albeit temporary,
accommodation. By allowing indigenous leaders to manage their communities in their own ways,
governments helped to protect vulnerable, remote communities.

Future quarantine plans should include frontline health-care workers who may not wish to put their
families at risk. At least Victoria now has a quarantine facility, which should be maintained so that it
can be re-opened quickly, if needed, either for quarantine or during other disasters.
Lockdowns and Border Closures

Lockdowns became very divisive in Victoria and I should presage my remarks by clarifying that I live
in a rural area, own my own home, don't have school-age children and was not separated from close
family. Our experience of lockdowns was not as severe as for those in metro Melbourne.

Nevertheless, it is difficult to see what the government could have done differently to try to reduce
the spread of the virus at a time when there were no treatments for those who contracted it, no
vaccines to reduce the chances of someone becoming positive and deaths were increasing rapidly.

Australia's federal structure made border closures unprecedented and politically divisive. There
were tragic stories of people separated from dying loved ones and huge difficulties for border
communities such as Albury-Wodonga. Australia's size means long supply chains across state
borders. There was much confusion and anxiety, especially when borders were closed with almost
no warning. Again, mistakes were made but it is hard to see what else governments could have
done, at a time when stopping or slowing the spread of the virus was the priority.

Any loss of civil liberties was temporary and necessary to ensure a whole-of-community response to
a devastating, life and death situation. If such a situation was to recur, we need to have clear
strategies and frameworks in place so that public health officials, politicians, essential industries,
transport, emergency organisations etc. all know what needs to be done, who will do it and how it
will be done.

Communication and Coordination

In extraordinary times, reliable information is vital. Victoria's premier gave press conferences every
day, giving updates and explanations. He has been strongly criticised by some people for his
handling of the pandemic. Certainly, mistakes were made and issues mishandled but I am not sure
that anyone else could have done anything different or better.

Victoria was criticised for doing things differently from other states. Given the many differences
between the states this seems sensible but the establishment of the National Cabinet was a very
good move. Arguments between Commonwealth and state governments and between state and
territory governments could be discussed and decisions made and coordinated for the good of the
whole country, with politics minimised.

An apolitical National Cabinet should be established at an early stage of any future situation to
minimise competition and political posturing and to maximise cooperation and coordination for the
national good.

Vaccinations

Once vaccines became available, supply couldn't keep up with demand and Australia had to make
decisions which, in hindsight, might not have been the best ones. Obtaining and then distributing
vaccines could have been handled better and were beset by misinformation and disinformation
campaigns. I can't really offer any suggestions on how this matter could be better handled in the
future, other than having the capacity to develop and produce vaccines ourselves and having clear
priorities in terms of distribution to vulnerable groups such as people in aged care. Addressing
hostile commentary should be a specific review area for the Inquiry.

Non-health responses

I commend governments for providing financial assistance to employees and organisations during
lockdowns. However, the discovery that some companies used government funds to increase profits
and were unwilling to return un-needed funds was shocking. The law should be amended to ensure
this never happens again.

The exclusion of universities from financial support schemes and the treatment of overseas students
was ideological discrimination by the then federal Government which should never be repeated.

Conclusion

Many mistakes were made and, undoubtedly, some things could have been handled better. I believe
that almost everyone was trying to do their best in unprecedented circumstances, working in the
dark in a very high-stakes situation.

If I had caught Covid in 2020, I may not have survived. When I did test positive, it was with a less
virulent strain, I was fully vaccinated and had access to anti-virals. I experienced only a mild
infection, with no ill effects. It could have been very different. The actions taken in 2020 and 2021
bought us time to develop vaccines and save lives. I am very grateful.

Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to the work of the Inquiry. I hope that its
recommendations will ensure that we are better prepared for the next challenge.

Anne Heath Mennell




Tek^^^^M
