I am an NHMRC Leadership Fellow and Professor of Virology at the University of Sydney. I am
a global expert in the evolution of viruses and the first person to release the genome sequence of
SARS-CoV-2, enabling the rapid design of vaccines. In 2021 I received the Prime Minister’s
prize for science. I am giving these comments in a personal capacity.


I wish to comment on some scientific aspects of the Australian government’s response to
COVID-19.


Overall, the Australian government’s response to COVID was excellent and should be praised.
The government listed to the science, generally provided a clear message, and acted to protect
the public health. Clear evidence for this is that, for virtually every available metric, Australia
performed better than the majority of developed nations during the pandemic.


However, there is room for improvement in some areas. I make three specific recommendations:
1. A broader set of pandemic plans.
2. Wider expert advisory groups, with a broader skill base.
3. Improved vaccine procurement, vaccination policy and vaccination advice.


1. Pandemic Plans
As in most developed nations, the pandemic plan in place in Australia was based on influenza.
Hence, all the epidemiological models and strategies for disease control assumed that a pandemic
virus would have characteristics like that of influenza. Although there are similarities, SARS-
CoV-2 is not influenza. In particular, because of its high infectivity, pandemic plans for
influenza assume that the virus can only be suppressed, not eliminated. However, this was not
the case for early variants of SARS-CoV-2 that had relatively low infectivity relative to later
variants. With sufficient control measures it was possible to fully eliminate SARS-CoV-2
transmission, as demonstrated by New Zealand and some Australian jurisdictions for extended
periods (until the emergence of Omicron). Hence, the epidemiological models utilized for SARS-
CoV-2 were not necessarily the most appropriate and may have incorrectly shaped control
policies in some instances. Moving forward, it will be important to have pandemic plans in place
for pathogens with a broader range of epidemiological and biological properties.


                                                   1
2. Expert Advisory Groups
One of the major wins for Australia was that the scientific advice provided to the government
was generally good, timely, and acted upon. This sits in stark contrast to countries like the UK
and the USA.


While the science-government interface generally worked well in Australia, mistakes were made.
Of most note, the government seemed to only rely on the advice provided by a particular set of
clinicians and epidemiologists, largely ignoring the work of other groups with other skill sets.
This was most stark with respect to the delay in accepting that SARS-CoV-2 was subject to
airborne transmission. As 2020 wore on, a large body of data accumulated, particularly from
ventilation and air flow studies, that the virus was airborne. Yet these crucial data were
minimised by the expert groups advising the government, who focused on clinical and
epidemiological data which better fit their expertise and hence frame of reference. The WHO fell
into exactly the same trap. Randomised control trials were considered the evidential “gold
standard”. While this is true for most therapeutic interventions, a broader set of data are of value
when investigating such issues as airborne transmission. The effective denial of airborne
transmission, in the face of mounting evidence for its occurrence, resulted in incorrect advice on
PPE, especially for health care workers, and hence a larger number of COVID infections. This
was undoubtedly a major misstep.


As a consequence, there should clearly be a broader range of skill groups providing advice to
government. These should include, for example, experts in virus transmission, ventilation
systems and PPE design. In particular, it is crucial that the Chief Scientist of Australia and the
Australian Academy of Science be given more prominent roles as they can draw on a wide range
of scientific expertise. They seemed to be effectively side-lined during the CO VID-10 pandemic,
yet should be a key part of any future pandemic plan.


3. Vaccines and Vaccination
Australia’s vaccination policy was generally a success. However, the vaccine roll-out was slow
and there was a delay in the purchase of sufficient mRNA vaccines (although this likely did not


                                                  2
have a major impact on pandemic control in the long term). Thankfully, Australia is now
investing in mRNA technology.


One aspect of the initial delay in vaccine procurement was an over-emphasis by some in
government on producing a “home grown” Australian vaccine, specifically that designed by
researchers at the University of Queensland. While it was correct that this vaccine project was
funded and supported, because of the untested nature of the technology and the complexity of the
problem it would have been advisable to have invested earlier in a broader set of vaccine
technologies developed in other localities. Indeed, it was clear from early clinical trials and data
from other localities that the mRNA vaccines were efficacious and should have been procured.
Again, a broader advisory group may have been able to provide better advice. In addition, in
both Australia and globally there was a marked lack of surge capacity for vaccine production.
Hopefully, the new investment in mRNA technology in Australia will be help address this issue.


The clarity and timing of vaccine advice provided by ATAGI should also be improved. Although
it is important that ATAGI provide guidance, this was often too late, confusing, and sometimes
seemingly of little scientific basis given the data available in other localities (e.g., which age
groups should be vaccinated using which vaccines and when). As a specific case in point, the
decision to offer XBB vaccines to the broader adult population (i.e., aside from the elderly and
immunocompromised) in Australia was made far too late. To achieve as wide an update as
possible, vaccine advice (and vaccine categories) should be far simpler. The skill base of ATAGI
may also need to be expanded.


Finally, for future pandemics, it should be mandated that any vaccines not used in Australia
should be automatically given to lower income countries.


Prof. Edward C. Holmes FAA FRS
NHMRC Investigator Fellow and Professor of Virology,
The University of Sydney




                                                   3
