My name is                   and two years ago I was vaccine injured.

I formally request a royal commission for the proper investigation into vaccine procurement and
mandates, mask mandates, silencing of doctors, misinformation that vaccines would prevent
transmission, vaccine injuries and media censorship among other things.

No vaccine that hasn't had the proper testing should be forced or mandated on anyone. People
shouldn't be forced to comply with an experimental vaccine that did not prevent transmission.
The vaccine caused me more harm than the virus did. I wasn't advised of the inadequate testing
and the side effects of this vaccine. I wish I knew then what I know now. I put my trust in the
system and it failed me.

My life changed after receiving the mandated covid vaccinations. My health has declined and I
live in chronic pain after being vaccine injured receiving two covid vaccinations over two years
ago. I have been dismissed by doctors, been told that it's in my head and told by a doctor 'I don't
know what you want me to do.' Whenever I mentioned the vaccine, doctors would quickly
dismiss it or say they couldn't talk about it. Some referred me to the practice manager.

I've been told that there's physically nothing wrong, so the specialists have been at a loss as to
how to treat me. I've tried different medications, treatments and recently procedures which has
cost me thousands of dollars. It has reduced my quality of life as it has for so many others.
Countless others have lost their lives.

A doctor at the emergency department of the hospital told me that they were aware of the
covid vaccine injuries but there was nothing they could do to help me and that her own mother
received debilitating injuries similar to my own and that this will all come out in 5 years. It has
already been too late for many. It just goes to show the system is flawed and broken. We need
to prevent this from ever happening again.

Vaccines and masks shouldn't be mandated, people should be given the choice. People
shouldn't fear losing their jobs and livelihoods if they don't comply.

Vaccines should go through the proper testing and all known side effects should be made
available to the public. We should be given all the information before making an informed
choice whether to be vaccinated. It is much like the flu, and we have the choice as to whether to
get the flu shot.

The media should be held accountable for spreading misinformation and fear.

Social media and online shouldn't be censored. We live in a country where we have freedom of
speech. If we lose our freedom, we lose our way of life.

I strongly urge you to authorise for a Royal Commission and a proper investigation into the
handling of COVID-19.
