Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission


Hello!

I am a professional

My submission relates primarily to the Key health response measures in the Terms of Reference.

This year, as our lives have returned to a semblance of their pre-2020 days I am left with an employer that is
making financial cuts that have reduced my employment and an economy with high inflation that makes
everyday living more expensive. Also, in the last two years (2022 and



When I discovered that I was not alone in my bereavement I looked up excess mortality on the ABS website and
was shocked to realise that since January last year there have been significantly more excess deaths than
numbers of Australians who died in the second world war! Why is this not being discussed?

Whatever the honourable intentions behind the Australian Government's health response measures to
COVID-19 the undisputed result was ubiquitous fear:
fear of an invisible virus,
fear of other people should they accidentally pass on the virus (maintain one-point-five), and
fear of people who questioned the fear.

I weighed up all this fear and elected not to get any of the COVID-19 vaccines...at a price!

The price I paid for declining the vaccine

I was denied travel,
I lost several months of
I was excluded from performance venues that had been like homes for me since my childhood, such as the
                          other major performance venues in^^^^M
And until April 2022 I had no idea whether these restrictions on my life would increase or be lifted. Another
fear!

'Safe and effective' promise

Is it honest and ethical to encourage everyone to take a relatively new type of vaccine (viral vector -
AstraZeneca / mRNA - Pfizer/Moderna) which is still in its Phase 3 trial stage?

Is it honest and ethical to say that they are safe and effective when no-one knows the medium or longterm
effects?

Is it honest and ethical to ask people to take something the exact contents of which are secretly protected by
patent laws?

and

Is it honest and ethical to give immunity to the manufacturers of these products should something go wrong?

Finally, I hope this enquiry does not ignore the impact that the fear and promises have made on Australians.


My warmest regards,
