Australia Covid 19 Response Submission

The vaccine mandates were the most awful and disgraceful part of the pandemic response.

It was both advisable and right to make vaccines available for those that voluntarily wanted
them, but to MANDATE experimental vaccines, especially for young healthy people was
horribly wrong. I have heard health officials since say they were never mandated, which is
just wrong because people were coerced with threats of removing their livelihood, cutting
them off from sick kids, cutting them off from society, that is effectively mandated.

They were definitely experimental because it was a new technology, the trials were rushed
and didn't cover an adequate or usual span of time for new product approvals. Many side
effects weren't known about until the actual rollout to the public which proves it was
experimental.

I personally know 6 people who sustained myocarditis and/or pericarditis, one of which
resulted in early stage heart failure. She is still waiting on compensation from the
government even though it's a very clear cut case, the compensation scheme has been
disgraceful especially for a mandated product.

Even by the TGA's own figures, Myocarditis alone (there were many other side effects
including pericarditis) was reported in 1 in 25 000 people receiving Moderna, however this
was orders of magnitude higher and under 1 in 5000 for young men, which is simply
unacceptable to mandate.

Quite simply put, people can choose to receive an experimental vaccine in a pandemic to
protect themselves, if it's effective then they will be adequately protected from anyone they
fear may be unvaccinated and have the virus. For those that can't be vaccinated for health
reasons, they can wear P2 masks and be more careful about what settings they attend, it's
never been the case that we can forcibly medicate OTHER people to protect those with
underlying health conditions, especially when those medications can knowingly cause
serious heart issues amongst other side effects.

Furthermore, the vaccine was shown to only provide protection from transmission for a very
limited period (8-12 weeks) and the boosters were never adequately tested in large
randomised controlled trials, and in fact appeared to increase the risk of side effects with
each one. Given the failure to prevent transmission, those who weren't at risk from covid,
especially young people and kids should never have been forced to take vaccines. Mark
Mcgowan even forced this on pregnant people to keep their jobs. My pregnant wife was
advised by her obstetrician not to take it, but Mark Mcgowan overruled this and tried to
force her to take it to keep her job, even though the much better and more effective idea
would have been P2 masks in public and working from home (which wouldn't have put the
baby at risk).

Both the Nuremberg code and Australian Healthcare ethics manual said patients CANNOT
be coerced into taking medical interventions, this was clearly done during the pandemic and
should have been illegal, especially for experimental medication.
