To Robyn Kruk AO, Professor Catherine Bennett & Doctor Angela Jackson,

My name is Krzysztof Kaszusbki, of^^^Mvictoria.
I work in the auto industry as a Warranty Manager, my main tasks being assessment of complaints or failures to
determine what the cause is and whether it is attributable to manufacturing defect, external influence or other. I have
many years of experience and my logical, evidence based and process driven approach has earned me a reputation for
consistent performance with integrity and an ability to manage the relevant stake holders' expectations while
adhering to policy and legal requirements.
It is the same set of qualities and methodology that I applied to assessing the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent
responses, which lead me to have serious questions about the apparent lack of transparency and ethics displayed by
state and federal governments/agencies, both in Australia and overseas.

I find the Government's refusal to investigate the causes of the highest excess deaths in Australia since WWII or to
hold a Royal Commission into the pandemic response utterly disgraceful.
Given we've had RC's for lesser issues such as the Home Insulation Program, I would've thought something that
affected the entire nation so terribly for so long would be grounds enough to investigate properly with the powers
only a RC has. I can't help but feel the Labor Federal govt is just protecting state Labor premiers/govts.
I've attempted to bring these topics up and have been told that I'm "presenting too much information" by the office
of the Assistant Health Minister Kearny (my local member). I've also attempted to communicate with past & present
PM's and Relevant ministers & senators.

The 3 page submission limit seems somewhat inadequate to cover the ground in any meaningful depth or breadth.
More info, sources, links, etc and past correspondence with govt members in attached files.

LOCKDOWNS: These drastic measures may've seemed appropriate at the very early stages of the pandemic, when the
exact nature of the virus/effects were unknown. Most people would've accepted these as necessary for a short
period, at least until a better understanding was gained, but the long term damage caused across so many facets of
society and the economy was warned about, ignored and eventually proven correct.

The recently published cancer rates increase has been partially attributed to the effects of the lockdowns on people
failing to have timely diagnoses or treatments. There's also some evidence that MRNA vaccines may be contributing
to this as well.

One particular anecdote fro

                                   don't have data on how many were successful, but for a police officer to
mention that means something went horribly wrong.

Some customers who'd fled from authoritarian regimes and migrated to Australia and who'd experienced living under
martial law and severe oppression had said they'd had more freedoms in their home countries than under lockdowns.
Even prisoners have more than Ihr allowed out of their cells.
Other customers had lost their business due to the lockdowns, with severe personal financial losses and associated
emotional/health impacts on their families.

Objectors to the lockdowns were demonised by the Victorian Premier to the day, the (dis)Honourable Daniel
Andrews, govt officials, media and members of the public as some sort of crazy far right extremists, when all they
were doing was questioning the lockdowns for a virus which by those later stages was known to be a disease that
most working age people and younger were highly unlikely to die from.

We sacrificed our children's childhoods and education to protect the old, something that has never been the norm in
any civilised modern society.
We already had a national pandemic preparedness protocol in place, yet we threw that in the bin.
These lockdowns should never again be allowed to be utilised in this manner.



VACCINES: These Covid-19 vaccines were billed as "safe and effective" and were going to stop people being infected
with or passing on the virus. Our own PM wrote to me saying "being vaccinated protects you, your family and your
community" How far from the truth was that message? Not only are they now proven to be unsafe with the current
govt recommendations being restricted to select cohorts, but anyone who questioned the official narrative on this
was once again labelled as a crazy covidiot, actively dehumanised by the Premier and govt officials, and the
government and technology firms colluding to actively shut down debate or any dissenting voices.

This has been proven by the Twitter files release where USA govt agencies worked had in hand with social media
companies to shut down and shadow ban anyone opposing the standard Safe & Effective narrative.
Our own Federal Senate hearing very recently also proved that Australian government bureaucrats were handing lists
of accounts to social media companies to be investigated for "contravening community guidelines"; ie, have them
shut down or sanctioned.

AHPRA played its hand as well, using its power to intimidate and threaten doctors with opposing or questioning views,
adding it's might to the pressure being applied to push the vaccines out.

Even                                                          publicly came out about the debilitating neurological
injuries^^^^^^^^^^B^uffered as a result of covidl9 vaccination. These type of injuries are still not recognised
by TGA as MRNA Vaccine related, look up the name^^^^^^^^o see what they did to a health
       | also criticised the health regulators for silencing and censoring doctors with any kind of opposing views or
questions about the safety of these vaccines.

I watched the live streams of the Royal Children's Hospital as they reassured parents that the kids can return to
school, how this disease is extremely mild in kids, how only a handful end up in hospital for some fluids and rest, even
smaller amount go to ICU and they all recover. But once the TGA approved vaccines for kids, the RCH's tuned suddenly
changed. Now it was 1 in 3000 kids were at risk of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome and parent should consider
vaccinating their kids. What changed? How did we go from "no problems, send your kids to schools" to suddenly
scaring people about MIS and encouraging to vaccinate?

A very recent study shows a 4th dose does not prevent death, and while it reduces infection in the 1st 3 months it
actually increases infection rates after 3 months: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.llll/eci.14136
A recent Senate hearing heard from Pfizer reps that they don't know or won't disclose how the MRNA vaccine causes
cardiac problems. What else does Pfizer not know or is not disclosing?

It's been also proven now that the spike protein from MRNA vaccines does not stay at the injection site but is
distributed throughout the system, travelling to various organs (take myocarditis for example) as well as travelling
across the brain barrier. It's no wonder people have suffered so many adverse events.
These vaccines are the most unsafe in history, yet still being used. For reference, the 2010 flu vaccine was pulled from
market for lesser non fatal adverse events, https://www.bmi.com/content/340/bmj.c2994
In my line of automotive work, any safety problem results in an instant recall notice with all rectification costs to be
borne by the manufacturer. Why are the MRNA vaccines treated differently and still on the market? Even after the
officially recognised MRNA attributed deaths, which I know are far smaller that the real numbers, based on the TGA's
performance and lack of transparency.

The TGA has admitted it has no evidence to support genotoxicity safety of the vaccines and the Office of the
GeneTechnology Regulator says it's not responsible for any genetic safety pertaining to MRNA vaccines as they were
not manufactured in Australia, as evidenced by recent Seante Hearings
We have nobody willing to testify that these MRNA vaccines do not pose a genotoxicity risk.

Furthermore, the TGA has actively failed to disclose MRNA vaccine death reports as attributed to the vaccines and
also failed to follow up with deceased's family to ascertain the circumstances around a confirned MRNA vaccine
caused death.
See FOI request "FOI 37U" in my attached Outlook email file "Website Contact Form - request for constituent
meeting denied" for more details about this.
                    ^FOI request FOI 3727 stating:
...causality assessment documents relating to the TGA's investigation of reported deaths after Covid vaccination, which
were obtained under FOI request in a process that took six months ________________
Documents obtained under Freedom of Information (FOI) request by^^^^^^^^^^^reveal that the TGA appears
to have hidden numerous vaccine-induced deaths from the public view, including those of two children.

This shows that the body responsible for protecting Australians from unsafe medical products is either incompetent or
corrupted, or both.
The current Disinformation Bill being prepared to be tabled should be scrapped as this is the very mechanism used to
perpetuate the myth about Safe & Effective vaccines and brainwash the public into feeling like everyone in the
scientific and medical community was in support. The very recent discovery that the minister of the day would be able
to refer anyone for anything they choose with the full force of Govt bureaucracy behind them, shows we can expect
more censorship for pure political gain. https://voutu.be/ohpQQUpClDo?si=GcDWQHVA-ie2S Zt

I personally experienced cardiac problems after my 2 doses of Pfizer, thankfully they passed eventually, but at the
time I couldn't see a cardiologist, they were all booked out solid. After my 1st dose I told the duty doctor at the
vaccine hub about my experiences and how I couldn't sleep at night due to chest pains, he told me "It was probably
just anxiety". I know anxiety and I know pain in my body.



Unfortunately, my vaccine experience was echoed by many                                                         men who
suddenly had trouble doing their work due to chest pains.

             ■ wasn't so lucky. He experienced adverse effects after his 1st dose. After his 2nd dose the effects were
far worse. He I




MASKS: Please provide any study that shows that surgical and N95 masks offer any meaningful protection. Asbestos is
larger than covidl9, yet I could not legally wear a surgical or N95 mask and work with asbestos. A study in the UK
showed that there was no significant reduction in covidl9 transmission between school that wore masks and those
that didn't. Covid: Evidence on face masks in schools 'inconclusive1 - BBC News

MANDATES: The vaccine mandates were an unethical and grotesque abuse of power.
People of working age who by that stage were known to have a very low risk of mortality or serious effects from
covidl9, were forced to choose between being able to work and provide for their families by having experimental
medical products injected, or to have that ability to support themselves taken away

This by definition is coercion and in contradiction to Nuremberg Code point 1: informed voluntary consent provision.

Inject and work. Or no jab no work, or get a haircut, go out for lunch, take your child in to a store to have shoes fitted,
or attend a school formal, a wedding, a concert, do any other normal everyday activity.
Vaccine hesitant people were once again not only labelled as the scum of society but actively denigrated by the
Premier and govt officials. "Vaccinated people don't want to attend a venue where the person making their coffee is
unjabbed." the Premier arrogantly quipped as if the vaccinated were somehow not going to contract covidl9, or the
unvaccinated were going to be some sort of super spreading filthy vermin. The vaccine passport was the passport to
freedom. Yet it didn't change anything as far as the spread of the virus was concerned. Victoria has the worst covidl9
track record. Many succumbed to the pressure and relented. Sadly many paid a high price, with some paying the
ultimate price.
I pleaded with the PM to overrule the states and make vaccine mandates illegal as the constitutional legal mechanism
existed, but all I received was a contradictory response saying vaccines are not mandatory, but everyone should get
one.

W.H.O. - PANDEMIC TREATY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS: Which brings me to the point of future responses.
The W.H.O. currently has Australia signed up and ready to ratify the pandemic treaty.
For future pandemics it will mean the WHO will dictate what constitutes a "health emergency", what medical
products must be allowed and administered, and everyone will be on board with the new digital vaccine certificate
system, which once again will be used to coerce people into subjecting themselves to unproven, dangerous and
ineffective but highly profitable medical products. Only if they want to do things like work, travel outside their zone,
have a haircut, etc... Coupled with the Disinformation Bill on hand to censor dissenting or sceptical voices, the one size
hammer fits all approach will be ready to deploy at the "speed of science".

The question is after everything that's happened in the last 3 years, is this this the best we can do as a society?
And do we want to do it again? Or could we have taken the Swedish approach which has now proven to be far less
damaging to the population and economy?
