Dear Sir/Madam,
I am submitting this paper to you as a result of the complete madness that has occurred over
these past 2-3 years. I am a retired woman of senior years and like to help in the community
as a volunteer. My points below are areas I wish your Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel to
address so that the citizens of this country never again endure what we have been through.

Point 1:
’’Valid Consent” of the Australian Govt. Dept, of Health - Immunisation Handbook, and I
quote:

VALID CONSENT
Valid consent is the voluntary agreement by an individual to a proposed procedure, which is
given after sufficient, appropriate and reliable information about the procedure, including
the potential risks and benefits, has been conveyed to that individual.

As part of the consent procedure, people receiving vaccines and/or their parents or carers
should be given sufficient information (preferably written) about the risks and benefits of
each vaccine. This includes:
      •           what adverse events are possible
      •           how common they are
      •           what they should do about them
Criteria for valid consent
For consent to be legally valid, the following elements must be present:


 1.     It must be given by a person with legal capacity, and ofsufficient intellectual capacity
       to understand the implications of receiving a vaccine.
  2.   It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or
       manipulation.
  3.     It must cover the specific procedure that is to be performed.
  4. It can only be given after the potential risks and benefits of the relevant vaccine, the
     risks of not having it, and any alternative options have been explained to the person.
  5. The person must have the opportunity to seek more details or explanations about the
     vaccine or its administration.

       Results: The States and Territories MANDATED employees. I also quote what our
       Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday 6th August 2021:


       “We do not have a mandatory vaccination policy in this country. We do not have that.
       We ’re not proposing to have that. That is not changing. ”

       The Federal Government stated this was NOT mandatory!! But they lied and people
       lost their jobs, they were locked out of society and families were torn apart.


     Solution: The Immunisation Handbook already has the solution. Every person
  has the right to choose whether they have a medical procedure or not.
Point 2:
PROVISIONAL APPROVAL ONLY
The Australian Government Department of Health -TGA website states:
      Allfour COVID-19 vaccines which have been granted provisional approval in
      A ustralia - from Pfizer (Comirnaty), AstraZeneca (Vaxzevria), Moderna
      (Spikevax) and COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are also recognisedfor incoming
      travellers.

      They also removed drugs readily available, like Ivermectin, so they could
      provisionally approve the “vaccines”. Interestingly they have now reinstated
      these drugs. So much deceit in all of the Govt actions.

       Results: Tens of thousands have died but the Government has denied any link.
Not to mention the thousands who are now permanently injured with no compensation
or support from this Government.
This “vaccine” was rushed through. It was never “Safe and Effective”. The Govt lied to
us.

       Solution: Do the required testing and report HONEST results. Allow the use of
drugs that have been available for decades. Support the Australians who have been
harmed and provide financially with the allocated funding

Point 3:
APRHA

       The primary role of this Regulation Agency is to protect the public and set standards
       and policies that all registered health practitioners must meet.
       This Agency gagged doctors by not allowing them to tell patients the truth. And then
       deregistered them if they followed their conscience. Ensuring patient safety is at the heart
       of the Hippocratic Oath: First, Do No Harm.

        Results: Doctors and medical staff have left, or been deregistered, and this has
created a huge shortage of medical care across Australia. APRHA have left these
deregistered doctors in limbo for years, unable to make a living. And their charges are
sited as “Misconduct”.

       Solution: Allow doctors to abide by their oath and bring integrity and truth back
into APRHA and all Medical spheres.




Yours sincerely
