Submission on the need for a Royal Commission on the Government's and States' responses to the
Covid-19 pandemic

I am an economist                                working for myself,

   1.  According to professor John loannidis from Stanford University and many other scientists
       around the world, the mortality rate of Covid-19 is low and similar to the flu of around
       0.22%. Why was a pandemic declared and why was the definition of a pandemic modified to
       not require a large number of deaths and be very severe?
   2. Why was there no study of the situation by the Government, TGA, ATAGI and their scientists
       to realize that there was no need for lockdowns? All small and medium size businesses
       suffered to the benefit of very large businesses like Amazon. This resulted in a large transfer
       of wealth and tremendous loss of GDP.
   3. Masks do not work for nanoparticles like the Corona virus, according to numerous studies.
       Why was there an insistence of mandating masks under the circumstances? They do not
       reduce the spread or protect oneself from viruses. It is obvious that nanoparticles can go
       through. Why do officials wear masks in public, only to take them off in private (but still
       surrounded by people)? Duplicity shows they did not trust their own mandates. See Nancy
       Pelosi the US Congress previous speaker, Boris Johnson the previous UK pm and many
       others. Masks now pollute the oceans and the earth.
   4. Why is the PCR test used for Covid-19 since Kerry Mullis the inventor clearly stated that it is
       not a diagnostic test and if the cycles are high anything and everything shows up, leading to
       many false positives? Who had an interest in creating panic and having many cases around?
   5. What are "cases"? Aren't we supposed to look for sick people? These cases for the most part
       had no symptoms. Was it reasonable to lock these people in quarantine?
   6. Quarantine was always used for the sick. Not for the healthy people. What changed
       suddenly and why?
   7. What is the connection to Big pharma of all our health ministers, prime ministers and
       premiers? Was there a money trail that is not supposed to be there? They seem to have all
       stopped working at the same time and do not need a job anymore. And what is with all their
       connections to Big pharma and to the World Economic Forum through marriage or direct
       relatives?
   8. What is the connection to the World Economic Forum of our leaders and why are our
       Governments at Federal and State levels penetrated by Klaus Schwab (in his own words
       most ministers and leaders are "Young Leaders" trained by him)? Do we really need his
       "Great Reset"? I don't think the Australian people or the world population wants it.
   9. Why was an injection against a genetic bioweapon (Corona virus responsible against Covid-
       19) called a "vaccine"? Was it because then people would trust it and take it? Was the
       purpose to make money for the manufacturers at the expense of people? Wasn't the fact
       relevant that all the animals tested with this new mRNA technology (genetic technology)
       over the last 50 years died?
   10. According to Pfizer the mRNA vaccine is a genetic injection. Why was there no license sought
       from the Gene Therapy organization in Australia for the importation and transportation of
       this injection in Australia? Isn't there a law requiring such a license to be sought for any
       genetic product? Are there any prosecutions happening? The law says they should. Are
       they?
   11. According to Pfizer management the injection does not stop one from getting the virus and
       it does not stop one from transmitting the virus. Why mandate such a vaccine, or any
       vaccine for the matter, since it is a personal choice of what to put in one's body and the
    freedom of choice trumps anything else? Why did all governments lie about all this and why
    did they lie in unison around the world and why did they lie so insistently?
12. How is a Government elected by the people coming back to mandate anything to the people
    that elected it, for their own safety? Isn't one's safety a personal responsibility, inalienable,
    that cannot be subjugated to any government or agency?
13. In a democratic society a Government is not supposed to mandate anything when it comes
    to a medical procedure. Isn't the Nuremberg code supposed to apply? Pfizer admitted that
    the injection is a world-wide trial, TGA has concurred and so did the health minister.
14. Why is any Government able to declare an Emergency and then dictatorially limit the
    freedom of movement, freedom of expression and freedom of rejecting an invasive and
    dangerous medical procedure? Emergencies have their place but they were grossly misused
    here, leading to dictatorial powers of States and Federal governments.
15. Why was there no information published on the injection, side effects, ingredients and
    more, before insisting through never ending propaganda (unsubstantiated) to take it?
16. The excess mortality increase worldwide is of a statistically significant nature and coincides
    in time with the release of the Pfizer, Moderna, J&J and Novavax injections. Why is there no
    system for following up on the deaths and adverse reactions of these injections? The VAERS
    system shows unprecedented numbers of death and adverse reactions for the Covid-19
    injection, more than all other previous normal vaccines combined, since inception. Why was
    there not a recall of this injection? According to scientists the figures in VAERS are
    underrepresented by a factor of 40.
17. The absolute and relative efficacy of this injection have been manipulated to show a 95%
    efficacy in reducing the severity of the symptoms instead of the real 0.85% efficacy. Do our
    scientists not see these figures? They rely blindly on the figures given to them from overseas
    and make the huge error of costing our citizens' lives and health. They don't seem to be able
    to read these figures, even when other scientists quote them precisely.
18. Why are there no autopsies conducted on those suspected of dying from the injections?
    What are the fibrous materials found in people's blood vessels, blocking their blood vessels
    almost obstructing them completely, observed by embalmers around the world, conformed
    by the autopsies conducted by scientists in Germany?
19. Why are there millions of DNA fragments contaminating each injection vial? Why were the
    manufacturing practises changed so that the actual injections were different from the ones
    used in the trials? Why were good manufacturing practices (GMP) not followed? See Sasha
    Latipova studies.
20. Why were there no further trials on the boosters? Why were they only trialled on 8 mice and
    why was that sufficient for releasing them worldwide?
21. Why was the Corona virus patented 58 years ago? Why are there patents many years before
    the Covid vaccines were "manufactured"? Why were multiple patents registered for masks,
    injections, PCR tests years before the "outbreak"?
22. When is the research into bioweapons going to stop once and for all so that we do not get
    any more "pandemics" released?
23. It is clear that the Corona virus is a patented bioweapon released from the Wuhan Institute
    of Technology and contracted by the US. The spike protein is a bioweapon with elements of
    HIV, nanoparticles, hydrogel, graphene oxide self-assembly elements, mRNA and
    telecommunications mini devices, connected to US DARPA military research into
    bioweapons.
24. Why were Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine banned, since they were so effective, more
    effective than the injection itself? India has used them very effectively. Was this necessary
    so that injections can be marketed as the sole treatment in existence and not threaten their
    profit potential?
25. Why were doctors threatened with losing their jobs if they went against the narrative of
    pushing these injections?
26. Why did virtually all health ministers and State premiers resign pretty much at the same
    time?
27. Was there a collusion with the pharmaceutical companies to push injections instead of more
    effective treatments? Was there a money trail involved and corruption at these highest
    levels?
28. Why are unelected people at the WHO intending to delete the section referring to
    "respecting human rights" from the International Health Regulations and the WHO Treaty,
    without any consultation of the people who will suffer from this (i.e. the Australian people)?
    Why are we renouncing our sovereignty as a country to the WHO which has in its
    foundational charter the stated purpose of "population control"? These are unelected
    officials that now intend to dictate worldwide our health response to health emergencies
    and climate emergencies. This is unacceptable and we should exit the WHO and stop
    wasting taxpayer money on them. If these amendments and the treaty are not rejected we
    are subject to the dictates of the WHO on lockdowns, medical treatments and other dictates
    and will lose our National Sovereignty. I hope we reject these measures and exit the WHO.
29. Bill Gates has a foundation that has a stated goal of reducing the population through
    vaccines. He said so himself in his TED talks. Why is he dictating to Australians our health
    responses?
30. Why is there no liability for pharmaceutical companies that make injections? How are they
    supposed to honestly test and produce effective and safe injections under the
    circumstances?
31. The regulatory organizations are too lax and collude with the pharmaceutical companies and
    the nexus between the two must be severed. There should be a total ban of moving
    employment from one to the other. The corrupt payments between government officials,
    pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies must be investigated and prosecuted.
32. Why were the injections patented and who owns the patents? Is there a conflict of interest
    here? This should be investigated.
33. Children have complete immunity from Corona virus. Why was there an unscientific push to
    inject innocent children with a potentially harmful serum? Numerous studies and scientists,
    molecular biologists, virologists and doctors around the world have lost their jobs but
    heroically attest to this. The Barrington Declaration was signed by over 18,000 doctors
    worldwide, many Nobel Laureates or even inventors of the mRNA technology. The risk was
    much higher than the reward when it comes to children.
34. Why was natural immunity ignored? We relied on it for millennia for the survival of our
    species.
35. The many side effects of the injections, (listed on nine pages by leaked Pfizer documents,
    documents that were supposed to remain hidden for 75 years were it not for a FOI and the
    order of a judge for the US FDA to release these) start with myocarditis and pericarditis,
    continue with misfolded proteins (prions) which can lead to diseases like mad cow disease,
    Parkinson's and Alzheimer's, many other neurological conditions, immunity reduction and
    susceptibility to "turbo cancers" in all ages and many others. These also need investigating
    and disclosing. Genetic, new technologies, not properly tested are dangerous. The medium
    term and long term effects of these injections are unknown.
    36. Being that these mRNA injections remain in the body for many months, go to all the organs
        of the body and have the potential of modifying our DMAs, they are extremely dangerous.
        They also alter our genome through reverse transcriptase and can be transmitted to our
        offspring. Tests show that clearly, in spite of denials from the proponents.
    37. The scientists that created this technology many years ago realized that it was not viable and
        led to failed experiments on ferrets and other animals. Nevertheless they were released to
        the worldwide public. Why? This certainly needs investigating and disclosing to the
        Australian people who are now suffering as a result.
    38. Many new mRNA or modRNA (modified RNA) injections are in the works. The newest ones
        are self-propagating modRNA injections that penetrate all the tissues in the body.
    39. mRNA injections are now planned for livestock (pigs have had these injections in the US
        since 2018) see US Congress testimonies.
    40. mRNA injections are also planned for vegetable products, inhalables, skin patches,
        mosquitoes and release on mass through chemtrails released from planes, thus not
        requiring informed consent.
    41. What is the connection between the injection ingredients and the patents to connect and
        affect people internally through the 5G technology?
    42. Remdesivir is one of the few Pfizer medications allowable to be used for Covid-19. In the
        past it has proven to lead to kidney failure in 40-50% of cases. Combined with ventilators
        and Midazolam it is deemed to be responsible for most deaths attributed to Covid, that
        would have otherwise not happened, especially in the elderly. A lot can be said about
        natural immunity being a lot more efficient than human medical intervention.
    43. A free society needs debate. From debate springs true scientific discovery. Why was
        censorship brought in to curb these freedoms we have? Censorship does not work and will
        not work. The information is now in people's minds and cannot be deleted from there. What
        we saw cannot be unseen.
    44. Scientific studies need to be independently funded. If Big Pharma funds a study there is a
        conflict of interest. They sweep under the rug all studies except those that fit their profit
        agenda, to the detriment of the unsuspecting users of their product. Then they pay their
        way to profit through doctors, scientists, regulators and governments.

These are some of the questions that the Australian people are aware of and that require an answer.
The only way to investigate these and many other questions relating to the failed response to this
non-pandemic and to bring the guilty, treasonous parties to justice is to have a Royal Commission. I
hope that a Royal Commission is instigated and looks in-depth at all these issues that have changed
our way of life for the worst. I hope we can reverse this trend and return to the more reasonable
world we are supposed to have. I reject the World Economic Forum's "Great Reset" as a dystopian
reality that has no place on Earth.
