My name            and I live                      originally from



This COVID Inquiiy needs to include the States responses to vaccine mandates, state border closures, loekdowns
and check-in rules. If not, this proves tothe Australianpeople that our Gov eminent do not -respect or take into
account oui'concerns.

At Federation we became 'one self governing •colony and our only border is 12 mile out to sea. We are an island
nation. All we needed to do in response to any “Eandemic” is to close our international border. Any Australian
wishing to return home from overseas must quarantine on their return for X am ount of days before returning to
their family.

No one should pf lost their job and ability to feed and support their families, stopped from seeing family,
attending medical appointments, funerals, weddings, •attending school, shops, restaurants and businesses closing
down, and to show a pass to allow them to participate in society. This is not Australian.

No experimental drug needed to be forced and coerced on any Australian. There should always have been a
choice when it comes to foreign, untested substances to be inj ected into ones, own body, including what type of
food and beverage. No one man or woman is made the same, it is why we are called individuals. So there will
never be a “one size fits all” for any medication on the market, including vaccines. Some people wont experience
side effects but others will. No one knows their body better tlran themselves. No stranger, including any
Politician or Health Minister knows me or the state of my health, so how can they tell me what I must put into
my body? And then threaten and bully me that if I do not comply, that I will be punished by losing my
livelihood, not being able to attend my medical appointments and visit my family? My life is important to me, it
is obvious that the people I elect to represent me in Govei-ninent, do not feel the same way. These draconian
measures prove this.




my medical history and tlie inflammatorysideeffectsof the CO VID injection (Mycarditis and Pericatditis), Twas
unable to get a medical exemption from either my Doctor or Cardialogist for fear they would be investigated and
they lose - their livlihood. The words quoted by my Cardiologist “ Your Doctor is telling the truth, the Government
are being very aggressive on this”.



This Inquiiy needs to stop any of these pandemic measures to ever be forced on the Australian population and
medical profession in any future pandemic. They did more damage than the 2.3% that were at high risk of dying
from CO VID-19 and that figure would have been the high risk groups, ie elderly and people with one or more
comorbidities.

I know too. many people who have had side effects from the experimental CO VID-19 inj ection. Not one of them
wanted it but they had no choice if they wanted to keep their j ob. A high price to pay.

We need to know why we have such a high excess mortality rate in Australia as seen in other highly vaccinated
countries. We failed somewhere and we must not let history repeat itself.
