                                        F :ICIAL

             Australian Government
             Department of Industry,
             Science and Resources



Independent Panel:
Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Submission from the Department of Industry,
Science and Resources
| industry.gov.au/




Independent Panel: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
| industry.gov.au/                                                     1
                                       OFFICIAL
                                              OFFICIAL
The Department of Industry, Science and Resources (the department) welcomes the opportunity to
provide a submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.


The Department of Industry, Science and
Resources’ response
The department's purpose is to help the Government to build a better future for all Australians through
enabling a productive, resilient and sustainable economy, enriched by science and technology. This
includes supporting Australian industry and businesses during disaster events.
The department’s role during the pandemic
The pandemic impacted all industries in Australia and involved exceptional supply chain disruptions,
demands, and lockdowns. The scale, nature, and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic presented an
unprecedented challenge to the department. To respond to these challenges, the department moved
swiftly to establish new teams and functions. The department's role during the pandemic included:
    •    providing immediate support to industry —through subsidised loans, grants, and brokering
         industry and academic partnerships — to establish new domestic manufacturing capability of
         medical supplies, including ventilators, PCR testing supplies, face masks and face shields
    •    playing a leading role to help secure access of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and
         essential medical supplies for the Australian Government National Medical Stockpile. The
         department established three taskforces (PPE, ventilators, testing kits) to work with industry
         to source, triage and assess offers of supplies for the Department of Health to procure for the
         Stockpile
    •    supporting domestic manufacturers with ‘free access' to product manufacturing standards for
         PPE and establishing new domestic product testing capabilities through the National
         Measurement Institute (NMI). NMI provided critical assurance that Australian-sourced
         supplies and testing were fit for purpose, including:
             o   establishing Australia's first accredited facility for testing face masks and hand
                 sanitiser with the Therapeutic Goods Administration and Australian Competition and
                 Consumer Commission (ACCC)
             o   developing a world-first genetic reference material for the SARS-CoV2 virus that
                 enabled pathology laboratories and wastewater treatment facilities to confirm test
                 results with confidence.


Reflections on what worked well
The department has identified three key factors that worked well during the pandemic, which could be
replicated or strengthened in preparation for future crises.
    1.       Close cooperation with industry
The pandemic demonstrated a high level of responsiveness, flexibility and collaboration between the
department and domestic industry and businesses to secure critical supplies. The long-standing
productive relationships between the department and industry enabled swift consultation and action to
develop market-led solutions. For example, leveraging the department's industry insights, national
Auslndustry networks, and connections with the science sector allowed us to rapidly capture changes
in markets and facilitated collaboration on industry-led solutions such as the Advanced Manufacturing
Growth Centre's Manufacturer Response Register.


The department also relayed insights gathered from industry to wider whole-of-government responses
including:



Independent Panel: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
| industry.gov.au/                                                                                     2
                                              OFFICIAL
                                              OFFICIAL
    •    Industry Senior Officials' Meetings, which fostered information sharing among jurisdictions
         regarding the PPE work that governments were undertaking
    •    Health Industry Consultation Group, which facilitated coordination across agencies, states
         and territories, and the private sector to expedite the development of PPE approvals
         processes
    •    Food and Grocery Taskforce, which shared information across jurisdictions about managing
         food and grocery supply chain issues at the height of panic-buying.
Leveraging the department's relationships and knowledge of domestic industry provided opportunities
to expedite and target government support to those most in need during a crisis. The department's
engagement in broader governance groups was also key to ensuring industry's views were heard. For
example, industry was keen to share their expertise and see greater consistency across jurisdictions.
    2.       Regulatory flexibility
Business groups and industry peaks sought ACCC exemptions so businesses could exchange
information about stock availability and, if necessary, share inventory and coordinate the distribution
of supplies. Taking a pragmatic and flexible approach to competition regulation during the pandemic
saw competitor collaborations in the national interest which would ordinarily be prohibited.
    3.       Targeted support for industry and businesses
The department supported industry via multiple targeted mechanisms. For example, the department
developed the COVID-19 Manufacturer Response Register via the Advanced Manufacturing Growth
Centre to support partnerships to produce essential goods domestically. The online register linked
businesses to collaborate or form consortia to enable them to respond to pandemic demand. This
helped to centralise Australia's manufacturing efforts, reduce duplication, and enabled nation-wide
collaboration.
The department also provided local manufacturing grants through the Australian Manufacturing Fund
for PPE. This expanded domestic manufacturing capability for medical devices, including face masks,
face shields, ventilators, and RNA extraction kits.


Reflections on challenges encountered
The department has identified the following challenges that could require a whole-of-government
approach to manage in future crises.
    1.       Importance of clear communication
 Feedback from industry during and after the pandemic highlighted the value of clear, simple,
consistent, and accessible communications from government. For industries operating across
jurisdictions and across different levels of government, clear and consistent communications was
extremely important to ensure operations. Continuous and direct engagement with state and territory
 leaders and chief medical officers, along with clear pathways to provide feedback to authorities, was
 reported as extremely important for business continuity.
    2.       Unclear role for the department in responding to crises
The pandemic highlighted that the role of the department in a national crisis of this kind was not
captured in current crisis management policies and frameworks. The department's role demonstrated
the need for crisis management policies to be more flexible to allow agencies to respond quickly to
the full range of supply chain challenges presented by the pandemic.
The department is engaging with relevant government agencies to further define the department's
role, particularly in mitigating supply chain disruptions in a whole-of-government crisis response.


Key lessons learned
Supply chains


Independent Panel: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
| industry.gov.au/                                                                                        3
                                              OFFICIAL
                                                OFFICIAL
The scale and duration of the supply chain disruptions experienced during the pandemic were
unprecedented and required a national response. They presented unforeseen challenges for industry.
The pandemic required whole-of-government coordination on supply chain issues. The Government
established the Office of Supply Chain Resilience (OSCR), which moved to the Department of
Industry, Science and Resources in 2022. Working together with OSCR, the department established
the Supply Chain Roundtable and Supply Chain Monitor to enable responsive advice and policy
development across government to alleviate supply chain pressures.
OSCR proactively monitors and assesses critical supply chain vulnerabilities that could impact
Australia's national interest and guides whole-of-government efforts to improve supply chain
resilience. OSCR is now pursuing projects to deliver greater insights into supply chain vulnerabilities
and develop an early warning system that detects abnormalities in trade.
National coordination
During the height of COVID-19, many Australian government jurisdictions were seeking to individually
buy the same critical goods and establish the same manufacturing capabilities. While governments
successfully secured supplies in a globally constrained market, the decentralised approach duplicated
efforts and contributed additional burden to industry.
The National Coordination Mechanism played a central role in the early stages of COVID-19 in
coordinating non-medical aspects of the national crisis response such as supply-chain disruptions,
food supply interruptions, and infrastructure repair and maintenance. In a future crisis, a similar
whole-of-government, nationally coordinated procurement approach for ensuring the supply of critical
products and services would reduce costs, maximise economic efficiency and ease the burden on
suppliers.
Revitalising Australian industry
In response to lessons learnt on the risks presented by international supply disruptions, in a future
crisis, it is critical to understand local manufacturing capability to produce goods for the National
Medical Stockpile. This will assist addressing the criticality of supply for Australia's national interest
requirements.
The Government's Buy Australian Plan actively supports domestic industry and manufacturing
capability by leveraging the Commonwealth's significant purchasing power to build local capability.
The National Reconstruction Fund will also support Australia's industry capabilities in medical
science, with $1.5 billion allocated for targeted investments in medical manufacturing. The Industry
Growth Program will also support small businesses to commercialise and bring new products to
market in the National Reconstruction Fund priority areas.


Conclusion
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a lasting impact on the department's work and how we support
industry and businesses. Resilience is a central component of industry policy and is reflected in core
policies such as the National Reconstruction Fund, Industry Growth Program and the Buy Australian
Plan.
The department also continues to embed capability to respond to future crises through its work in
monitoring critical supply chains, supporting domestic manufacturing and fostering a culture of
collaboration with industry and between all levels of government.




Independent Panel: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
| industry.gov.au/                                                                                           4
                                                OFFICIAL
