Due to the Governments Covid 19 response my family and my life has changed forever.

The NSW government mandated a vaccine for teachers with no evidence that it protected others, as
a result I was placed under investigation by the NSW department of Education despite being on leave
when the mandate begun.

During the Christmas holidays of 2021/22 I contracted Covid and was given and exemption by my
Doctor and the Australian Government. Despite this and the fact that I was compliant with the Public
Health order and the Departments vaccine requirements I was denied a return to school and my
investigation into misconduct continued.

I tried on numerous occasions to get the Department to explain why I was not permitted to return to
school, however I was ignored for long periods of time. I contacted Mark Latham who brought up my
particular case during a budget estimates hearing into Education. The question was taken on notice
and no further information was given other than the Department saying the don't discuss individual
matters. I continued to push for my return, with my Mental health and that of my families
deteriorating with the threat and possibility I may never teach again (I was threatened with being
placed on the not to be employed list)
During this time I received no support from my school or my work colleagues with not a single
teacher contacting me in over a year.
When the mandate ended, the Department decided to keep those employees who were
unvaccinated or under investigation at home while there was a teacher shortage crisis and hundreds,
even thousands of classes were being left uncovered daily.
When the Department finally allowed staff to return, I was told I was not to return as the looked into
whether I had been unprofessional during my previous investigation. I was told I would be contacted
in the near future. I was left at home for a further term with zero contact, all while my Mental health
was at an all time low.
I was finally contacted by the department and told I was under investigation for unprofessional
conduct (essentially sending to many emails because one, the department failed to follow its own
policies and 2 it failed to return my emails in a timely many (I went 6 weeks where they failed to
respond to any of my emauils)
I was placed at an alternative school, normally only reserved for those who are a danger to someone
at their own school, I queried this and again was not given a reasonable response.
My investigation dragged on throughout the Christmas 2022/23 period, not a great way to spend
Christmas under investigation for misconduct for the second year running due to the Governments
and the Departments pointless, coercive and destructive vaccine mandates.

After 3 weeks into the first term or 2023, I was told I had been guilty of misconduct for the second
time and that I was to return to my original school and my conduct to be monitored for a year.

On my return my reputation had been ruined as had my rapport with the students and community. I
had lost a number of roles and responsibilities that I had worked hard during my 20 year career to
achieve. A number of staff now close to a year on have yet to speak to me, they avoid even making
eye contact. I have been overlooked for roles I held before the pandemic.
I have been left disillusioned with my career and suffer ongoing Mental Health issues. The
Department and my school executive just wish to pretend this never happened and want to just
move on while I feel my career and reputation and so called friendships with my work colleagues
have been destroyed. Everyday I suffer due to the mandates imposed by the Government and
Department of Education.
What Science were these Mandates based on? How were they expected to protect other, especially
students who were at very little risk of Covid, about the same risk they have faced from the Flu and
other illnesses since they have been attending school.
Their Education was destroyed, friendships, connections, social development all suffered due to
school closures. They got it wrong, who should be held accountable? Where was the evidence that
this was the right thing to do? Many people warned the Government and others of the potential
harms, they were well aware but continued regardless.

My passion and love for teaching has gone, possibly never to return as a result of the Governments
response to Covid, I now struggle with mental health issues caused by the Governments poor
management based on zero science. Coercion is not consent, and no person should ever have to
make a health decision with the threat of losing their job being held over them.
People need to be held accountable and their needs to be a Royal Commission, not just and inquiry
with zero power to hold those responsible accountable
