Department of Health Australia, Merck KGaA
Author:
Institution:!
Address:
Phone |
Email: ly J' j “ ,■«'*/' \.;   \■/ ’ > •;   y r ,r« -j' /' \
Date: 10-8-21


UN Intelligence Field Submission to Department of Health Australia. From the writer of "One Diagnosis, One

Disease, One Treatment", a confidential document submitted to the Australian Minister of Health and Australian

Department of Health under a request for security clearance in 2019.


Publication Change: Partial release of the missing sections: From a request from confidential PROTECTED status to

public domain.


Recommending: Continuing power of State of Emergency: Governor General Administrative Arrangement Order

for the abolishment and the restructuring of Department of Health and a compulsory education update and

Merck manufacturing proposition.


One Diagnosis, One Disease, One Treatment: the consequences of an inherited unintentional language error in

the textbooks and curriculum of the western English medical system.


Introduction:


In 2018-2019, a historical inherited language misinterpretation and mistranslation error was identified from

reading the ancient first edition medical textbooks stored in the ancient archive libraries. Up until the

digitalisation of the ancient archives, it was impossible for anyone in medicine to have known where the language

error stemmed from. The original medical textbooks were stored in monastery libraries, private collector
libraries, private university libraries, private business corporation libraries. No one had access. Yet almost

mockingly some of the ancient wisdom was stored in plain sight via inscriptions written on ancient temples, yet

although in plain sight the ancient medical wisdom was symbolically buried in an inability to decipher the code

and the languages.


The language translation error causes a very high risk of morbidity and fatality. It is a long history of translation

errors but there was a major historical translation error that occurred in 18921 and 1901" in the United States of

America, and this Latin to English error was then transferred to the world. This major language error continues to

this day in our current editions.

Australia was not yet a Federation when the initial errors occurred, thus Australia simply inherited an error that

was taught and then enforced for over 100 years, in policy from Department of Health ratified by Ministers of

Health. All countries find themselves in similar situations. I can find no motivation for the error out of America

(inherited from the United Kingdom, remembering USA was originally also a colony of UK) other than our
ancestors had an attitude problem and a severe level of incompetency of the Latin language and an incompetency
in the historically compulsory subject Materia Medica. A complete tragedy.


The translation error breaks our hearts for the realisation of the unnecessary suffering of our patients, and for the

suffering of practitioners alike. Our patients were our families. As practitioners we are also patients. This is not a

conspiracy or deliberate, merely a tragedy. There is no motive. It is a collective accident with a collective solution.

With the rise of the British Empire, a large majority of the world followed the English based system of medicine

and followed English textbooks. The WHO was established in 1948, thus WHO had the translation errors from the

day they were inaugurated. The WHO factsheets were then translated to most languages. A global catastrophe.


Thus, as a world community we are united in grief and mourning. We have unintentionally poisoned ourselves via

a translation error in medicine. We have also unintentionally bankrupted ourselves due to the same error in

medicine.




The new Department of Health system should repay the coronavirus debt quickly.


There is no Bigpharma conspiracy for finances. Bigpharma lost a fortune. One cannot patent botanical drug

medicine as the extraction process was declared in the Pharmacopoeias in accordance with Medical Act 1858 LIV.

No one could patent, but everyone could profit. The laws of Medical Act 1858 imply Drs in Public Health must

prescribe from the Pharmacopoeias. Private Health allowed experimental medicine. This clause allowed for new

techniques to market, but it came with a risk of "user pay" both if there were negative side effect consequences

of an experiment gone wrong and pay via financially funding the experiments. Some conditions were unable to be

treated under the old system, thus this private system allowing new techniques to market was an essential risk1*".

It has its purpose for allowing R & D, however medical experiments should never me mandated as "compulsory"

as the experiments can go terribly wrong. Medical experimenting is user pay!


The Public Health Drs were supposed to prescribe from the "safe and effective" listings of Pharmacopoeias where

the drugs had been manufactured on the same standard to allow consistency of dosing and consistency of

outcomes if the manufacturing was on consistent standards. The Pharmacopoeias were mainly minerals and

botanical drugs1. Some single isolates were already listed. It was a wise legislation. This legislation was breached

from 1910 after the Corporate Funded Flexner Report was released in North America.


The end of the Pandemic will come with new textbooks that contain suitable treatment to hundreds of conditions

in the previously accepted "Systemic Theory of Medicine". There was an ancient keycode in the Systemic Theory

pre-Hippocrates, Pre Galen, that had been lost in archives of the Ashurbanipal library and lost in translations of

Greek writers. Merck almost completed the keycode in 1899IV.




1 The British Pharmacopeia was published in 1864. "Safe and effective" in 1864 is limited to the chemistry knowledge of
1864. Many drugs listed in 1864 are poisons. The framework for the beginning of the Periodic Table is not designed until
1869.
                                                                                                                           1
To fix the error we need practitioners to study two subjects. Materia Medica and Latin. By studying two subjects
we will have suitable treatments ready for market for hundreds of conditions as soon as the manufacturing is

complete, and as soon as the education update is complete. Thus within 6 months the transitioning should be

operational with a fully operational system within two years. New graduates of medicine will be automatically

taught on the two subjects that were compulsory subjects in all bylaws of all medical associations listed in the

Medical Act of 1858 schedule Av.


The research of the error was advised to be placed in under a security clearance until the solution was ready.


A State of Emergency is to allow laws to be changed quickly. There is an absolute crisis.


The current editions of both major textbooks taught at medical schools of Principles and Practices of Medicine

                          Merck Manuals online and WHO factsheets online have language translation errors in

over 800 sections. For each section caught up in the translation errors a patient had a risk of 100% morbidity

and/or fatality via drug interactions and/or complications of surgical procedures if the patients were compliant

and if the patients took the drugs for each "Latin/Greek" complaint. There are no laws patients must follow

advice, except in the involuntary Mental Health Act. We are fortunate that patients selectively ignored advice
and patients threw away medicines if they experienced negative side effects and negative reactions in

combinations of drugs. If patients followed their prescriptions, it is possible their deaths were caused by drug

interactions.


A global state of mourning is to be declared.

The State of Emergency needs to continue for legal and legislatively purposes. But the recommendations of

lockdowns of other industries must end for seasonal Coronaviruses. Health must focus on health legislation and

health policy. The western news outlets were instructed to shout a "99 year old has died" by the intelligence

field. How did no one hear this? The vaccine to market and vaccine passport debate is nothing to do with the

information under security clearance or the State of Emergency for One Diagnosis, One Disease, One Treatment.

Adding to people's confusion, two very different stories were overhyping the media at the same time. Our

Australian Chief Health Officers and Ministers of Health Offices chose to focus on the lesser emergencies of the

two State of Emergencies, a 100% risk is a catastrophe, a 0.01%vl chance of testing positive is manageable.


For 2 years, I kept the information under a security clearance granted with a foreign government, as I retranslated
the textbooks as fast as possible and worked to create a suitable education training program to update medical

education. The lonely responsibility came at a severe personal detriment. It was not an easy responsibility to

burden. I asked for assistance in 2019. I was ignored in Australia. America offered quiet assistance.


I vomited and cried every day that I had the sole burden to type the translations and the education update. I had

to read the first editions. I read translations of books as far back as 4000 years ago from Babylon. I read the first

editions of Galen, Hippocrates, Dioscorides, Avicenna, Vesalii, Vicary, Gray, Paracelsus, Culpepper, Willis, Peyrilhe,

Harvey, Jean Astruc, Guillotin, Semmelweis, Koch, Jenner, Pasteur, Loye, Simon Flexner, Sims, Halsted, Brown

                                                                                                                        2
Sequard, Willard, Ashhurst, Lister, Fisher, Simmons, Voronoff, Flemming, Morell, Wirth, Mengele, Cameron,
Bleuler, Breuer, Freud, Osler, Merck etc. I read the 19th-20th experiments off military classifications. I verbally

heard the stories of the "on DOD military classifications" on a past role with UNHCR. I traced the language

translation errors through all the early textbooks and then I read the consequences of the translation language

error in the medical experiments.


The raw, unglamorized, non-self-worshiped version of the history of western medicine that we are inheriting is

appalling. The death toll is very high. The suffering inflicted to patients is very high. The continued instruction of

over hyping of the media for issuing of a State of Emergency is 100% real. We have a crisis that needs to be fixed.


The first draft of the new textbooks was completed by Easter of 2020, thus part of predictions that by Easter it

would "magically disappear" speech out of the USA was somewhat true for one of the two over hyped media

stories. Coronavirus strains will most likely always remain, with or without a vaccine, they are zoonotic. We can't

quarantine and vaccinate birds and bats. The new textbook has suitable treatment recommendations for

numerous zoonotic enveloped viruses, including Coronavirus, unless you are 99 years olds, or palliative care.


Build back better? It can't get any worst then the errors we have inherited.

No more blame or revenge. We were all wrong. We merely need to work together to fix it.


The Solution: Merck Archives


George Merck was close to solving a problem that plagued western medicine physicians since the Hippocratic

Corpus. George Merck almost broke an ancient language keycode of Materia Medica for the treatment of the

Systemic Theory of Diseases diagnostic differential classification separation of the two categories which were

merely "acute disease versus chronic disease" and "physical health versus soul health" in his layout of Merck

Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy first edition in 1899.


In 1899, George Merck in his introduction states:

"Smaller type has been employed - in order to economise space - for botanical drugs, gums, and some of the older

drugs and preparations that are so long and well known that little reference will be need made of them"''".


The statement of "so long and well known that little reference will be need made of them" then George Merck is

stating botanical drugs are effective medicine. To the physicians arguing botanical drugs are quackery, the

intellectual property of extraction process belonged to Merck. The extraction technique advancements were
developed around the same time Merck worked out how to pull morphine from poppies, yet in full tinctures and

fluid extracts there are fewer side effects. Combining a single isolate with a full tincture or fluid extract removes

most side effects of the higher dosed active ingredient. To deny botanical drugs as medicine is to deny the entire

history of medicine, the language of medicine and the fields of chemistry and pharmacology. Botanical drugs are

medicine, but there was a language keycode needed to understand their clinical use in Therapeutic Applications.



                                                                                                                         3
The Merck Manual text in 1899 was not without fault. There were many horrendous fatal mistakes in the Materia
Medica, that needed to be fixed, but the layout from George Merck was pure genius.


The language keycode in the Therapeutic Indication section of Merck Manual 1899 was almost complete. If it

wasn't for Merck trying to save space with "smaller type" due to the expense of printing, then all George Merck

needed in 1899 to make the "Systemic Theory Keycode of Treatment" complete was for the options of the Latin

named botanical drug to be listed under the Latin title heading of symptom/disease, or the Greek common name

of the botanical drug options to be listed under the Greek title if the symptom/disease was still being listed in

Greek, or the English common name of the botanical drug options to be listed under the English title of

symptom/disease. The Greek and Latin terms aetiology are derived from the language of Monographs of Materia

Medica.


In Systemic Theory, a patient can be experiencing up to 20 or 30 Latin signs and symptoms and "diagnosis" all at

once, as in history it was accepted as the Systemic Theory of Disease, and Systemic Theory of Treatment. It was

not a Reductionist Theory. Merck wrote a code of "see also". A simple design of format, yet effective. The more

signs and symptoms and "diagnosis" the patient had then the easier it is to find a suitable treatment and

prescription Rx in the previously accepted Systemic Theory of Disease. Remember, the shorthand for prescription,

Rx is from the old Latin word recipere, "to recipe".


The complete opposite situation exists in the Reductionist Model. The more "conditions and diagnosis" a patient

has, the more risks of warnings of drug interactions and the more risks of co diagnosis complications exist. This

situation occurs simply due to the language translation errors in 1901, and then the pharmaceutical industry post

1910 direction change of manufacturing from full extract to only single isolate.


    •       Full extract is "Systemic Theory".

    •       Single isolate is "Reductionist Theory".


There is little need to debate which is more correct as both are equally correct in the varying situations of varying

diseases that affect individual patients. Patients need both options.


Merck pharmacists since their establishment in 1668, advanced the work of Dioscorides. As chemists they

developed extraction techniques of tinctures and fluid extracts and expanded the library of botanical drug
knowledge of identifying both new species of plants, active ingredients, and toxic ingredients in the plants. Merck

also developed techniques to pull single isolated active chemicals from botanical sources to achieve a higher

therapeutic dose. All advancements were welcome, as Western medicine in the 17th century to 19th century was

not highly advanced. If you read the archives of the writers quoted above for yourselves, then it could be

described as the "dark era of medicine" however, the simplicity of the past error is tinctures and fluid extractions

simply needed to be continued to be manufactured by Bigpharma as well as the newer single isolates. They work

better together. Thus to fix it, all that needs to happen is remanufacture on the past Intellectual Property.




                                                                                                                       4
In 1899, George Merck's layout of the Materia Medica and Therapeutic Indications needed to be combined with
'some' of the publications stored in the archives of Merck Group that were written by Emmanuel Merck, namely

the "Merck Index 1889", and also the publication of "Extractions, Chemical Reaction and their Pureness, Mineral

Extractions" 1905 (publication is in German). Between George and Emmanuel Merck, thus between Merck and Co

USA, and Merck KGaA archive libraries, the Merck family had the information stored to assist to break a lost

keycode of treatment from the Systemic Theory of Disease from the ancient Library of Athena. A pre-Christian

library, from a pre-Hippocratic era, when the library was built to worship Athena the Goddess of Wisdom.


In history, the ancient Library of Athena was stolen and taken to Persia by King Xerxes I in 480BC. Hippocrates

lived in 460 BC-370 BC. The ancient library was not returned to Greece until King Seleucus ordered the stolen

books be returned during his region of 358 BC-281 BCVI". Thus, the Hippocratic Corpus, leading to the Galen
Corpus, which formed the basis of the current western medical system was not compiled during ancient Greece's

golden days, rather the Hippocratic Corpus was compiled when Greece was attempting to rebuild their lost

ancient library. In the ancient Library of Ashurbanipal, a library that was written in a similar time frame era to the

Library of Athena, but not excavated by archaeologists from the British Museum until 19th century, then there is a

document that I found the missing section of that helped explain it was a keycode that was missing. The missing

document from Ancient Babylon, is included in the training education update for medical practitioners.


A simple explanation for public domain is tribes and nomadic medicine people did not read or write, thus there

was an oral keycode in botanical drugs. The cities empires in colony expansion, went into the lands of the savages
(silvaticus means people from the woods, the term savage was originally used as a distinction from country to city

people), thus of course it makes sense that the knowledge of plants came from the woods people, the farmers, as

well as the hunter and gatherers nomadic tribes, thus many of the language terms we still use in clinic came from

translations of interviewing tribes. Tribes did not speak Latin or Greek. The keycode was merely lost in

translations.


Petra in Persia was built by nomadic tribes. Thus, nomadic tribe doesn't mean uneducated. They simply were not

going to carry heavy books everywhere when migrating in seasons. Hunters and gatherers are not uneducated.

They are wisely educated in laws of jungles and laws of nature. They have amazing knowledge. Thus, when

silvaticus don't read or write, then educational teachings from the masters to apprentice medicine men and
woman are verbal teachings. It makes perfect sense it was passed down in oral language keycodes of teachings.

Medicine had memory games for learning and a language code for treatment that was lost in translations. We still

use over 800 of these terms in our textbooks. These words are the words that 100 years later medical textbooks

and medical journals still state "aetiology is unknown" underneath the titles of headings, and no suitable

treatment without major side effects could be found in 100 years. No one can turn a circle theory into a straight

line theory. No one can replace a Latin or Greek named plant drug and continue to use the same Latin or Greek

title as a heading.




                                                                                                                         5
With the switch from Pagan beliefs to the Patriarchal Christian religious expansion in ancient Greece and Roman
empires, then by the time of Hippocrates, woman (represented symbolically by a circle) were being banned from

reading and studying. Woman as the plant gatherers, woman as scholars, and woman as the High Priestess and

medical herbalists in the temples, then woman would have known the terms they were translating were from

Materia Medica and were part of a language keycode. With the High Priestess of Delphi murdered and replaced

by the High Priest in ancient Greece, then from this day in history, woman were banned from education and

banned from Priestess titles in the early Christian movement. With the banning of woman then the ancient

systemic language keycode was simply lost in translations, as woman were forced down a dark narrow path into

2000 years of forced submission and silence.


The problems we have inherited:


Problem 1:


Merck were correct in format in the first edition. In the second edition of Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy

in 1901, the format is completely changed to be more like the format of Principles and Practices of Medicine 1892

by Dr William Osler. USA physicians attempt to translate the headings from Merck's first edition from Greek and
Latin to English. The translations are often incorrect, and the limited knowledge of physicians understanding of

Materia Medica is evident in their replacements of Latin named drugs with the newer experimental

preformulated chemical options coming prematurely to market. The replacement of the Latin named drugs shows

us in retrospect, that the physicians of America had little competency in the subject Materia Medica, Galen

Preparations of dispensing, and Latin. In fairness to the physicians of America, they would have had few Latin

textbooks or Latin teachers compared to Europe. They also would not have had any access to the original medical

corpus from Europe that were stored in monasteries such as the Vatican library. They would have only had copies

transcribed, and each of the individual transcribed copies could have individual translations errors. It is tragic but

understandable.


The notes from the Code of Ethics of the American Medical Association also help us ascertain why the Latin

named drugs were replaced. There was a significant attitude problem. A quote from 1854 states that "the public

ought likewise to entertain a just appreciation of medical qualifications; to make a proper discrimination between

true science and the assumptions of ignorance and empiricism"". The American Physicians considered anatomy

and dissections as true science. They considered botanical drugs and homeopathy as ignorance and empiricism.

The AMA even quote "Physicians ought to use all the influence which they may possess, as professors in Colleges

of Pharmacy, and by exercising their option in regard to the shops to which their prescriptions shall be sent, to

discourage druggists and apothecaries from vending quack or secret medicines, or from being in any way engaged

in their manufacture and sale".* Thus we can see why the physicians advised to change Merck's textbooks layout

that was correct in pharmacy.




                                                                                                                         6
The attitude of physicians to drugs created by Mother Nature is not new. In two quotes from the preface of
Dioscorides, (from the 2000 English edition), the attitude of physicians of the relevant historical time periods are

noted as:


"Dioscorides states that many physicians provided superficial accounts of the properties and diagnostic uses of

drugs, often confusing one plant from the other. Pliny the Elder confirms that physicians of his day knew little

about compounding medications, entrusting these matters to seplasiarii (manufacturer) who freguently provided

adulterated drugs... We learn from Fuchs that even in the sixteenth century hardly any contemporary physicians in

Germany valued accurate knowledge of medicinal plants. This information did not concern them and was beneath

their dignity- they left the study of medicinal plants to the superstitious, the foolish and old peasant woman™.


Ever since the Library of Athena, the Goddess of Wisdom, was replaced with the Father of Wisdom, the Father of

Nature, the Father of Botany, and the Father of Medicine, the attitude of physicians to Mother Nature and

botanical drugs has been completely bizarre. Science in the Enlightenment period was for the study to explain

the Forces of Nature, not for humans to try and control it, or change it, merely to try and understand thus predict

the incredible unexplained intelligent forces present in the natural world of Earth.

The "legal" control of physicians over pharmacists that Merck encountered in 1901 was a from a misinterpreted

clause in the Royal Charter of King Henry VIII in 1518, with the establishment of the Royal College of Physicians of

London. The charter gave physicians the power to "destroy a defective batch". The power was never intended for

a physician to control pharmacists, so much so that physicians change a pharmacist's textbook that was correct in

pharmacy. With hindsight we can simply shake our heads at the arrogancy of our ancestors.


Since the world abandoned the past brilliance of Merck at the turn of the 20th century for the Reductionist Theory

of 'Evidence Based Medicine' based on 'coincidental random probabilities' of P statistical results of clinical trials

comparing outcomes of patients diagnosed with a single Latin or Greek based word with a new drug or new

surgery technique against a placebo sugar pill, or else comparing mathematical statistic results from testing a
substance on a rat, then in 2021 it seems appropriate to quote a new AMA Code of Ethics that in 2021 moving

forward that "the public ought likewise to entertain a just appreciation of Materia Medica and Latin gualifications;

to make a proper discrimination between true biochemistry, ecological, botanical, physiological and

pharmacological science and the assumptions of our own inherited medical ignorance and medical arrogance".


Problem 2: Nostrums and Quackery


In 1911 the American Medical Association published a publication "Nostrums and Quackery"x". They were half

correct in the title. Quackery in 1911 meant "no advertising allowed". Nostrums means poisons. Medicine and

pharmacy inherited another disturbing tragedy. Our Materia Medica's since Dioscorides de Materia Medica (40-

90AD) were contaminated with some of the deadliest plant poisons known to man. The limited contacted current

day indigenous tribes are aware that some of the plants listed as medicine are complete poisons. The current

limited contacted tribes use the plants for hunting and war, they are adamant they are never to be taken


                                                                                                                        7
internally, yet they are listed in our Materia Medica. One plant listed as medicine is fatal with the ingestion of as
little as one seed, then death is expected within 24 hours.


Dioscorides notes in his opening dedication to Areius that he has "travelled far and wide as you know as a

soldier"™'. The Roman soldiers were known for being brutal. Thus, it is of no surprise if the silvaticus communities

not wanting Roman rule lied to Roman soldiers about plant fauna.

Dioscorides also quotes "with careful investigation- since I know many plants personally, and others from previous

writings that are generally approved of- and patiently inguiring (by guestioning the local inhabitants) about each

type of plant, I will attempt a different classification"xlv. Dioscorides did not need to offer a different classification,

if he had of written the text as a direct translation, the classification and code is simple.


The names of the plants are how to identify them in the wild, or the name of the plant is what it's used for in

medicine. Dioscorides, Pliny the Elder and many other explorers work on botany has saved a lot of the ancient

knowledge from our indigenous tribes of 2000 years ago for future research, it just needs to be audited by

chemists to determine if medicine or poison. There are thousands and thousands of plants recorded when

indigenous still had their original non-western influenced knowledge. The uploading onto the archives of the
original ancient publications creates a large new direction for research.


Although it's frightening as to how many poisons are listed as medicines, then if our ancestor and current

practitioners had the art of medicine (articus means skill), and the science of medicine (sci means knowledge, scio

=1 know) then the inclusion of poisons in Materia Medica is only a theoretical concern. Skilled practitioners in

clinics would have only experimented once or twice to know the difference between medicine or poison.


The more recent contaminations of recent Materia Medica can be explained by the British Medical Association

1832, and the American Medical Association 1847 founding documents clauses as follows:


BMA in 1832: "increase of knowledge of the medical topography of England, through statistical, meteorological,

geological, and botanical enquires"7".


AMA in 1847: "investigate the Indigenous Medical Botany of our country; paying particular attention to such

plants as are now, or may be here after during the term of their service, found to possess valuable medicinal

properties, and are not already accurately described in the standard works of our country and report the same in

writing, giving not only the Botanical and Medical description of each, but also the localities where they may be

found, to the next annual meetings of the American Medical Association"™.


The British and American Pharmacopeia's are plagued with poisons. The history of the British Empire is not known

for only bringing peace and rainbows. Merck and Co's Materia Medica is contaminated with poisons from

America from the Native American Indians. Britain's Pharmacopeia's are contaminated by Aboriginals, Africans,
Indians, Americans Indians, Islanders. It is a constant theme. Spanish, French, Portuguese, Dutch, all




                                                                                                                          8
contaminated. German Merck Index 1889 is contaminated due to the German occupation of Namibia in the
Scramble for Africa.


It appears that the consequences of war and colonisation of past empires means the tribes in revenge told us

poisons, thus we have been unintentionally poisoning ourselves for millenniums. These poisons are still listed in

herbal medical fields in texts of Culpepper, and numerous current herbal writers. Again, a theoretical concern. A

skilled practitioner would immediately recognise the textbook recommendations did not yield the clinical result.

(Practitioners graduating in Naturopathy and Western Herbal Medicine must complete an education upgrade too).

It is not wise to poison our patients, our family members and ourselves, whilst also charging ourselves the bill of

poisons in the cost of our own medical expenses. Health expense is the number one quoted cause of bankruptcy

in America. The west managed to bankrupt ourselves via the costs of government funded taxpayers Department

of Health expenses that spiralled out of control. More funding for Lupus (wolf). More funding for Cancer (crab).

Merck's 1899 textbook states "Volatile Mustard of Oil"xv". This is like saying "Cannabis Oil". The original first

editions did not mention volatile mustard gas, the chemical weapon used in the gas chamber that smelt of

mustard. This is only one example of a translation and misinterpretation error. A State of Emergency is absolute.


The west took out the natives, then the natives vengeance took out the west. Very few whom understand the

reality of western history are surprised by the act of Karma, but it must END.


In 2021 as a world community, we must all agree our behaviour has been abhorrent and the consequences of

war, blame and revenge must cease. We need peace to heal our bodies and our hearts and our Earth.


The auditing of the language translation errors and the auditing process of removing the botanical poisons and

adding back the botanical medicines is complete for first edition. It is set up in a format that allows for future

auditing. One cannot remove all the Latin named medicines that matched the Latin titles in the 20th century

without consequences.


Botanical plant medicines have very few side effects. Botanical poisons will make you sick and kill you. Poisons

are poisons. Botanical medicines will heal (salve). Medicines are medicines.


All fields of medicine all broke the bylaws of the Medical Act of 1858 that were set up to protect both

practitioners and patients and Governments.


Recommending an urgent education update for all medical practitioners in English speaking countries for the

completion of two subjects:


    •       Materia Medica Merck Manual 2020, compiled by Stacey Butterfield

    •   Latin/Greek Medical Etymology Language Course: Systemic Theory of Medicine and the 444 Botanical

        Systemic Keycode of Treatment, compiled by Stacey Butterfield




                                                                                                                      9
The education upgrade is in compliance with the bylaws of all medical associations registered in the
Commonwealth Medical Act of 1858, that state that Drs in English speaking nations must be competent in Latin,

and practitioners must study Materia Medica. The Medical Act of 1858 also established the Pharmacopeia. The

law implies Drs in public system must prescribe from Pharmacopeia's. Private health could use experimental

medicine if a patient fully consented and if the bills were fully funded by patient and private hospital. No tax

payer funding. Your body, your choice, but experimental medicine had no guarantees. Medicine proven as safe

and effective is public health. Experimental medicine is private health systems.


When practitioners complete the language training, then they will understand why there was a major reason that

competency in language was listed higher than any science subject for the legal requirement to be registered as a

practitioner in medicine. This information still needs to remain under a confidential and protected status until the
training update of practitioners can be completed.



' Osler, W. Principles and Practices of Medicine, Appleton and Company, New York, 1892. Online:
https://archive.org/details/principlespractiOOosle 3
" Merck, G. Merck Manual of the Materia Medica 1901, Merck and Co, New York, 1901, online:
https://archive.org/details/mercksl901manual00merc/page/n3/mode/2up
111 Glover, R. The New Medical Act, Henry Renshaw Publishers, London, 1858, online: https://archive.org/details/b22319372
lv Merck, G. Merck's Manual of the Materia Medica 1899, Merck and Co, New York, 1899, online:
https://archive.org/details/mercksmanualofmaOOnewy
v Edmunds. Bye-Laws and Ordinances of the Royal College of Surgeons, R & J Taylor, London 1844, pages 2 & 3,
https://archive.org/details/b30362647
vi Australia Department of Health, 10 Aug 2021, online https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-alerts/novel-coronavirus-
2019-ncov-health-alert/coronavirus-covid-19-case-numbers-and-statistics
v"Merck, G. Merck's Manual of the Materia Medica 1899, Merck and Co, New York, 1899, page 7, online:
https://archive.org/details/mercksmanualofmaOOnewy,
vl"Christensen, J. Pisistratus, the First Librarian: Gellius on Libraries Built, Pillaged and Burned. Brandeis University, 2016,
online: https://sententiaeantiquae.com/2016/02/01/pisistratus-the-first-librarian-gellius-on-libraries-built-pillaged-and-
burned/
ix American Medical Association, Code of Ethics, Philadelphia, T.K and P.G Collins, 1854, page 24, online:
https://archive.org/details/63310430R.nlm.nih.gov
x American Medial Association, Code of Ethics, Philadelphia, T.K and P.G Collins, 1854, page 23, online:
https://archive.org/details/63310430R.nlm.nih.gov
Xl Dioscorides, ed Osbaldeston, A. de Materia Medica, I Bl DIS press, 2000, page xxxiii, online: https://archive.org/details/de-
       teria nedic
xii Cramp, A. Nostrums and Quackery, American Medical Association Press, Chicago, 1911, online:
https://archive.org/details/nostrumsquackery00amerrich/page/n3/mode/2up
xiiiDioscorides, ed Osbaldeston, A. de Materia Medica, I Bl DIS press, 2000, page x, https://archive.org/details/de-materia-
    iei :a
XIV Dioscorides, ed Osbaldeston, A. de Materia Medica, IBIDIS press, 2000, page x, https://archive.org/details/de-materia-
rr
xv Hastings, C. An account of the first meeting of the provincial surgical association, British Medical Association Founding
Documents, Printed by H.B. Tymbs and H. Deighton, Worcestershire, 1832, page 10, online:
https://archive.org/details/b22435098
xvi Proceedings of the National Medical Conventions, held in New York, May, 1846, and in Philadelphia, May, 1847, American
Medical Association, Philadelphia, 1847, online: https://archive.org/details/b22376446/page/nl/mode/2up
xv" Merck, G. Merck's Manual of the Materia Medica 1899, Merck and Co, New York, 1899, page 53, online:
https://archive.org/details/mercksmanualofmaOOnewy




                                                                                                                               10
