National Mental Health Commission
December 2023




Submission to the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




         Australian Government
         National Mental Health Commission
Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-
19 Response Inquiry
About the National Mental Health Commission
The National Mental Health Commission (the Commission) provides cross-sectoral leadership on policy, programs,
services, and systems (including education, housing, employment, human services, and social support), to support better
mental health and social and emotional wellbeing in Australia. There are three main strands to the Commission’s work:
monitoring and reporting on Australia’s mental health and suicide prevention system; providing expert, evidence-based
policy advice to Government and the community; and engaging consumers and carers.

About the National Suicide Prevention Office
The National Suicide Prevention Office (the NSPO) was established within the Commission in 2021-22 in response to
recommendations in the National Suicide Prevention Adviser Final Advice and the Productivity Commission inquiry into
mental health and suicide prevention. The NSPO is a critical national driver of the work towards zero suicides by
ensuring a whole-of-government approach that is informed by lived experience and creates opportunities to respond
early and effectively to distress. The NSPO ensures the coordination of whole-of-government capability to deliver a
national approach to reducing suicide rates in Australia. It is a significant step towards ensuring a more preventative,
compassionate and person-centred mental health and suicide prevention system.

Introduction
The Commission and the NSPO welcome the opportunity to participate in the Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) to inform recommendations that aim to improve Australia’s preparedness for future
pandemics. Throughout the pandemic, the Commission provided mental health and suicide prevention related advice to
the Commonwealth Government. The Commission, alongside the Commonwealth Government Department of Health
and Aged Care, played a key role in providing accessible online briefings to the sector, including jurisdictions, on the
impacts of the pandemic on mental health and suicidality and the Australian Government’s response.


The COVID-19 pandemic posed significant health, lifestyle and economic challenges for Australians and evidence has
demonstrated significant negative mental health impacts as a result. Australia’s mental health sector has been agile in
responding to the increasing support needs of Australians with new opportunities including the expansion of digital
services and telehealth as well as innovative community-based models of care. However, there are a number of
areas that require additional consideration and/or prioritisation to improve the impacts on mental health and wellbeing in
the event of future pandemics, as further outlined in this submission.


The Commission’s submission has been structured around responding to relevant Inquiry terms of reference as they
relate to mental health and wellbeing. It draws heavily on insights from mental health research funded by the
Commission throughout the pandemic period. In June 2021, the Commission funded ten organisations to each undertake
Pandemic Research Projects (research projects), with the intention of better understanding the unique impact of the
pandemic on key priority populations. Findings from these research projects are drawn on throughout this submission in
responding to a number of the Inquiry’s terms of reference.


The ten priority population groups that were the focus of these research projects were:

  People experiencing compound disaster trauma (such as those who had experienced flooding or bushfires prior to the
  pandemic)
  Men aged over 18 years
  Women with a disability aged over 18 years
  Children and young people aged 9-17 years




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                            2
  People living in rural and remote communities
  People aged over 75 years
  People with lived experiences of sexual, domestic and family violence
  People who are LGBTQ+
  People from Italian, Turkish and Vietnamese communities
  Adult carers of those who experience mental illness, mental ill-health, and suicidality.

A summary report of the research projects is at Attachment A. Information regarding each research project’s
methodology is in Appendix A. The recommendations made by each of the researchers are in Appendix B.

The submission also draws on insights from a research project the Commission funded the University of Newcastle and
University of Queensland to undertake in March 2021, using data from the Australian Longitudinal Study on Women’s
Health. A summary of this women’s mental health in the context of COVID-19 study is in Appendix C.

Should you wish to discuss this submission in further detail, please contact                 Executive Director,




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                     3
Responding to the Inquiry terms of reference
National governance mechanisms
 Development of the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan
The National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan was developed early in 2020 in response to
growing awareness of an increased need for an expanded and coordinated mental health response to address the
 impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on all Australians. The Plan was developed under the co-leadership of the
Commission, the Victorian Government and the New South Wales Government agencies, and was informed by all eight
jurisdictions and key sector stakeholders. National Cabinet endorsed the Plan on 15 May 2020, with the Commonwealth
Government committing $48.1 million to support the Plan.1 State and territory governments also committed funding in
alignment with the Plan.

The Plan recognised that some populations within the Australian community would be disproportionately affected by the
impact of social and economic outcomes of the pandemic and provided a range of measures to address associated
challenges. The Plan called for a whole of government approach that would build on momentum and innovation
occurring at the time and address critical gaps. All jurisdictions were called on to continue their current commitments and
accelerate change to include the Plan actions, tailored to meet the needs of their specific communities. Implementation
of the Plan actions sat with the jurisdictions, with National Cabinet and the Mental Health Principal Committee identified
as having responsibility for oversight of the Plan.

The rapid development of the Plan demonstrates that when there is an impetus, collaborative processes across the
sector, jurisdictions and Commonwealth Government can be stood up. The primary success of the Plan was that it
obtained ‘in principle’ agreement across governments that mental health and wellbeing was a key area of need.
Evaluation of initial and subsequent implementation of the Plan is now warranted to make a further assessment around
its effectiveness.

Key health response measures
Health communication and information provision
In the early days of the pandemic Government communications focused on encouraging widespread uptake of a range
of preventative behaviours, including physical distancing and focussed on ‘flattening the curve’. Recognising the possible
adverse impacts of the pandemic on mental health and wellbeing, in November 2020, the Commonwealth Department of
Health and Aged Care rolled out a COVID-19 mental health campaign ‘How’s your head today?’ to urge people to
prioritise their mental health, raise awareness about how to identify when something is wrong, and encourage people to
seek help.

Findings from the research projects suggests that communication and information provision about the COVID-19 disease
itself and the associated public health restrictions were not tailored to specific audiences leading to confusion,
uncertainty, heightened distress and anxiety for certain populations. The research projects specifically demonstrated this
for older Australians, culturally and linguistically diverse communities (specifically Italian, Turkish and Vietnamese
communities), women with disability, and rural and remote communities. However, this does not mean that these were
the only communities impacted.

For older Australians there was a clear desire for more consistent information about lockdowns, how to stay safe, and
self-care during the pandemic, and for these messages to be communicated over a range of different formats (including
online, television, radio and print). Older Australians expressed a distinct preference for information to be provided to
them by governments, especially health departments and their medical spokespeople. Links to health department
sources, local focus and trend data, and regularity of updates provided confidence in information and understanding of
restrictions or other requirements. The ABC was most often mentioned as the most trusted media source of information.2




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                         4
Some older Australians from culturally and linguistically diverse communities relied on information from their country of
origin for advice, which meant they were at greater risk of being exposed to information that did not align with the
situation in Australia and may have included inaccuracies about the virus and the vaccines, and this exacerbated
anxiety, fear and distress. This fear was compounded by the lack of accessible information in Australia. Information was
also sourced from community leaders, family members and non-government organisations that mobilised to provide
information in-language.3

Similarly, the research into Italian, Turkish and Vietnamese communities found that few participants had been exposed
to mental health communications throughout the pandemic period, although younger participants were more likely to
recall having seen advertising for support services like Beyond Blue, Lifeline and others. There was also little recollection
of government resources such as the Head to Health website.4

Research into women with disability found that this group felt abandoned by Commonwealth and state and territory
governments during the COVID-19 pandemic, in terms of health messaging. Getting accurate and accessible health
information was perceived to be extremely difficult, with messaging constantly changing, not being consistently
accessible and not prioritising people with disability despite being at greater risk from the virus than the general
population. The lack of Auslan interpreters at some major press conferences was noted, as well as the lack of
understanding of the extra precautions people with disability need to take to be safe from COVID-19. However, working
from home resulted in women with disability being able to start work or increase their work hours. This resulted in
increased productivity, financial security, and improved emotional wellbeing.5

Research into people living in rural and remote communities also highlighted the need for communication to be delivered
across digital and traditional media to meet the needs of different audiences. More than half of the rural and remote
residents interviewed reported problems with digital connection, including problems with unreliable connections or the
affordability of high-quality connection.6

Digital and telehealth
COVID-19 led to substantial changes in the delivery of health and mental health services, most notably an expansion
and increase in use of telehealth (services via telephone or videoconferencing) and digital health services. The
Commonwealth Government’s announcement of new MBS telehealth items to help reduce the risk of community
transmission of COVID-19, and provide protection for patients and healthcare providers, was welcomed by the mental
health sector.

Findings from the research projects and additional commissioned research suggest that digital and telehealth options
were largely welcomed during the pandemic and encouraged increased access to healthcare (including mental health
care) through reduced cost and time associated with attending appointments.

Experiences and uptake of digital and telehealth service provisions were raised across several research projects. Key
findings included:

  uptake of telehealth was particularly high in the LGBTQ+ community, with positive experiences accessing mental
  health care via telehealth reported during the period November 2021 to February 2022:
         o 90.9% of participants who had used mental health care services during the pandemic accessed at least
              some of this care via telehealth.
         o approximately three-quarters (76.6%) felt that telehealth had made mental health care appointments more
              accessible, more than half (58.5%) felt comfortable accessing mental health care in this way, and 31.2%
              felt safer accessing mental health care via telehealth.7
  telehealth resulted in more accessible healthcare than before the pandemic for women with disability:
         o being able to access regular General Practitioners (GPs) as well as specialist services via telehealth had
              seen improved health outcomes for some women with disability.
         o however, fear and anxiety of going in-person to hospitals or doctors’ offices, meant that necessary in­
              person check-ups were missed.8




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                           5
  in early 2022, children expressed a strong preference for in-person support if they felt they needed help (e.g. felt down,
  scared or worried) rather than telehealth options when it was available.9
  during the period May 2022 to June 2022, mental health carers reported that the people they supported, preferred to
  engage with services face-to-face and the move to telehealth at times led to disengagement from mental health
  services. There were some population groups (such as those with a psychotic disorder) for whom telehealth was not
  necessarily appropriate and a range of engagement options needed to be made available.10

In March 2021, the Commission funded the University of Newcastle and University of Queensland to undertake research
using data from the Australian Longitudinal Study on Women’s Health (women’s mental health in the context of COVID-
19 study). This research was separate to the then priority population research projects. It found that many women who
had used telehealth or similar remote health services described the benefits of these services, with some reporting
enhanced access to services due to the convenience of appointments via phone or online. However, some women found
telehealth to be ineffective and inappropriate for their health condition. Others avoided care when there was not a face-to
face option.

Indirect impacts of lockdowns and associated public health restrictions
A number of indirect impacts of lockdowns and associated public health restrictions on mental health and wellbeing were
noted across the research projects. Some of these included:

  lack of social engagement and contact with extended family and friends as a key concern for children, many also
  struggled with remote learning.11
  restrictions were challenging for multicultural communities who rely strongly on their social and familial networks for
  support in tough times, for many lockdowns presented a dramatic change in lifestyle.12
  physical isolation removed opportunities for LGBTQ+ people to express and explore their identities safely, and for
  many, meant separation from their chosen family.13
  changes to typical post-disaster recovery processes including the impacts of social distancing increasing experiences
  of isolation from friends, family, and community, and the uncertain nature of the pandemic and the social, emotional,
  and economic consequences of sudden lockdowns increasing experiences of anxiety and disconnection.14
  domestic violence rates and rates of mental ill-health increased significantly among women with disability, with
  isolation caused by lockdowns being a considerable factor.15

The women’s mental health in the context of COVID-19 study found that fora proportion of women, the pandemic
created situations where they were vulnerable to abuse and violence from family, intimate partners and the general
public, in places where they live, work and learn. This was particularly true for women with a history of experiencing
violence, and essential workers.

Impact on deaths by suicide
Despite increased psychological distress and adverse economic outcomes, rates of death by suicide in Australia did not
increase during the pandemic. National mortality data published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) shows the
rate of death by suicide in Australia was lower in 2020 (12.5 per 100,000 population) and 2021 (12.3) than in
2019 (13.3), and is in line with 2022 data (12.5).16

In 2020, 3.2% of these deaths had the pandemic mentioned in either a police or pathology report or a coronial finding. In
2021, the percentage of suicide deaths where the pandemic was mentioned decreased to 2.6%. The pandemic was not
identified as an isolated risk factor in any suicide deaths, with an average of 6.5 risk factors and 3.5 psychosocial risk
factors present for people who died by suicide where the pandemic was identified as a risk factor.17

While the reasons for this trend are complex, possible protective factors could include:

  a general sense of ‘we are all in this together’18
  rises in the level of trust in others and in governments in Australia19




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                            6
  the impact of both JobKeeper and the JobSeeker supplement, which saw housing stress and poverty decrease to
  lower levels than prior to the spread of COVID-19.20 These payments also saw real incomes rise for those in the
  bottom decile of the income distribution from February to August 2020.21

It should also be noted that the impact of the pandemic was unevenly distributed across populations, as demonstrated by
an increase in suicide in young men at this time.22

Supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns
Findings across the research projects indicated that all populations studied experienced worsened mental health and
wellbeing, and increased isolation and social disconnection, than prior to the pandemic. While the pandemic did not
necessarily create new issues for each group, it intensified pre-existing inequities. Key issues relating to mental health
and wellbeing supports during the COVID-19 pandemic are discussed below.

Mental health awareness
The Commission led the development of several mental health awareness campaigns during the pandemic, including
#lnThisTogether, #GettingThroughThisTogether and #ChatStarter. #lnThisTogether (launched March 2020) and
#GettinqThrouqhThisToqether (launched August 2020) were developed in partnership with leading mental health
organisations, experts and spokespeople to encourage a national online conversation sharing evidence-based practical
tips to support the mental health and wellbeing of Australians during COVID-19. Organisations included Beyond Blue,
Lifeline, Reachout, headspace, RUOK?, Orygen, the Black Dog Institute, SANE Australia, the Brain and Mind Centre,
Apunipima Cape York Health Council, Smiling Mind and the Commonwealth Government Department of Health (now
Department of Health and Aged Care).

These campaigns called on the community to support one another in navigating the mental health, wellbeing, and social
impacts of the pandemic and promoted the equal priority that our mental health and wellbeing should be given alongside
medical and physical health needs during the pandemic. These are important messages to be communicated in times of
crises. It is difficult to ascertain the effectiveness of such campaigns as mental health supports, however across
campaigns total exposure included almost 2,000 social media posts, almost 100 news items (online and print) and 260
broadcast items (radio and television).

In August 2021, the Commission launched the #ChatStarter campaign to support young people and parents to start
conversations about mental health challenges with people they care about. #ChatStarter was developed and promoted
through a partnership between the Commission and Australia’s national mental health organisations who specialise in
supporting children, young people and parents including batyr, Beyond Blue, Butterfly Foundation, headspace, Kids
Helpline, Orygen, and ReachOut. This was in response to evidence of increasing impacts of the pandemic on the mental
health of children and young people. It provided a single point of access to free, evidence-based resources already
developed by the mental health sector and encouraged people to use the tips and resources freely available on the
Commonwealth Department of Health and Aged Care’s Head to Health website.

#ChatStarter was a collaborative approach to community mental health support, developed by the mental health sector
and supported and delivered through the support of social networking platforms. It provides an example of ways to
include carers, family and friends, which is a key priority for reform. The campaign also demonstrated that governments
can work in partnership with business and the sector to promote Australia’s mental health outcomes.

Across social media platforms #ChatStarter messaging reached an estimated audience of more than 10,868,000 people,
which resulted in more than 40,000 people viewing the resources on the Head to Health #ChatStarter page. The
campaign had a total of 194 individual media mentions across radio, tv, online and print.

Despite the prevalence of mental health and wellbeing related public campaigns a lack of awareness about mental
health and mental health services was identified in the research projects for some groups, particularly older Australians.
GPs were the preferred initial contact for many older Australians when needing care or support for their mental health.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                            7
However, most people were unaware of other mental health support services for older Australians; others found them
inaccessible (due to cost and location) or too difficult to access when they moved online or that they demonstrated a
limited understanding of the impacts of ageing and mental health.23

Children, parents/guardians and grandparents thought there should be greater awareness and understanding of mental
health in the community. Some children reflecting on the pandemic said they hoped it had increased awareness of
mental health, would make it easier to speak about, and seek help when needed. Around a third of children and over half
of parents/guardians and grandparents also felt that schools should offer more support for children’s mental health and
wellbeing. Both children, and parents/guardians and grandparents asked for support for mental health and wellbeing to
be built into daily activities and programs at schools rather than just having stand-alone sessions.24

Additional barriers to accessing services
The research projects have highlighted a number of additional barriers to accessing healthcare services experienced by
priority populations, including financial and workforce barriers.

For LGBTQ+ people the most frequently identified barrier to accessing mental health care during the pandemic was the
cost of services, followed by lack of availability of their preferred service, and stay-at-home orders.25 The research on
men also noted that accessing help was difficult for those who were unable to afford care through private practitioners.26

Difficulties accessing services and supports due to the limited availability of professional help (particularly trauma-
informed services) in rural areas was highlighted for those communities experiencing compound disasters, noting
however this was a pre-existing issue exacerbated by the pandemic. The high demand for mental health services was
described as resulting in long waitlists and having negative knock-on effects for the service provision workforce.27 This
was also highlighted for domestic violence frontline workers.28

Additional difficulties included having to recount experiences many times across disconnected services, struggles to
access inflexible support schemes, challenges in relation to housing shortages and COVID-related obstacles to re­
building.29

Limited additional support for mental health carers
The research project on mental health carers found the COVID-19 pandemic increased the level and complexity of
support provided by mental health family carers. The closure and restrictions on services led to family, carers and
supporters needing to provide extra hours and at times constant support, including maintaining the safety of the
consumer through monitoring both emotional and physical needs. It was thought that pandemic responses assumed that
family members would, without financial, practical or emotional resources, fulfil the role of care provision and support to
unwell and extremely distressed people with new or ongoing mental and psychological ill health.30

Family carers reported there were repeated if not routine breaches of family carer rights to access treatment and support
for themselves and their unwell family members during the COVID-19 pandemic and access was worse than usual.
Families felt invisible and broken during the COVID-19 pandemic by the deepening of existing exclusion from clinical
care planning. The value of a sense of connection was highlighted and emphasised as a preferred way to be treated.31

Service adaptations
The research project on rural and remote communities identified a range of ways that services and organisations
proactively adapted to meet needs including:

  home visits for the most severe mental health needs
  adaptation of in-patient clinics to the home setting, with hybrid telehealth support
  enhanced access to expert triage and assessment in community to avoid unnecessary hospitalisations
  mobile delivery and outreach of mental health services to remote areas
  clinicians enabled to work from home in lockdown via telehealth with secure platforms and agreed work processes
  telehealth delivery of specialist, psychological/allied health and primary care services, with MBS enabled funding




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                            8
  funding for extra mental health support for health workers
  service collaboration among public and private clinics
  expanding and increasing promotion of online and e-clinic services, and/or making them free to the end user, to enable
  greater access.32

Support for industry and businesses
The Commission, in partnership with the Mentally Healthy Workplace Alliance, created a series of evidence-based, easy
to use guides to support workplaces to respond to someone who may need support through the pandemic. The guides
were created by experts and provided practical tips to support employers and employees to recognise the signs of
mental ill-health and have safe and supported conversations about it in the workplace. The Commission recognised the
different needs across workplaces and created tailored guides for:

  sole traders
  small business
  medium to large business.

In 2022, the Commission and the Mentally Healthy Workplace Alliance developed guides to complement the existing
resources released in 2020. These focused on emerging issues, leaning on expert insights to provide practical actions
that workplaces could take immediately. The series included:

  Helping people return to workplaces after extended periods working at home during COVID-19
  Strategies to support wellbeing of decision makers through periods of sustained pressure
  Identifying and managing fatigue and burnout during COVID-19
  The hidden impact of COVID-19 and sleep
  Creating mentally healthy hybrid teams in the recovery from COVID-19
  Responding to varied COVID-19 concerns in the workplace
  Supporting people experiencing post-COVID-19 syndrome
  Mental Health Supports

To support the engagement needs of smaller businesses and teams, a summary tailored to Small Business Owners and
managers was created in collaboration with the Council of Small Business Organisations Australia.

Since they were made available on the Mentally Healthy Workplaces digital platform in January 2023, the guides have
been interacted with over 1,400 times. The guidance also received endorsement from business representatives (for
example, Business Council of Australia, Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry) and the Australian Congress of
Trade Unions, who all shared the guides widely with their members.

Financial support for individuals
Across the research projects those with relative financial security (amongst other factors) consistently fared better during
the pandemic in terms of impacts on mental health and wellbeing. In addition to these findings, the women’s mental
health in the context of COVID-19 study found that relative to women who were not stressed about finances, women who
reported being very or extremely stressed about money in April 2020 were more than twice (women aged 25-31) or four
times (women aged 42-47) likely to report psychological distress in October 2020. Women across all age groups who
reported being somewhat or moderately stressed about money in April 2020 were at significantly increased risk of
psychological distress in October 2020.

Financial assistance schemes such as JobKeeper and JobSeeker were found to be valuable during this period, in
particular the research project on men noted that these schemes sustained people through job losses or transitions and
minimised further distress.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                          9
Community supports
Social connection and community engagement
The COVID-19 pandemic had major impacts on the nature and opportunities for social connection and community
engagement. Communities typically come together in the process of moving towards recovery, and this was not initially
possible during the pandemic.

The research into communities experiencing compound disasters highlighted how COVID-19 disrupted communities’
capacity to draw upon resources to collaboratively address hardship and adversity and move towards recovery. Tension
and division was also attributed to contrasting attitudes regarding vaccinations, difficulties re-connecting with social
groups following pandemic restrictions, and a broader sense alienation from other communities that had cases of
COVID-19 or were the perceived reason for pandemic restrictions (for example, when regions were placed in lockdown
due to cases travelling from Metropolitan areas).33

Across research projects, typically people with stronger social connections and housing and financial security fared
better during the pandemic.

Impacts on people experiencing family, domestic and sexual violence
Research highlighted a number of impacts on community supports specifically for people with lived experience of family,
domestic and sexual violence including:

  reduced access to support services to maintain quality of life and continue therapeutic treatment
  severe isolation from friends, family and community groups, which created further barriers to obtaining support and
  social connection
  increased case complexity requiring multidisciplinary, integrated support across the health, social service, community,
  police, child safety and justice sectors
  escalating violence for victim-survivors unable to escape the perpetrator nor safely seek support at home.34

Future responses
Valuable insights have been gained into the experiences of a number of priority populations during the pandemic through
the research projects which the Commission funded. Each research project produced a final report discussing how their
cohort had been impacted by the pandemic, as well as recommendations for next steps in addressing these impacts. A
list of the researchers’ recommendations for future responses have been collated and included at Appendix B. The
inquiry may wish to give consideration to whether future pandemic and crisis responses should integrate these, or
similar, insights and recommendations to better meet the needs of population groups.

In addition to these recommendations, the women’s mental health in the context of COVID-19 study also highlighted a
number of priority action areas based on their findings that the inquiry may wish to consider to support better targeted
future responses to the mental health and wellbeing needs of women. These are summarised at Appendix C.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                          10
Appendix A - Summary of Pandemic research projects methodology

         Priority    Research project    Overview of study methodology            Participant information
     population        organisation


 People             Phoenix Australia   Literature review. Targeted           •            18 semi-structured interviews
 experiencing                           interviews and focus groups               via telephone in April 2022.
 compound                               across regional NSW, Victoria, SA     •            5 online focus groups via
 disaster trauma                        in regions heavily impacted by            videoconferencing between
                                        recent disasters.                         April and May 2022 with 31
                                                                                  participants.
 Men aged over 18   Australian Men’s    Online survey and interviews with     •   Online survey: 137 participants
 years              Health Forum        men.                                      (136 men, 1 non-binary; 21 - 88
                                        Interviews with practitioners             years, mean age = 56.67 years).
                                        working with men.                         Majority of participants resided
                                                                                  in NSW (41%).
                                                                              •   Online interviews: 9 men, aged
                                                                                  21 - 82 years (mean age = 41
                                                                                  years)
 Women with a       People with         Literature review, online survey,     •   Online survey with 112
 disability aged    Disability          one-on-one interviews.                    participants.
 over 18 years      Australia           Participants identified as women      •   Thirteen one-on-one interviews
                                        with a disability. All interviews         were conducted either online or
                                        online which did pose accessibility       via phone.
                                        barriers.
 Children and       Australian Human    Literature review. Interviews with    •   Surveys promoted in early 2022,
 young people       Rights              stakeholders with experience in           responses from 4,559 children;
 (9-17 years)       Commission          child/young people’s mental               2,796 caregivers. 884 surveys
                                        health. Online survey for children        completed on behalf of child.
                                        and caregivers. Stakeholder           •   The majority of respondents
                                        roundtables.                              from NSW and Victoria. Data
                                                                                  aggregated on the basis of
                                                                                  gender and cultural identity.
 People living in   Centre for Rural    Literature review. Live data review   •            24 online resident interviews in
 rural and remote   and Remote          - published records of service            March-April 2022, sampled from
 communities        Mental Health       usage, morbidity or other                 all states and NT with a spread
                                        trends. Interviews with                   of ages and slightly more
                                        residents/users, interviews with          females.
                                        service providers and key             •            25 key informant interviews in
                                        community informants.                     April-May 2022. Some in small
                                                                                  groups. Sample from NSW,
                                                                                  Victoria, Queensland and WA.
 People aged over   Council on the      Codesign through a project panel      •   The survey ran from Jan-Feb
 75 years           Ageing Australia    of older people. Semi-structured          2022 and received 1,119
                                        interviews, focus groups, online          responses, and 27 submissions.
                                        survey, telephone interviews,         •   There were 15 one-on-one
                                        written submissions.                      interviews and five focus groups
                                                                                  were held with a total of 32
                                                                                  participants.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                             11
                                                                                   •   Over a third of respondents were
                                                                                       from NSW, followed by Victoria
                                                                                       and SA.
 People with lived      Full Stop            Literature review. Analysis of        •          69 survey respondents, 86%
 experience of          Australia            internal quantitative client              identified as woman/female,
 sexual, domestic                            data. Online client survey and            82% were aged 25-54 years, 64%
 and family                                  interviews with Full Stop Australia       identified as
 violence                                    trauma specialist counsellors.            straight/heterosexual (64%),
                                                                                       with 22% identifying as bisexual,
                                                                                       gay or lesbian.
                                                                                   •   In early 2022,13 in-depth, semi­
                                                                                       structured interviews with Full
                                                                                       Stop staff.
 LGBTQ+                 LGBTIQ+ Health       A cross-sectional nation-wide         •          3,135 participants completed
 communities            Australia and La     survey of LGBTIQ+ people’s                the survey, majority from
                        Trobe University     experience. A qualitative study           Victoria and NSW.
                                             involving a series of focus group     •          23 participants in focus groups;
                                             discussions with particular               18-64 years, 11 identified as
                                             intersections of the LGBTIQ+              multicultural and 17 indicated
                                             community.                                they had a disability or were
                                                                                       unsure about whether they had
                                                                                       one.
 People from            Mental Health        Community Leader consultation -       •          12 Stakeholder organisation
 Italian, Turkish       Australia: Embrace   interviews and an online forum            interviews, community leader’s
 and Vietnamese         Project              Community member engagement               forum, 6 discussion groups
 Communities                                 - focus groups and in-depth               (male and female groups in
                                             interviews                                each language).
                                                                                   •          12 in-depth interviews, including
                                                                                       with those 55+ years with
                                                                                       bilingual research assistants
 Adult carers of        Monash University    Establishment of Project Steering     •   Seven online focus groups in
 those who              and the National     Group to support a co-design              April 2022 across QLD, NSW,
 experience mental      Mental Health        process                                   ACT, Victoria, SA, WA and
 illness, mental ill-   Consumer & Carer     Literature Review, Survey, Focus          through the National forum for
 health, and            Forum (NMHCCF)       Groups                                    Embrace multicultural mental
 suicidality                                 Data Analysis                             health.
                                                                                   •          73 focus group participants,
                                                                                       aged 21 -80 years (mean age 56
                                                                                       years) and majority identifying
                                                                                       as female.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                 12
           Appendix B - Summary of recommendations made by the researchers that undertook the ten Pandemic research
           projects



 Research project citation     Priority population                                                           Recommendations

Cowlishaw S, O'Dwyer C,       People experiencing    1.   There is need for long-term and integrated approaches to resourcing and governing pandemic and disaster resilience and
Bowd C, Sadler N,             compound disaster           recovery processes. Mechanisms to meet this need may include:
O'Donnell M, Forbes D, &      trauma                           a. Establishing a collaborative National Institute with a specific focus on mental health, wellbeing, and recovery in the
Howard A. (Accepted, Dec                                            context of disasters and large-scale emergencies.
                                                               b. Extending funding for current disaster and COVID-19 initiatives targeting mental health and wellbeing in order to
2023) Pandemic impacts
                                                                    address impacts of the pandemic on the duration of disaster recovery processes.
and experiences after                                2.   There is need for integrated systems for providing and accessing pandemic and disaster-related emergency and recovery
disaster in Australia: A                                  support (including financial assistance) that are streamlined, trauma informed, and adopts an 'all hazards' approach. This may
qualitative study following                               involve:
the Black Summer                                               a. Equipping all agencies and organisations involved in the large-scale emergency response and recovery to become
                                                                    trauma-informed at both organisational and individual levels.
Bushfires. BJ Psych Open
                                                               b. Identifying and expanding successful (local) approaches to coordinating mental health and wellbeing support for
[unpublished]                                                       large-scale emergencies.
                                                     3.   There is need for targeted initiatives to build community connection and social capital, which should be identified via regular
                                                          programs of funding locally developed pilot strategies that focus on facilitating community engagement and collecting
                                                          evidence that can support the potential scale up of promising practices.
                                                     4.   There is a need for multi-component strategies for developing and maintaining a regional workforce that is resourced to
                                                          continue providing mental health support in communities have been impacted by disasters and the pandemic. These may
                                                          include:
                                                               a. Enhanced support for the existing local workforce through initiatives aimed at distributing demand and reducing
                                                                    burnout.
                                                               b. Strategic approaches to expanding the workforce available to provide mental health and wellbeing support in local
                                                                    communities.
                                                     5.   There is a need for strategies to increase provision of mental health support in response to complex posttraumatic mental
                                                          health problems, and also enhance the integration and pathways across different types of services. This may involve:
                                                               a. The design and commissioning of new specialist services for posttraumatic mental health which align with initiatives
                                                                    that have been progressed recently in some Australian jurisdictions.
                                                               b. The design and piloting of targeted programs for enhancing pathways across services which draw from lessons
                                                               learned in broader health service contexts.

Hall N, Thespourinthone J,    Men aged over 18       1.   Workplaces: Within workplaces there was a noticeable gap in employee support, identifying a need for all workplaces to have
Bailey S. Men's lived         years                       wellbeing programs that support the mental health of workers and equally provide strategies for self-care management and
experiences of mental                                     adapting to a home work environment. Employers should also establish foundations for creating a healthy workplace culture
health during COVID-19.                                   from home and consider staff morale and culture; providing opportunities for connection and a sense of shared experience,
                                                          similar to that of traditional face-to-face interactions.
Research Report to


           National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                    13
Aust ilian    n's He th                       2.   Financial support: Financial assistance schemes such as JobKeeper and JobSeeker were found to be valuable during this
Forum. Western Sydney                              period, sustaining people through job losses or transitions and minimising further distress. It is recommended these support
                                                   packages continue (and or) be reinstated in the event of a future crisis.
University. 2022                              3.   Connection: Keeping people connected is also an important area for future research. While those in relationships leaned
                                                   heavily on those around them and some had access to immediate family and friend networks, some experienced barriers to
                                                   access due to the location, time zone or government mandates. Further community outreach and support programs could be
                                                   considered, as well as policy implications for those lacking in support.
                                              4.   Self-care: Self-care tools were commonly something men either had access to and used effectively or were lacking in and
                                                   were seen to be replaced by less healthy coping mechanisms. Further research into beneficial self-care activities would
                                                   strengthen future government initiatives, wellbeing and educational programs and support service recommendations. While a
                                                   broad range of activities were engaged in (from gardening, to reading and video games), some showed more merit as
                                                   grounding and supportive than others.
                                              5.   Isolation: Isolation was a continual barrier experienced by many men during the pandemic and did not discriminate across
                                                   age, location or cultural background. Strategies devised to reduce isolation such as the "bubble buddy" scheme could be seen
                                                   as skewed to support those who already had strong support networks. The late timing of the scheme and rule confusion
                                                   created barriers for it being effectively utilised, making it a challenge for some to find or access connection. A demand for
                                                   younger men's groups, such as a youth focused Men's Sheds was also noted.
                                              6.   Slowness: Slowing down was a subsequent lifestyle effect of the lockdown period and one that showed positive and negative
                                                   responses. Within the older cohort, there was a strong sense of self awareness and ability to acknowledge their mental health
                                                   and turn to tools for self-regulation (mindfulness, meditation, drawing, reading) and or seek support during periods of distress.
                                                   The implications of this suggest, introducing mindfulness and self-regulation programs into schools could support early self­
                                                   awareness and establish healthy foundations for the future of young men.
                                              7.   Help-seeking: Seeking mental health services was a consistent theme noted during this time, in some cases with men
                                                   engaging with a multidisciplinary team of psychologists, counsellors, psychiatrists and psychologists. Recognising the
                                                   complexity of diagnoses, there is a need for increased case management. Providing holistic case management support would
                                                   relieve systems stress and ensure men were effectively supported across all facets of their mental health and wellbeing. It is
                                                   also recommended there be more access to remote services, male-friendly services and services with additional capacity for
                                                   longer-term support.
                                              8.   Cumulative distress: Cumulative distress was an overarching theme found to lead to significant negative health and wellbeing
                                                   outcomes for men, exemplified by a compounding of all above factors. Research confirmed cumulative distress correlated
                                                   strongly with the social determinants of health theory (outlined by World Health Organisation) suggesting that social variables
                                                   such as employment, income, family relationships and experience of support services impacted distress levels and lead to
                                                   subsequent health impacts. On this basis, it is recommended that research and actions be taken to analyse and address
                                                   system distress, lack in support services, structural barriers affecting access or eligibility to payments or services, policy
                                                   mandates surrounding workplace and education wellbeing programs and an increase in community support programs for
                                                   men.
                                              9.   Research: With these considerations in mind, further research into post-pandemic male wellbeing outcomes is suggested. A
                                                   subsequent follow-up study and/or longitudinal study examining mental wellbeing of men later down the track, would be
                                                   beneficial for obtaining long term positive and negative impacts. Targeting men of greater diversity and marginalisation would
                                                   also be beneficial in creating a full picture of Australian men's lived experiences of mental health and wellbeing post­
                                                   pandemic




          National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                 14
Holme       Par emic          Women with a           1.   Continue bulk-billed telehealth for GP's and specialists and remove reguirement for patients to have seen their doctor in­
Project Final Report.         disability aged over        person within the last 12 months.
People with Disability        18 years               2.   Ensure and promote data gathering and studies about women with disability.
Australia. 2022.                                     3.   Prioritise disability inclusive government responses, messaging, and information.
                                                     4.   Maintain work-from-home alternative in the public service and encourage private organisations to do the same.
                                                     5.   Include women with disability in the consultation and stakeholder engagement processes.
                                                     6.   Increase mental health and domestic violence supports, with specialised training, understanding and accessibility
                                                          reguirements for women with disability.

Australian Human Rights       Children and young
                                                     Each recommendation relates to the priority areas of the Response Plan, as well as to issues raised in sections of the report.
Commission. 'Mental           people (9-17 years)
                                                     These are both indicated in brackets following each recommendation. The recommendations are:
health shapes my life':
COVID-19 & kids' wellbeing.                          1.   Australian governments work together to fully fund and implement the National Children's Mental Health and Wellbeing
                                                          Strategy (Priority Areas 1,2, and 6 in the Response Plan) (See sections 8.3(a) and 9.3(b))
2022.
                                                     2.   The Australian Government seeks the views and experiences of children, young people and their families to inform the
                                                          ongoing implementation and monitoring of the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, including by
                                                          direct engagement through interviews, forums and surveys (Priority Area 6 in the Response Plan) (See section 9.3(d))
                                                     3.   The Australian Government regularly collects national data on the mental health and wellbeing of children and young people
                                                          that can be used to inform policy and service delivery, and to monitor long-term trends in children's mental health during and
                                                          beyond the COVID-19 pandemic (Priority Area 10 in the Response Plan)
                                                     4.   Australian governments conduct child rights impact assessments as part of all policy and law decision-making processes that
                                                          affect children's wellbeing, including in emergency responses (Priority Areas 6 and 10 in the Response Plan) (See section
                                                          9.3(d))
                                                     5.   Australian governments fund evidence based education programs in schools and community settings to improve the mental
                                                          health and wellbeing literacy of children and caregivers, and increase understanding and awareness of mental health issues in
                                                          the community (Priority Area 7 in the Response Plan) (See sections 4, 8.3(a) and 9.3(a))
                                                     6.   Australian governments pilot models of schooling that provide integrated and holistic mental health and wellbeing support,
                                                          including by:
                                                               a. co-locating health and family support services with schools where possible, or facilitating access to community­
                                                                    based services
                                                               b. ensuring teachers receive training and support to address children's wellbeing needs and collaborate with mental
                                                                    health experts where necessary
                                                               c. ensuring trained mental health professionals are available and accessible to all in the school community, including
                                                                    students and their families (Priority Areas 1,2,3 and 6 in the Response Plan) (See sections 7.3, 8.7 and 9.3(c))
                                                     7.   Australian governments make available free or affordable, place-based, holistic mental health services for children and their
                                                          families, including in regional and remote areas (Priority Areas 1,2, 3 and 6 in the Response Plan) (See sections 8.3(a) and
                                                          9.3(b))
                                                     8.   Mental health services for children and families offer a range of delivery options to encourage greater uptake, including face-
                                                          to-face, child-friendly telehealth consultations, digital interventions, and phone helplines, where they are evaluated as
                                                          providing positive outcomes (Priority Areas 1,2,3 and 6 in the Response Plan) (See section 8.5)




           National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                     15
Simmons P, Dalton H,        People living in rural
                                                     Prioritise rural economic stability and social determinants of mental wellbeing:
Ruming N, Powell N,         and remote
Perkins D. Final report:    communities              1.   Reduce desperation among the most vulnerable, including those without financial reserves, reliable income and quality
                                                          housing. Ensure government benefits are adequate for living and provide adequate housing.
Mental health and
                                                     2.   Invest in basic security supports for the general population. Maximise access to affordable housing and improve the stability
wellbeing impacts of the                                  of rural employment through de-casualisation and lengthening rural workforce contracts. In the event of future pandemics,
COVID-19 pandemic on                                      rapidly implement income support such as JobKeeper and other protections (including PPE and vaccine distribution).
rural and remote
                                                     Rebuild social capital in rural communities:
individuals and
communities. Centre for                              3.   Support connectedness in rural communities. Promote and recognize volunteering, especially among the young who are
Rural and Remote Mental                                   perceived to be under-represented in volunteering. Encourage rural residents to participate in social and community
                                                          interactions in local areas. Use short- and long term incentive and promotion strategies to support community and
Health, University of                                     organisation activities (e.g., Victorian Dining and Entertainment vouchers; entertainment, sport, and cultural events of different
Newcastle, Orange NSW,                                    scale).
Australia. 2022.
                                                     Address pre-existing vulnerabilities - rural adversity and capacity of rural mental health system:
[unpublished]
                                                     4.   Increase resources for rural mental health services to address current and projected needs. Support existing rural mental
                                                          health workers with evidence-informed recruitment and retention strategies, such as the Whole-of Person Retention
                                                          Improvement Framework.
                                                     5.   Prioritise service access improvements, including reduced care costs for vulnerable subpopulations such as youth, older
                                                          people, Aboriginal people and people those affected by multiple adversity (e.g., flood or fire).
                                                     Support regional planning and place-based models of mental health care
                                                     6.   Adequately resource and upskill LHNs and PHNs to plan services collaboratively at the regional level, including joint disaster
                                                          preparedness planning, with consideration given to jurisdictional challenges and opportunities (e.g., state/federal boundaries).
                                                     7.   Support place-based care and coordination models that are locally designed to optimise alignment of mental health needs,
                                                          services and resources including peer support and use of non-hospital settings, and care delivery options including face to
                                                          face, outreach, telehealth and hybrid modes. Consider holistic primary care models such as Rural Area Community Controlled
                                                          Health Organisations as proposed by the National Rural Health Alliance.
                                                     Invest in equitable rural access to telecommunication as a national wellbeing priority
                                                     8.   Invest in equitable regional and remote digital communication connectivity: Improve reception and connection infrastructure,
                                                          enhance affordability of connection and devices, and use outreach to improve skills and awareness required for uptake. (See,
                                                          Regional, Rural and Remote Communications Coalition)

                                                     Provide trusted communication
                                                     9.   Consider a strategic communication plan to support how government information (Federal, State and local) is updated
                                                          regularly, distributed and made accessible to a wide audience and tailored for groups with different needs, such as frontline
                                                          employees, small business, organisations responsible for managing public contact and compliance, and people affected by
                                                          state border changes




          National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                         16
Council on the Ageing          People aged over 75     1.   Fund adeguate and appropriate support, education and engagement for priority groups, particularly older people with pre­
 Xustrali;    ital 1 th        years                        existing vulnerabilities to mental ill health, those in residential aged care, from CALD communities, and people with caring
and wellbeing during the                                    responsibilities, including formal and informal carers.
COVID-1 Pandemic: The                                  2.   Improve messaging and communication for older Australians, including advice on how to manage mental health and
                                                            wellbeing, and move beyond a focus on physical wellbeing and impacts of the Pandemic.
lived experience of
                                                       3.   Increase accessible mental health services and preventative measures that are informed by an understanding of ageism,
Australians aged 75 and                                     ageing and gerontology. Explore models that promote and normalise mental health among older Australians. Any education
over. 2023.                                                 and promotion of mental health and wellbeing should be accompanied by adeguately funded and staffed services. Digital and
                                                            online services are not always accessible to older Australians.
                                                       4.   Target strategies at each level of government, including local government. Develop and implement an Older Person's Mental
                                                            Health Strategy that can inform the National Pandemic Response Plan. This strategy should include a social and mental
                                                            health education campaign for older people and work with local government to provide a balance between local responses
                                                            and national oversight.
                                                       5.   Strengthen, fund and expand successful community engagement initiatives and ways of embedding community and social
                                                            connections. Community-based strategies and interventions were crucial to the wellbeing and mental health of many older
                                                            Australians, and successful models should be identified and funded to continue their work in diverse settings.
                                                       6.   Prioritise staff training and education in mental health awareness for people providing care and services to older people. A
                                                            comprehensive Pandemic Response Plan must encompass strategies to support workers and carers during times of crisis. A
                                                            skilled, professional workforce that delivers appropriate care must also receive the support to recover from any vicarious
                                                            trauma.

Ng F, Buckby T, Woolley J,     People with lived       1.   Recognise the Complexity of Trauma for Victim-Survivors of Sexual, Domestic and Family Violence: Full Stop Australia
Love E, Marwood A, Si-Lok      experience of sexual,        recommends that the NMHC engages with a violence and trauma-informed framework to shape all future policy responses to
Yu C, Mesaglio K, Frances      domestic and family          improve trauma support for victim-survivors and assist them in navigating diverse and complex service systems.
Rellama G. Full Stop           violence                2.   Prioritise Accessible, Flexible and Diverse Service Engagement and Support: Full Stop Australia recommends that the National
                                                            Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, and other future policy responses, prioritise the provision of
Australia Final Report: The
                                                            accessible, flexible and diverse support modalities for victim-survivors, such as phone, web, online, and telehealth support,
impact of COVID -19 on the                                  alongside in person support. This support needs to be ongoing to assist clients to navigate the broader service system in an
mental health and                                           integrated way as they progress through their recovery journey from crisis through to trauma management and recovery.
wellbeing of people with                               3.   Make Further Investment in Multidisciplinary Support: Full Stop Australia recommends sustainable investment and funding for
                                                            complex, integrated care coordination and multidisciplinary support. Full Stop Australia recommends the National Mental
lived experiences of sexual,
                                                            Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, and other future policy responses, provide for:
domestic and family                                         •    Sustainable, national investment and funding of crisis support for specialist trauma, sexual, domestic and family violence
violence. Sydney, Australia:                                     and child sexual abuse services to reduce unmet demand in metropolitan, rural, regional and remote locations.
Full Stop Australia. 2022.                                  •    Sustainable, national investment and funding of ongoing healing and recovery services for violence and trauma specialist
                                                                 sexual, domestic and family violence services across the continuum of care in metropolitan, rural, regional and remote
                                                                 locations. Including investment in supporting technology for services and victim-survivors to transition to remote service
                                                                 modalities as outlined in Recommendation 2.
                                                       4.   Strengthen Income and Housing Supports for People Impacted by Sexual, Domestic and Family Violence: Full Stop Australia
                                                            recommends the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, and other future policy responses, include
                                                            a strengthening of income and housing support measures for people impacted by sexual, domestic and family violence.
                                                            Measures should include a suite of solutions from additional social security payments and income protections to enhanced
                                                            rental subsidy schemes, social housing stock development, and an expansion of safe at home programs to support people
                                                            impacted by violence and abuse in appropriate cases to remain home safely whilst the abuser is removed.


           National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                       17
                                                     5.   Invest in Support for At-Risk Groups: The many ways in which victim-survivors navigate and process their trauma differs
                                                          between people. Considering the diverse needs of victim-survivors, Full Stop Australia sees community consultation as
                                                          essential for future sustainable funding for violence and trauma specialist recovery services for at-risk victim-survivors
                                                          disproportionately impacted by COVID-19. At-risk groups include but are not limited to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
                                                          people, people with a disability and chronic health conditions, culturally and linguistically diverse people, LGBTQI+
                                                          communities and young people. Full Stop Australia recommends that National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic
                                                          Response Plan, and other future policy responses, include supports specifically for at-risk groups and that these supports be
                                                          led, co-designed and co-delivered by at-risk populations themselves within a violence and trauma specialist clinical
                                                          framework.
                                                     6.   Increase Community Awareness of Sexual, Domestic and Family Violence Supports and Resources, and of COVID-19 Health
                                                          information: Full Stop Australia recommends that the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, and
                                                          other future policy responses, include investment in increasing community awareness regarding accessing support and
                                                          services and up to date COVID-19 health information throughout any future waves of the pandemic. For this to have a
                                                          significant impact, it is critical that informative public, community health and service awareness measures are targeted to local
                                                          communities with material provided in various languages, tailored to meet the accessibility needs of people with a disability,
                                                          and suited to the support needs of the older persons.
                                                     7.   Mitigate Crisis Impact on Staff: Full Stop Australia recommends the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic
                                                          Response Plan, and other future policy responses, include investment into multimodal mental health, self-care, and wellbeing
                                                          support packages for frontline workers, supported with individual and group debriefing to prevent vicarious trauma and
                                                          workforce burnout in circumstances where staff are required to work from home.
                                                     8.   Violence and Trauma-informed Workforce Capacity Building: Full Stop Australia recommends the National Mental Health and
                                                          Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, and other future policy responses, include investment in trauma-and-violence-informed
                                                          workforce training in all levels of healthcare, community, social service, child protection, police and justice sectors.

Amos A, Macioti PG, Hill      LGBTQ+ communities     1.  Resourcing of LGBTIQ+ community organisations to meet extensive mental health need. Ensuring culturally safe and
AO, Bourne A. Pride and                                  affirming practices in mainstream mental health services.
3andemic: Mental h ilth                              2. Ensuring the provision of culturally safe and affirming practices in mainstream mental health services.
experiences and coping                               3. Enhancing access to LGBTIQ-i-affirming family violence services.
                                                     4. Development and promotion of family of origin violence prevention interventions.
strategies among LGBTQ+
                                                     5. Resourcing of LGBTIQ+ organisations for the provision of drug and alcohol support services.
adults during the COVID-19                           6. Promotion of LGBTIQ-i-affirming support services for drug and alcohol use.
pandemic in Australia.                               7. Funding of LGBTIQ+-community mental health services
National report. Melbourne,                          8. Resourcing of LGBTIQ+ organisations to facilitate accessible peer support groups
Au trails      trail, i                              9. Continued resourcing of and access to telehealth services
                                                     10. Undertaking of focussed research on the experiences of people with an intersex variation.
Research Centre in Sex,                              11. Undertaking of research that focuses on a broader diversity of gender and sexual identities.
Health and Society, La                               12. Undertaking of focussed research among First Nations LGBTIQ+ people.
Trobe University. 2022.                              13. Monitoring of LGBTIQ+ inclusion in future crisis responses.

   ?ntal Health Australia.    People from Italian,   1.   Developing a community empowerment strategy. A thorough community co-design approach involving CALD communities is
Mental health during the      Turkish and                 essential. This includes the designing of messages and choice of communication channels in collaboration with targeted
 DOVID-1 P;       ?mic in     Vietnamese                  CALD communities. This is pivotal in ensuring that the right communication reaches the right people, and the messages are
Italian, Turkish and          communities                 accepted. This also includes a focus on helping people to provide better support for loved ones, including how to open up
                                                          conversations in non-stigmatising ways, howto access professional supports, and reinforcing and enhancing existing models



           National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                       18
Vietnamese communities.                                     of community support that may be impacted by social distancing and isolation requirements during a pandemic. Bicultural
2022.                                                       and bilingual community health workers and community leaders and key to this process.
                                                       2.   Reducing both social and self-stigma is key. Specific stigma reduction activities for CALD communities need to address
                                                            culturally specific and derived stigma. Strategies need to be tailored to mitigate the impact of stigma on help seeking within
                                                            CALD communities. Health literacy material that focuses on the mental health continuum should be used.
                                                       3.   Strengthen and develop a multi-lingual psychologically skilled workforce.
                                                       4.   Consider additional communications channels to communicate about mental health with CALD communities, including
                                                            community radio, social media channels, community leaders and organisations. These need to be informed by CALD
                                                            communities as preferred and trusted sources.
                                                       5.   Consider a referral pathway for CALD people in Australia facing relationship tensions, as part of providing holistic mental
                                                            health support for example InTouch, NIFVSP, White Ribbon, the Domestic Violence Hotline and Windermere.

Petrakis M, Walters C.        Adult carers of those
                                                       Short term
Mental Health Family Carer    who experience
Experiences of COVID-19 in    mental illness, mental   1.   Australian governments to review practices in inpatient and other clinical settings to ensure family inclusion and partnership
                                                            in supporting people with mental health challenges.
Australia: Final report for   ill-health and
                                                       2.   Australian governments to fund the creation of carer peer navigator roles - providing information and support - across
the National Mental H ilth    suicidality                   inpatient and community services for families, carers and supporters.
  immission from the                                   3.   Australian governments to prioritise the creation of carer support on-call roles, accessible via local and regional mental health
NMHCCF as part of the                                       triage services, to respond to crises experienced by families.
Pandemic Gra s for                                     4.   The Australian Government to fund available and responsive mental health carer respite to ensure carer workload does not
                                                            overwhelm family members so they are able to remain in paid work.
Priority Groups. Melbourne:
                                                       5.   In order to respond to current and future major disasters (pandemics, fires, floods, and drought), Australian governments to
SWITCH Research Group,                                      create local and regional mobile centres for family assistance.
Monash University. 2022.
                                                       Long term
                                                       1.   The Australian Government funds diverse modalities of consultations and therapeutic interventions to enable mental health
                                                            consumer and carer choice, inclusive of but not defaulting to telehealth.
                                                       2.   The Australian Government, in recognising the risk inherent in providing long-term and acute mental health care on carers, to
                                                            establish domestic violence services tailored and responsive to family members experiencing acute and/or cumulative risk
                                                            and violence.
                                                       3.   The Australian Government, in recognising the impact of providing long-term and acute mental health care on the
                                                            psychosocial wellbeing of carers, to establish suicide prevention services responsive to family members experiencing acute
                                                            and/or cumulative stress and distress.
                                                       4.   The Australian Government to establish funded family-carer collaborative hubs to foster, mentor and disseminate family
                                                            leadership in service redesign, evaluation and research.
                                                       5.   The Australian Government to provide national guidance and co-ordination for innovation across all states in administration
                                                            and guardianship as it relates to mental health carers concerned about the safety of loved ones in their absence or upon their
                                                            death.




           National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                                                         19
Appendix C - Summary of the women’s mental health in the context of COVID-19
study recommendations

 Additional and targeted supports for women who have experienced violence given a history of violence was a risk
 factor for psychological distress in the pandemic. Potential solutions include:
         ■               Development of an effective recovery strategy for women who have experienced violence.
         ■    Long term recovery programs included as a priority area in the next National Plan to end violence against
              women and children. These should be evidence based and evaluated for efficacy.
 Holistic mental health models given women are faced with a multitude of risk factors for experiencing psychological
 distress including poor mental health, high stress, experiences of violence, poor general health, and financial difficulty,
 all of which have been exacerbated during the pandemic. To be effectively addressed, these complex factors require
 targeted, multi-level approaches. Potential solutions include:
         ■    A multidisciplinary, intersectoral approach to women’s mental health care that addresses histories of
              violence and other complex trauma, physical health issues, and financial and economic capacity.
         ■    Consideration of a strengths-based perspective that enables women to leverage their existing capacities.
 A focus on transitions to motherhood and perinatal mental health given women in their late twenties and early thirties
 were the most at risk of mental health issues during 2020. Women in this age group are likely to be starting families.
 Potential solutions include:
         ■    Promotion of help seeking behaviours to alleviate fears around disclosing mental health issues in the
              perinatal period.
         ■    Increased training and support for the perinatal health workforce to increase capacity for both identification
              of mental health problems and provision of mental healthcare.
         ■    Increased outreach support for this age group of women via the health system during pregnancy and after
              birth.
         ■               Increased access to prevention and mental health literacy programs for this age group.
 A focus on social connectedness given social support and connectedness are protective of mental health. Potential
 solutions include:
         ■               Fostering the development of social networks by access to programs similar to the Men’s Shed initiative.
         ■    Facilitating greater access to appropriate technology to assist with human social contact during lockdowns,
              especially for people who live alone or have recently given birth. This includes training in the use of
              technology for those who need it.
 A focus on women’s economic security given this is a key issue impacting on women’s mental health. Potential
 solutions include:
         ■    Facilitating participation in stable, secure employment through access to flexible conditions, addressing the
              gender pay gap and childcare affordability, and enforcing equitable maternity and paternity leave policies.
         ■               Creation of accessible, flexible education pathways to paid employment.
         ■               Increasing social connectedness.
         ■               Introduction of financial support schemes for women with psychological distress.
         ■               Prioritisation of these initiatives for women at high risk for economic security, particularly those aged in their
              twenties to early thirties.
 Greater access to services given the pandemic limited women’s ability to seek safety from domestic violence, and to
 seek healthcare more generally. Potential solutions include:
         ■    Increasing the availability of telehealth during lockdowns by developing workforce capacity, including high-
              volume crisis strategies.
         ■    Investigating innovative ways for support services to reach women experiencing violence while in isolation
              with an abusive partner.
         ■    Drawing on the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic Response Plan, increasing effective
              messaging so that those who need support and healthcare feel able to safely access services.
 Alleviating increased burdens of lockdowns and outbreaks. Women who were home schooling, undertaking paid work
 (or both), and those who were essential workers reported high levels of stress during lockdowns and outbreaks.
 Potential solutions include:




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                             20
             Employers could implement strategies to assist with the burden of home schooling while undertaking paid
             work, for all parents (e.g. flexible work hours).
             Implementation of plans and activities in line with the National Mental Health and Wellbeing Pandemic
             Response Plan and the National Disasters Mental Health and Wellbeing Framework to address the
             increased levels of stress experienced during pandemics.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                      21
References

1 The Hon Greg Hunt MP. Former Minister for Health and Aged Care. COVID-19: $48.1 Million for National Mental Health and Wellbeing
Pandemic Response Plan. 2020. Available from: https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-greg-hunt-mp/media/covid-19-481-million-
for-national-mental-health-and-wellbeing-pandemic-response-plan
2 Council on the Ageing Australia. Mental health and wellbeing during the COVID-19 Pandemic: The lived experience of Australians
aged 75 and over. 2023.
3 Council on the Ageing Australia. Mental health and wellbeing during the COVID-19 Pandemic: The lived experience of Australians
aged 75 and over. 2023.
4 Mental Health Australia. Mental health during the COVID-19 Pandemic in Italian, Turkish and Vietnamese communities. 2022.
5 Holmes S. Pandemic Project Final Report. People with Disability Australia. 2022.
6 Simmons P, Dalton H, Ruming N, Powell N, Perkins D. Final report: Mental health and wellbeing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic
on rural and remote individuals and communities. Centre for Rural and Remote Mental Health, University of Newcastle, Orange NSW,
Australia. 2022.
7 Amos A, Macioti PG, Hill AO, Bourne A. Pride and Pandemic: Mental health experiences and coping strategies among LGBTQ+ adults
during the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia. National report. Melbourne, Australia: Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health and
Society, La Trobe University. 2022.
8 Holmes S. Pandemic Project Final Report. People with Disability Australia. 2022.
9 Australian Human Rights Commission. ‘Mental health shapes my life': COVID-19 & kids' wellbeing. 2022.
10 Petrakis M, Walters C. Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19 in Australia: Final report for the National Mental Health
Commission from the NMHCCF as part of the Pandemic Grants for Priority Groups. Melbourne: SWITCH Research Group, Monash
University. 2022.
11 Australian Human Rights Commission. ‘Mental health shapes my life': COVID-19 & kids' wellbeing. 2022.
12 Mental Health Australia. Mental health during the COVID-19 Pandemic in Italian, Turkish and Vietnamese communities. 2022.
13 Amos A, Macioti PG, Hill AO, Bourne A. Pride and Pandemic: Mental health experiences and coping strategies among LGBTQ+
adults during the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia. National report. Melbourne, Australia: Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health
and Society, La Trobe University. 2022.
14 Cowlishaw S, O'Dwyer C, Bowd C, Forbes D, O'Donnell, Howard A. Pandemic impacts and
experiences after disaster: A compound disaster perspective. Phoenix Australia - Centre for Posttraumatic
Mental Health: Melbourne. 2022. [unpublished]
15 Holmes S. Pandemic Project Final Report. People with Disability Australia. 2022.
16 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Causes of Death, 2022. September 2023. Available from Causes of Death, Australia, 2022 | Australian
Bureau of Statistics (abs.gov.au)
17 Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, Suicide and Self Harm monitoring Data, Accessed 12 December 2023, Available from
https://www.aihw.gov.au/suicide-self-harm-monitoring/data/covid-19
18 Leske S, Adam G, Catakovic A, Weir B, and Kolves K,. Suicide in Queensland: Annual Report 2022, Australian Institute for Suicide
Research and Prevention, Griffith University, Brisbane. 2022. Available from
https://www.griffith.edu.au/ data/assets/pdf file/0033/1639473/AISRAP-Annual-Report-2022.pdf
19 Biddle N and Gray M, Tracking outcomes during the COVID-19 pandemic (January 2021) - Cautious Optimism- external site opens in
new window, COVID-19 Briefing Paper, ANU Centre for Social Research and Methods, Australian National University, Canberra. 2021.
Available at: https://csrm.cass.anu.edu.au/research/publications/tracking-outcomes-during-covid-19-pandemic-ianuarv-2021-cautious-
optimism
20 Phillips B, Gray M and Biddle N, JobKeeper and JobSeeker impacts on poverty and housing stress under current and alternative
economic and policy scenarios- external site opens in new window, ANU Centre for Social Research and Methods, Australian National
University, Canberra. 2022. Available from https://csrm.cass.anu.edu.au/research/publications/covid-19-iobkeeper-and-iobseeker-
impacts-poverty-and-housing-stress-under
21 Biddle N, Edwards B, Gray M and Sollis K (2020d) Tracking outcomes during the COVID-19 pandemic (August 2020) - Divergence
within Australia- external site opens in new window, COVID-19 Briefing Paper, ANU Centre for Social Research and Methods,
Australian National University, Canberra. Available from https://csrm.cass.anu.edu.au/research/publications/tracking-outcomes-during-
covid-19-pandemic-august-2020-divergence-within
22 Clapperton, A., Spittai, M. J., Dwyer, J., Garrett, A., Kolves, K., Leske, S., Millar, C., Edwards, B., Stojcevski, V., Crompton, D. R., &
Pirkis, J. ‘Patterns of suicide in the context of COVID-19: Evidence from three Australian States. Frontiers in Psychiatry, 12. 2021.
Available from https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsvt.2021.797601.
23 Council on the Ageing Australia. Mental health and wellbeing during the COVID-19 Pandemic: The lived experience of Australians
aged 75 and over. 2023.
24 Australian Human Rights Commission. ‘Mental health shapes my life': COVID-19 & kids' wellbeing. 2022.
25 Amos A, Macioti PG, Hill AO, Bourne A. Pride and Pandemic: Mental health experiences and coping strategies among LGBTQ+
adults during the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia. National report. Melbourne, Australia: Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health
and Society, La Trobe University. 2022.
26 Hall N, Thespourinthone J, Bailey S. Men's lived experiences of mental health during COVID-19. Research Report to Australian
Men's Health Forum. Western Sydney University. 2022.
27 Cowlishaw S, O'Dwyer C, Bowd C, Forbes D, O'Donnell, Howard A. Pandemic impacts and
experiences after disaster: A compound disaster perspective. Phoenix Australia - Centre for Posttraumatic
Mental Health: Melbourne. 2022. [unpublished]
28 Ng F, Buckby T, Woolley J, Love E, Marwood A, Si-Lok Yu C, Mesaglio K, Frances Rellama G. Full Stop Australia Final Report: The
impact of COVID -19 on the mental health and wellbeing of people with lived experiences of sexual, domestic and family violence.
Sydney, Australia: Commonwealth National Mental Health Commission and Full Stop Australia. 2022.
29 Cowlishaw S, O'Dwyer C, Bowd C, Forbes D, O'Donnell, Howard A. Pandemic impacts and
experiences after disaster: A compound disaster perspective. Phoenix Australia - Centre for Posttraumatic




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                        22
Mental Health: Melbourne. 2022. [unpublished]
30 Petrakis M, Walters C. Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19 in Australia: Final report for the National Mental Health
Commission from the NMHCCF as part of the Pandemic Grants for Priority Groups. Melbourne: SWITCH Research Group, Monash
University. 2022.
31 Petrakis M, Walters C. Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19 in Australia: Final report for the National Mental Health
Commission from the NMHCCF as part of the Pandemic Grants for Priority Groups. Melbourne: SWITCH Research Group, Monash
University. 2022.
32 Simmons P, Dalton H, Ruming N, Powell N, Perkins D. Final report: Mental health and wellbeing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic
on rural and remote individuals and communities. Centre for Rural and Remote Mental Health, University of Newcastle, Orange NSW,
Australia. 2022.
33 Cowlishaw S, O'Dwyer C, Bowd C, Forbes D, O'Donnell, Howard A. Pandemic impacts and
experiences after disaster: A compound disaster perspective. Phoenix Australia - Centre for Posttraumatic
Mental Health: Melbourne. 2022. [unpublished]
34 Ng F, Buckby T, Woolley J, Love E, Marwood A, Si-Lok Yu C, Mesaglio K, Frances Rellama G. Full Stop Australia Final Report: The
impact of COVID -19 on the mental health and wellbeing of people with lived experiences of sexual, domestic and family violence.
Sydney, Australia: Commonwealth National Mental Health Commission and Full Stop Australia. 2022.




National Mental Health Commission                                                                                                   23
