■corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts

A full enquiry should be made into the secret contracts between drug companies, Bill Gates Foundation,
                                                          all political leaders and Health Ministers partaking
in the administration of the Covid injection.

Also, a full enquiry into the contracts conducted between the political parties and Medical Association
preventing doctors and nurses from speaking their truth in fear of being de-registered. What was the
role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors?

■mask mandates

A full enquiry to the vicious and aggressive mandates of wearing mask, when there is absolutely no
scientific proof that masks prevent virus transmission.

■lock downs

A full enquiry into the vicious and aggressive treatment of people during lockdowns.

There needs to be a full investigation as to why people were viciously attacked and contained for years
that destroyed lives, businesses and the economy far beyond the affects of the 'virus' itself.

■vaccine mandates

A full enquiry into the severe mandates forcing people to get injected in fear of losing their livelihood
and connecting with family and elderly members.

A full enquiry should also include full disclosure of all health data relating to the affects and death of the
Covid injection.

A full enquiry should also include full transparency of the ingredients of all manufactured Covid
Injections.

Full enquiry to the transparency of covid vaccine ingredients and the data relating to the vaccine trials
that harmed and killed many people.

A full enquiry as to why there is sudden increase of deaths in our population in the last few years, and
why the conduct of autopsy of these sudden deaths is suppressed.

■lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission

Full enquiry to why the media continued to lie to the public about the efficiency rates of Covid
Injections.

Full enquiry into who dictated orders to the media to provide false health information.

A full enquiry into the media's tactics in creating hype and fear to coerce people in taking the injection.
A full enquiry as to why the media continues to lie to the public about the Covid 'virus' and the lethal
covid injections, and how much they get paid to continue to lie to the public.

A full enquiry into who owns the media and if in fact journalists are actually certified journalists.
