                             Submission and evidence file
        Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Removal of Ability to Work

My wife was a permanent part-time teacher before the covid orders for all unvaccinated teachers to
not just be suspended for the pandemic, but to have their employment terminated.

She has had to move to supply teaching which impacts our family greatly and has not been able to
secure another permanent part-time position. There are serious family, lifestyle, and financial
implications for this, to this day.

Since there were genuine health concerns for previous conditions, we could not take the risk of
testing an experimental vaccine that was known to affect those previous conditions.



Incentivising and Manipulating Metrics to Increase Panic

    -       Television Stations were given tax incentives to present only one side of the narrative
    -   Multiple friends were requested that they report as covid-positive with only flu-like
        symptoms
    -   A close and trustworthy friend in Queensland Health explained how doctors' departments
        were incentivized, sometimes up to $30,000, to report a death as "due to covid." They
        explained how this incentivisation caused people to be put on ventilators which were likely
        to have been the cause of death, rather than covid itself.
    -       Flu deaths virtually disappeared during covid
    -   Media reported after the majority of the pandemic that the vast majority of deaths used to
        scare people into getting a vaccine were either elderly, had at least one co-morbidity but in
        most cases had multiple.
    -   People were encouraged not to interpret the limited data presented by the government
        themselves
    -   People were encouraged directly by politicians to "trust the science" which, in hindsight was
        poor and deadly advice because "the science" proved to be contrary to what was trusted at
        the time



Lack of Risk Information

    -   Covid vaccines were highly experimental and zero choice was given to people who chose not
        to participate
    -       Multiple friends have had adverse reactions
    -   One friend has died and all his close friends suggest it was from the vaccine, though no
        thorough inquiry has been made into how many deaths or adverse reactions were caused by
        the vaccine
    -       Information about Children and even middle-aged people was suppressed
TGA Regulation

   -       The TGA appears to be heavily funded by the industry they claim to regulate



             Mandates

   -       Unvaccinated people were targeted and ridiculed in media
   -   People were given no choice and forced to comply or be excluded from society and in some
       cases isolated. This is discrimination based on health status.
   -       Almost no exemptions were approved, even for known heart (and other) conditions



Illogical Mandates

   -   Unvaccinated people were banned from many public places, even though the vaccine should
       have protected recipients. Given the protection of the vaccine for the individual, only
       unvaccinated people would have been at risk (less than 10% as reported by media).
   -   Unvaccinated people continued to be banned from public places even after it was
       established that the vaccine did not stop the spread of covid
   -   Masks outdoors and in cars, even by oneself. This makes no logical sense given that viruses
       do not live outside in sunlight and fresh air
   -   Limits placed on exercise. Reducing access to exercise, particularly outdoors, causes poor
       health, increasing the spread of viruses (distance from home, wearing masks while
       exercising, etc.)
   -       Isolation leading to death - it is clear that suicides increased, likely from isolation



Economic Impact

   -   Complete and total disregard was given to business operations. We directly lost
                      due to lockdowns
   -   A paltry compensation was provided for some businesses who had staff, but no income loss
       compensation was provided and yet was directly caused by the government mandates
