                      Covid-19 Inquiry Submission
                                             9 December 2023


     Thank you for the opportunity to represent this. There are political, economic, medical and
moral factors at play. I apply contextual theology as a moral force and develop a reasoned argument
for God's call to confront and dismantle this dangerous imbalance of power over the people of
Australia.
     For a very long time, the last "Covid-19 pandemic" death in Victoria was fixed at 30 November
2020 (the 820th) and the second last death recorded was 28 October 2020. The first two so called
Covid-19 deaths of 2021 were both recorded on 1 September 2021 (a useful time marker). From that
date the numbers began to increase markedly. From then until exactly a year later to September 1,
2022, a total of 4,505 deaths were added to the initial 820 of 2020. What does that say for anyone
with a brain, given that the jab roll-out began around January of 2021, especially given that the
majority of those dying had received one, two or three poison doses? It's glaringly obvious that
people who were jabbed had their health compromised by this medical intervention.
     Another year went by (to September 1, 2023) and an additional 3,057 Victorian so called Covid-
19 deaths have been added to the covidlive.com.au site (Vic). These deaths are very likely
disconnected to the 997 reports to the TGA, those that are myocarditis deaths and other "sudden"
deaths after the jab. If we add the original 2020 Covid-19 deaths (which I argue were mostly through
ineffective and dangerous hospital protocol interventions and/or otherwise deaths blamed as
caused by Covid-19) to these later Covidlive.com.au and TGA stats, to September 2023, we have
9,379. Also, be aware that jab related deaths are under-reported, so these numbers must me
greater still. The Australian Bureau of Statistics "released a report of mortality statistics and showed
that from January to July 2022, there were 17% more deaths (16,375) than the average expected for
these months." These are real people, family, friends, tragically lost, many in their prime of life.
     For the ABS article: https://theconversation.com/thousands-more-australians-died-in-2022-
than-expected-covid-was-behind-the-majority-of-them-196281
     My source for the Covid-19 death numbers https://covidlive.com.au/report/daily-deaths/vic
      All this is akin to mass genocide. A great public awakening and the resulting action for justice
will reveal that the injection, whatever the brand, is anti-health and anti-life. What is happening is
truly an evil of the highest order and our Government and the legacy media are complicit in it. God
has said "Vengeance is mine". I pity those in Government and MSM who knowingly perverted the
truth. This is a world wide deception. I believe that we are living in a "fraud of unprecedented
dimensions". To support this belief I have only to refer to a 2021 court ruling in Portugal where "a
Lisbon court forced the authorities to provide verified COVID-19 mortality data", which showed "the
number of verified COVID-19 deaths from January 2020 to April 2021 to be only 152, not about
17,000 as claimed by government ministries".
     https://beforeitsnews.com/eu/2021/06/lisbon-court-rules-only-0-9-of-verified-cases-died-of-
covid-numbering-152-not-17000-claimed-2673922.html
    There were determined and brutal efforts to suppress Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine
which have both been used successfully in treating patients with Covid-19. Therefore there was NO
need to resort to a totally experimental injectable mRNA "device" that dangerously reproduces spike
protein toxins in many organs of the body and causes auto-immune disorders. If the injection was
ever to be approved it had to pass a very thorough testing protocol. The link just below is one

                                                   1
engaging story of how knowledgeable doctors hit the wall of censorship and opposition when trying
to save their patients with the safe and well accepted (but out of patent) drug Ivermectin. For those
of you who prefer a peer-reviewed research paper on Ivermectin you might find the second link
below strongly convincing. I'm sure that we could find many similar stories surrounding
Hydroxychloroquine.
     https://www.mountainhomemag.com/2021/05/01/356270/the-drug-that-cracked-covid
     https://www.medicalpressopenaccess.com/upload/1605709669_1007.pdf
      Australian State Governments extended their so called emergencies to create intermittent lock­
downs after reporting on conveniently inflated spikes in "cases". They needed to continue the
emergency measures in order to keep public fear "stoked-up" and to roll out the experimental
injection of a substance which has never been proved safe for use in humans! Our governments
relied on these emergency "constructs" to carry out this medical poisoning on their unsuspecting
and trusting constituents. People who took these experimental injections risked death or a serious
injury to their health. As a result, many trusting people are killed or now medically compromised and
will live a shorter lifespan. Truthful medical experts attempted to warn society of the dangers and
their warnings were systematically censored or ridiculed.
      This so called pandemic is complex and has many layers to sort through. There is suppression of
successful Covid-19 treatments by the mainstream media who relentlessly pushed a highly
dangerous "countermeasure", a technology to change people's DNA and medically compromise
them for life. There is the suppression of the expert witness, and instead we got lies from the puppet
politicians and their bureaucrats who have acted in fear and/or embraced power and wealth. There
are the pharmaceutical companies and major corporations who are benefiting financially through
this hyped up crisis which they actively invest in to keep this gravy-train going. There is the
disastrous pollution the world over from scientifically proven as useless disposable face-masks.
There exists the secret contracts and hidden payments into government coffers and corporations
alike. The complicit judiciary has turned a blind eye.
    https://www.thehealthsite.com/news/covid-19-vaccines-can-cause-sudden-cardiac-deaths-
warns-expert-calls-for-its-withdrawal-from-market-942361/
     In the case of the South African Apartheid crisis, there were 700 deaths recorded from the
Soweto uprising during 1976 and 1977, and only then did good leaders rise to take a stand. Yet the
deaths from the mass poisoning inoculations we are witnessing at present in Australia is at least ten
times this number when true statistics are finally released.
     The States have perpetrated violence against their populations with "industrial level" coercion,
forcing people to accept the poison needle through fear, deception and reprisals such as "no jab no
job". To quell public protest, they arrested and detained those who rallied publicly against their
narrative. The state directed the "corporate" Police to enforce their measures with a level of
brutality not seen in Australia for many generations. This overreach against ordinary people ought to
be enough to jolt society into action. People are called to speak out fearlessly but are afraid to do so.
The State could harass and cancel their security, their registrations! But we must remember always
that God aligns with the oppressed and suffers alongside them. Society will find God in the
confrontation and not in the church pews. The state created an apartheid system in Australia and
any courageous stand against it will take on a life of its own. This will be a God supported high-
profile confrontation against corrupt governments, so needed at this present moment. The enemy of
freedom is relying on our weakened resolve. The satanic enemy's ultimate goal is to totally destroy
humanity, so what have we to lose if we stand up to be counted?
    When human "rules" are based on a fake narrative we are obliged to push back. The obvious
deaths and injury resulting from the Covid-19 injections ought to be enough to convince society that
"enough is enough". A new wave of God's prophets are now raising their voice. A prophet stands in

                                                   2
God's courtroom and makes an appeal. In past times they called out their leaders over abuse and
corruption and many suffered and died as a result. Our modern governments have resorted to
violent methods of coercion and won't admit the error of their ways, so today's prophets risk abuse,
even martyrdom. With the censorship powers of corrupt media, governments are ignoring the
prophetic voice and pushing on with a WEF led puppet master agenda to enslave the world. We can
expect vicious responses when these dark hearts are challenged with righteous resistance. To
undermine push-back they "promote" Police brutality and "whisper" that they might deploy the
military. If necessary they will destroy all opposition, and detain without trial, but this will only
increase the outcry for justice and freedom.
     The globalist elite foreshadow their evil plans by publicly advertising their intentions, in the
sense of petitioning in God's court for approval. For our part, we simply counter this by speaking
directly into the same courtroom, a privilege given to us through Jesus' victory on the cross. God
waits for Jesus' siblings (us), evoking the name of Christ, to call out the plans that Satan has taken
thousands of years to bring to fruition. We are called to pray out this false prophetic endeavour. As
prosecutors in God's courtroom, as children of God, we have the victory over evil once and for all.
     According to covidlive.com.au, the pandemic narrative remains clumsily propped up in order to
fan fear and postpone, for as long as possible, criminal indictments for this attack on humanity. We
must critique these stats with wisdom and care to allow for misinformation, especially given that
tests for "cases" are never able to be truthfully diagnostic. As sovereign children of God, we are
permitted to engage with our Creator Father in the same way that Jacob struggled and won a safe
future outcome (Genesis 32:24-28). Jacob left nothing to chance and changed history by altering the
projected tragedy. We are called to contest alongside God in the same way. Another great biblical
figure, Job, who lost everything, held his ground and maintained his personal petition until God
altered his perspective with more powerful reasoning. While we may have to "repent in dust and
ashes" (Job 42:5-6), we are called to make the world a better place, warts and all.
     On the strength of all the above, I demand a Royal Commission for a full investigation into the
so called Covid-19 Pandemic response in Australia and its consequences at governmental, corporate,
medical and judicial level. Within this, I want the vaccine acquisitions and secret contracts with
vaccine manufacturers exposed. I want the vaccine mandates and the justification for the so called
health "orders" to be thoroughly investigated. I want the official misinformation about vaccines
blocking transmission to be exposed for all to become aware of. I want to know the full extent of
vaccine injuries. I want to know why doctors have been silenced and some even deregistered for
prescribing successful off-label medications. As you can see, I am very concerned, as we all should
be, and a Royal Commission is definitely called for, one armed with the power to subpoena
appropriate agencies along with any "whistle-blowers" who come forward with full assurance for
their protection.
    Thank you for reading my submission. Robert Ackland.




                                                  3
