                                    SUBMISSION

Australia’s response to the recent pandemic was excessive and drachonian. It was
counterproductive to mental health, especially in children. Public Health data attests
to this. It was also detrimental to small business and many businesses did not survive.
The registry of small business attests to this.

                         LOCKDOWNS AND REPORTING

In 2018 there were 7889 deaths from chronic respiratory disease in Australia* There
were no lockdowns, no border closures, no masks or panic.
Reporting COVID case numbers is not in the public interest. It is simply feeding
paranoia. Before this pandemic, case numbers were not reported in the way they are
now. In that year and the years previous when there were similarly high numbers
there was no daily reporting of how many people had the flu. Most of the deaths were
attributed to comorbidity and opportunist infection of the elderly. Everyone chose
their own personal response to the threat of infection.
We need to view COVID as just another element of life in a highly populated and
polluted world. The high cost of the current pandemic management to mental health,
the economy and the environment is ridiculously counterproductive.

The Chief Health Officer Paul Kelly told a Senate Committee that 71.2% of COVID
deaths to the end of October 2021 involved pre-existing health conditions such as
diabetes, heart disease, lung disease and dementia.
According to the WA Department of Health as of 7th February there have been 4,203
deaths classified as COVID in Australia.
According to the Parliament of Australia statistics in 2018, there were 158,493 deaths
in Australia. This included heart disease 17,533; dementia 13,963; influenza and
cerebovascular disease 9,972; trachea, bronchus and lung disease 8586; colonic
diseases 5420; diabetes 4,656; prostate disease 3264 and pneumonia 3,102.
Covid Live and health.gov.au at one point both cited TOTAL Covid deaths in
Australia currently at 1,102. (This figure does not indicate age categories or co­
morbidity factors.)
This does not justify lockdowns with their destructive effects on mental health, social
well-being and the economy. It does not justify talk of mandatory vaccination and the
concomitant loss of civil freedom.

https://covidlive.com.au/report/deaths
https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-alerts/novel-coronavirus-2019


                                  IMMUNISATION

According to the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the Covidl9
Absolute Risk Factor is 0.88% for unvaccinated and 0.4% for vaccinated.
The 95% efficacy reported by Pfizer represents only Relative Risk Reduction.
The Absolute Risk Reduction from vaccination is actually 0.84%. According to
ACSH natural immunity provides a relative risk rate of 20% and overall protection of
80% in those under 65 and 47% in those over 65.
These figures surely justify the individual right to choose natural immunity as their
preferred mode of protection.

https://www.fda.gov/media/81597/download
https://www.facebook.corn/nemojoneshere/videos/348748583722241
American Council on Science and Health:
https://www.acsh.org/news/2021/03/24/how-protective-natural-immunity-covid-19-
1S t
https://www.canadiancovidcarealliance.org/media-resources/absolute-vs-relative-risk-
reduction-understanding-the-difference-and-why-it-matters/
https://www.abs.gov.au

                                         WHO

Australia must retain complete sovereign autonomy in managing any future
pandemics. Australia’s response must be managed in Australia by Australian
authorities.
The World Health Assembly is seeking to amend its International Health Regulations
to create a new international convention on pandemic prevention, preparedness and
response. It has been labelled the “Pandemic Treaty”. Australia is expected to be one
of one hundred and ninety-four member states that will be asked to sign the treaty.
Australians should not allow their Government to sign this treaty.
Some of the proposed amendments include: erasing the words “with full respect for
the dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons,” which were a clear
statement of admirable intent and replacing them with “based on the principles of
equity, inclusivity, coherence and in accordance with their common but appreciated
responsibilities of the States Parties, taking into consideration their social and
economic development” - an obfuscation that weakens the statement and allows for
manipulative reinterpretation Analysis by a wide range of bodies in the past year has
shown error and inconsistency were hallmarks of world wide pandemic management.
There is growing evidence in mainstream medical science that vaccines were not the
panacea to ensure universal health and immunity and that Covid is not the bogeyman
it was feared to be. Covid-related death rates during the pandemic do not deviate from
nonnal distribution data for chronic respiratory disease prior to the pandemic. *
It is now well accepted that lockdowns and border closures were undeniably harmful
both socially and economically. It is essential that they are used judiciously by local
authorities best able to understand and monitor likely impacts. No international
committee can possibly make accurate judgments for one hundred and ninety-four
nations. **
Another aspect of the proposed amendments seeks power for the WHO to act on
“undisclosed sources” in its decision-making and declarations. All citizens have a
right to know that vested interests are not at play. Pharmaceutical companies made
billions of dollars from Covid vaccinations. They were a powerful lobby voice, even
deferred to as authorities during the pandemic. It is reasonable to expect that they and
their shareholders will be motivated by further profit; likewise the manufacturers of
surgical masks, sanitizers and all the medical paraphernalia associated with pandemic
management.
With this treaty the World Health Organization seeks greater access to the personal
and private data of citizens in its preparation for and response to a health emergency.
Why do they require this? They cannot possibly manage the populations of one
hundred and ninety four countries. That is some kind of absurd corporate
megalomania that would require the cooperation of every individual government and
public service.
WHO also seeks to “strengthen its ties to universities, government departments, and
social media platforms.” This would provide leverage for them to censor any views
that contradict their own. Much of what the WHO claimed was misinformation and
disinfonnation in 2020 is now accepted as fact. Medical researchers and practitioners
must be protected from commercial pressures and vested interests and remain free to
express their professional views without threat of censorship or loss of funding.
The WHO further seeks powers with respect to international travel including
requirement of vaccination proof and enforced quarantining. This violates the
sovereign rights of citizens from all nations. For Australians this is unacceptable. We
should not accept the rule of any unelected and unaccountable body.

* In 2018 the Australia Bureau of Statistics cited 7889 deaths from these diseases.
The Health Department cited 4203 Covid related deaths in Australia from the
beginning of the pandemic to February 2022. Australian
Chief Heath Officer | ^^^^|told a Senate Committee in 2022 that 71.2% of Covid
deaths involved pre-existing health conditions.
** Western Australia’s management of the pandemic was not perfect but it is a case in
point for independent decision-making designed to meet the requirements of specific
locations.

                           MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE

Against my belief and lifelong practice of healthy living for natural immunity, which
had protected me to that point, I submitted to two vaccinations. I felt pressured to do
this because I was being excluded from most of the social and family events that are
important to me (eg. family birthdays and friend’s get togethers at restaurants and
bars). I feel the vaccinations compromised my health, my freedom and my personal
beliefs.

                                     FOOTNOTE

We currently have a surge in Covid numbers in WA and the restrictions are almost
negligible apart from medical centres such as hospitals.

                                SUBMITTED 1.12.23

Stephen Faulds
