                  Covid-19 Response- Parliamentary Committee Report
         Dr.                    MBChB (Otago), FRANZCP, MPM (Monash)

   1.      Introduction
        My name is                          a consultant psychiatrist who has practiced
psychiatry for the past^^^^H and as a consultant for^^^^l I have worked both in the
public and private sectors, mostly in Victoria, but have also had experience working in the
public sector of Western Australia and New South Wales. For a good part of my career, I
worked as a^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Bworking and collaborating with other medical
specialists. I have also undergone training inand simulation
of neural networks. I will produce succinct evidence (elaborated in references) regarding
vitamin D during this Pandemic and the proposal to build an Artificial Intelligence System
that may mitigate mistakes such as those made during this Pandemic.

   2.      Actions taken during the pandemic
        I had commenced collaborating with a woNc^xnei^i^itamin D and other
micronutrients in health and illness, Professorearly in the Pandemic.
We wrote three papers and made international presentations and attempted to inform
authorities about our opinion and findings (see the evidence below). In Australia, I sent two
emails to the Premier of Victoria, requesting that the Chief Medical Officer consider my
pleas. Further, when an Aboriginal community in NSW was affected, I sent another email to
the labour representative for Aboriginal affairs.
I have not had any feedback/response nor any evidence that Health Authorities took note of
our recommendations. Below, is the evidence that emerged early (mostly 2020) in the
Pandemic that vitamin D is important in prophylaxis and adjunctive acute treatment of
COVID-19 is presented.

   3. Accumulation of evidence indicating the need to use vitamin D status as a
      prognosticator and as a prophylactic and treatment agent early in the Pandemic

   a) The efficacy demonstrated by the end of 2020 for management of COVID-19 with
      vitamin D has been confirmed by a pooled sample of hundreds of studies. They all
      converge to a similar level of efficacy already gleaned in 2020.
   b) Evidence was also present in 2020, that a serum vitamin D level equivalent to
      50ng/mL would reduce infection rate by half.
   c) Independent sources of evidence prior to and during the early pandemic converged to
      demonstrate that achieving a vitamin D serum level of 50ng/mL (125 nmol/1) would
      reduce mortality and that the natural state of human being living under the sun is to
      have that level of vitamin D.
   d) Pooled studies as the pandemic progressed have demonstrated that early treatment
      with vitamin D is essential in reducing morbidity and saving lives. Delay in giving
      high dose vitamin D from onset of symptoms to a 6-day delay reduced the efficacy
      from 100% to 0%.
   e) Further, it was known and advocated in 2021, that calcifediol is the form of vitamin D
      that should be used in acute treatment in preference to calcitriol (the active form of
      D), in order to achieve adequate serum levels rapidly (within hours). If calcitriol was
      used even in high bolus doses (100 000 IU inadequate, 2-300 000 IU adequate), the
      time to achieve adequate serum concentrations was several days. Thus, early use of
         calcifediol could have prevented hospitalisation and ICU bed usage by millions of
         people around the World.
         (Please see accompanying file of slides for illustration of this evidence).

   4. The Explanation for why adequate/optimal vitamin D levels resulted in the
      remarkable outcomes outlined above
       Seventy-five percent of the immune system functions dependent on having sufficient
vitamin D in the bloodstream whereas deficiency, increases vulnerability to diseases, especially
infections like SARS-CoV-2.

COVID-19, the disease caused by SARS-COV-2 is a systemic disease which results in two
broad paths that can lead to death:

   1) Cytokine Storm, that causes excess inflammation, particularly in the lungs resulting in
      Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS)
   2)    Thromboembolism that leads to Pulmonary embolism, heart attacks and stroke

Vitamin D, at optimum levels (50ng/mL or 125 nmol/1) enhances immunity and protects against
poor prognosis by, the following actions:

   1) It turns on genes within immune cells such as macrophages, that produce antimicrobial
      peptides that control and eliminate pathogens. In addition, these chemicals prevent
      cytokine storms.
   2) Vitamin D also helps cells important in antibody production such as T-helper cells,
      transforming them into an anti-inflammatory form.
   3) It also strengthens skin and mucus membranes and prevent them being leaky for
      pathogens to enter.
   4) It impacts on another system necessary for defence of the body called the renin­
      angiotensin system (RAS). Angiotensins are products of this system and the second of
      these Angiotensin II gets converted by Angiotensin-converting Enzyme II (ACEH), to
      a vasodilator. Angiotensin II causes vasoconstriction (increased blood pressure and
      thromboembolism. Vitamin D deficiency leads to lowered tissue and circulating ACEH.
      It should be noted that tissue (cell-membrane) ACEH, through which SARS-COV2
      enters human respiratory cells, rapidly consumes them thus further reducing availability
      of ACEH. The increase in Angiotensin II leads to cytokine storm and vasoconstriction
      leading to the principle causes of death (ARDS and Pulmonary/Coronary embolism).

    5.      The reason for the required serum Concentration of vitamin D
     As implied previously, there are different forms of vitamin D. Most important is calcifediol
(also called calcidiol) which is the precursor of calcitriol, the active form. For the latter to
engage in actions within cells (such as turning on genes), the required level required is quite
high. The calcifediol levels required to reach adequate levels within a cell is about 50ng/mL
(125nmol/L). Once in the cells this gets converted to calcitriol at levels that are about 20 times
the concentration of calcitriol in the blood (i.e. it will not cross the membrane into the cell).
Thus, in an emergency it is better to use calcifediol. Calcifediol is also called 25(OH)D. The
level of this found in populations living in the open is about 40-60 ng/mL (100-150 nmol/L).


    6.      Risks/Cost of vitamin D
Calculating the costs of intervention must include the economic cost (cost of intervention of a
drug or a nutrient), opportunity costs, and cost of investigations and managing adverse
effects. Vitamin D3 has been proven safe, even at high doses of 15,000 lU/day, 20,000
lU/day, 50,000 lU/per week, and single high doses (but not repeat doses) up to 500,000 IU
(ESPN guidelines), which are reported devoid of demonstrable adverse effects. Vitamin D is
economical; treating a person cost less than US$2/person and, on average, US$8/person/year
for prophylactic use. (In Australian dollars the cost could be twice as much).


   7. Poor logic in decisions to not recommend vitamin D as a public health measure
Given its low cost and risk and high likelihood of helping reduce the impact of COVID-19, the
benefit of using vitamin D was immense and its non-use could be considered disastrous. The
following table demonstrates the outcomes of giving or not giving vitamin D, whether its
effect is considered real or not. This obvious logic appears to have escaped health
administrators, because in modern Evidence-Based Medicine, they are used to complex
statistical methods and principles that can lead to wrong conclusions due to faulty logic. The
complexities of such faults are discussed in two papers out of a series of papers by us.




                                        Rea! (A)                Not Rea! (not A)

         Given (B)              Great benefit (A and B)     Smail cost (B only - given

                                                            but not real)

         Not Given (not B)      Catastrophe    (A only-     No risk (neither A nor B)

                                real effect- not given)
                                (Health and Economic)



   8. Mechanisms to prevent Health Authorities making false deductions and wrong
      decisions in future
   1) Educate medical personnel regarding the pitfalls of blindly following logic used for
      one kind of treatment evaluation (RCT) and applying this to all situations including an
      emergency and to naturalistic and observational, retrospective studies.
   2) Instead of using standard statistical methods that could be used (knowingly or
      unknowingly) in submerging the true effects of related confounders (such as vitamin
      D level and its antecedent causes), aim to use more modem machine learning
      paradigms using appropriate logic.
   3) Use a built in and complete logical system congment with how humans think into
      machine learning AI algorithms capable of designing and evaluating studies
      appropriate for observational clinical data in a future pandemic. Such logic and
      algorithms could be potentially developed to be used in portable devices such as
      laptops, that would bring the strength of large databases and labs to the fingertips of
      clinicians. This would permit more rapid clinical consensus to emerge, freeing
      clinicians from excessive regulatory oversight.

It is conceivable, based on current knowledge that option 3 above is feasible to implement.
