A New Approach (ANA)


               8 January 2024

               COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
               Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

               COVID-19 Response Inquiry

               A New Approach (ANA) welcomes this opportunity to make a submission. ANA is the national
               think tank focused on arts and culture, ensuring Australia secures its place as a cultural
               powerhouse. Through credible and independent public leadership, ANA helps build an
               ambitious and innovative policy and investment environment for arts, culture and creativity.

               ANA research shows that arts and culture have an inseparable and transformative presence in
               the lives of everyday Australians.1 Our research also shows cultural and creative industries
               faced substantial COVID-19 impacts. In September 2020, ‘arts and recreation’ businesses were
               still the most likely to be operating under modified conditions; by June 2021, they were the most
               likely to be expecting difficulty in meeting their financial commitments over the upcoming three
               months.2

               This submission focuses on the following terms of reference: Broader health and social
               supports; financial support for individuals; mechanisms to better target future responses to the
               needs of particular populations; and support for industry and businesses. In our role as a
               philanthropically funded, independent think tank, ANA is ready to provide further information
               about the response in this submission and would welcome the opportunity to discuss. We
               confirm that this submission can be made public.

               Warm regards,




               Kate Fielding, CEO, A New Approach (ANA)



               1 This was a nationwide study exploring attitudes towards arts, culture and creativity amongst middle
               Australians. In rooms and Zooms around the country, ANA brought together people from low to middle income
               households, living in outer suburban and regional areas, in every state and territory. Kate Fielding, Aakanksha
               Sidhu, and Angela Vivian, “Intergenerational Arts and Culture: Lessons across Middle Australia” (A New
               Approach (ANA), October 2023), https://newapproach.orq.au/analysis-papers/intergenerational-arts-and-
               culture-lessons-across-middle-australia/.

               2 Angela Vivian, Kate Fielding, and Tim Acker, “The Big Picture 3: Expenditure on Artistic, Cultural and Creative
               Activity by Governments in Australia in 2007-08 to 2020-21” (Canberra, Australia: A New Approach, March
               2023), 59, https://newapproach.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2O23/O3/A-New-Approach-ANA Biq-Picture-3-
               Expenditure-on-Artistic-Cultural-and-Creative-activity-by-qovernments-in-Australia-in-2OO7%E2%8O%93O8-
               to-2020%E2%80%9321.pdf.



                                                                        Contact                            Find


Arts and culture made evident.                                          hello@newapproach.org.au           1.04,221 London Cct
                                                                                                           Canberra ACT 2601
Broader health and social supports
ANA suggests continuing to explore opportunities to apply arts and culture to tackle mental
and physical health issues arising from pandemics. Our research highlights substantial
evidence that use of arts and culture in clinical settings consistently improves physical, mental
and emotional health? The evidence includes a world-first 2016 Australian study showing that
weekly 2-hour ‘doses’ of creative activities could enhance mental wellbeing in a general
population. Likewise, a World Health Organisation review of 900 research publications found
evidence that applying arts has benefits in health communication, engagement with healthcare,
mental health and healthcare costs." This would benefit many Australians, including cultural and
creative industry workers. Health and wellbeing were key issues of COVID-19 for these
workers, as a House of Representatives Inquiry confirmed through a survey of 4,871 workers."1


Financial support for individuals
ANA welcomes the provision offinancial support for cultural and creative industry workers
during the pandemic. The House Inquiry confirmed financial support was crucial for those
employed full-time, part-time, or casual on a regular and systematic basis for more than 12
months?'' COVID-19 had an immediate and significant impact in cultural and creative industries,
with employment dropping by an estimated 872,000 people from March to May 2020, before
rising by estimated 446,000 from May to September 2020.v The section below highlights a need
to financially support a fuller range of cultural and creative industry workers.


Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
populations
In 2020, the Bureau of Communications and Arts Research (BCAR) noted ‘up to around 90 per
cent of the cultural and creative sector workforce could be eligible for JobKeeper’.vl However,
ANA suggests mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of two particular
populations engaging in the cultural and creative industries:

    •   certain casual and short-term workers. ANA considers workers losing employment
        and income because of a pandemic generally deserve access to financial support,
        through industry-targeted and/or general support programs. The House Inquiry
        highlighted casual and short-term workers in cultural and creative industries (consistent
        with such workers in other industries) were ineligible for JobKeeper.vii These workers did
        not have these financial supports while unemployed and were later more likely to remain
        unemployed. In 2020, BCAR noted casuals with less than 12-month tenure (42,400
        people or 7 per cent of cultural and creative industries workers) and short-term
        employees on a fixed contract (9,700 or 2 percent) did not qualify for JobKeeper.™
        However, workers in cultural and creative industries who were also in the ‘arts and
        recreation services’ sector (where 36.9 per cent were casual workers in 2020, as the
        Parliamentary Library found) were much more likely to miss out on JobKeeper.ix

    •   participants and workers in cultural and creative activity. ANA supports the Bureau of
        Communications, Arts and Regional Research’s continuing refresh of the Cultural and
        Creative Activity Satellite Accounts, which unlock potential in the national statistics to
        quantify cultural and creative activity and track how it changes over time. This essential

                                                                                                  2
         work will help overcome shortcomings the House Inquiry identified in data on cultural
         and creative activity during COVID-19.iv
                                               x
                                               ix
                                               viii
                                               vii
                                               *vi


Support for industry and businesses
ANA welcomes support for cultural and creative industries that pandemics disrupt. During
COVID-19, direct government expenditure remained a modest proportion of total income in
cultural and creative industries. In 2020-21, sales and services accounted for 87 per cent of
total income, while COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 direct government expenditure accounted for
5 per cent each.xi COVID-19 direct government expenditure included support such as
JobKeeper.


Endnotes
1 Kate Fielding, Iva Glisic, and Jodie-Lee Trembath, “Transformative: Impacts of Culture and Creativity,” Insight
Series (Canberra: A New Approach and The Australian Academy of Humanities, November 2019),
https://newapproach.orq.au/wp-content/uploads/2O21/O7/2-ANA-lnsiqhtReportTwo-FullReport.pdf.

" Daisy Fancourt and Saoirse Finn, What Is the Evidence on the Role of the Arts in Improving Health and Well­
Being? A Scoping Review, WHO Health Evidence Network Synthesis Reports (WHO Regional Office for Europe,
2019), http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.qov/books/NBI<553773/.

 House of Representatives Standing Committee on Communications and the Arts, “Sculpting a National Cultural
Plan: Igniting a Post-COVID Economy for the Arts” (Canberra: Commonwealth of Australia, October 2021), 95,
https://www.aph.qov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/House/Communications/Arts/Report.

iv House of Representatives Standing Committee on Communications and the Arts, “Sculpting a National Cultural
Plan.”

"Office for the Arts, “Submission on Australia’s Creative and Cultural Industries and Institutions” (House of
Representatives Standing Committee on Communications and the Arts, October 2020), 24,
https://www.aph.qov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=893d5a4e-6a97-424a-9ebd-4a3O3b6fa882&subld=695135.

vi Bureau of Communication and Arts Research, “Characteristics of Employment and Business Activity in Cultural
and Creative Sectors—Fact Sheet,” July 2020,4,
https://www.infrastructure.qov.au/sites/default/files/characteristics-of-employment-and-business-activity-in-
cultural-and-creative-sectors O.pdf.

vii House of Representatives Standing Committee on Communications and the Arts, “Sculpting a National Cultural
Plan,” 90.

viii Bureau of Communication and Arts Research, “Characteristics of Employment and Business Activity in
Cultural and Creative Sectors—Fact Sheet,” 3.

ix Geoff Gilfillan, “Recent and Long-Term Trends in the Use of Casual Employment,” Research Paper Series,
2021-22, November 24,2021,
https://www.aph.qov.au/About Parliament/Parliamentary departments/Parliamentary Library/pubs/rp/rp2122
/TrendsCasualEmployment.

xThe House Inquiry concluded in 2021 that‘comprehensive data on howthis wider cultural and creative cohort
has been affected by the pandemic is unclear’. House of Representatives Standing Committee on
Communications and the Arts, “Sculpting a National Cultural Plan,” 95.

xi Kate Fielding, Angela Vivian, and Sari Rossi, “To Scale: Mapping Financial Inflows in Australian Arts, Culture
and Creativity,” Insight Report (Canberra: A New Approach, 2023), 19, https://newapproach.orq.au/wp-
content/uploads/2O23/O8/ANA-64O88-To-Scale-Report Combined AW.pdf.



                                                                                                                    3
