Introduction
I had been workin^^r^nalvs^n^application specialist for NSW e-Health for four years followed
by four years at                         hospital in Sydney. In February of 2020 I was drafted onto
the COVID                   it   ^■whichwas one of the primary facilities for dealing with COVID
throughout the pandemic. The                 initially met every few days and then every day to receive
updates and guidance on assignments and measures for dealing with the expected pandemic



Use of Aged Care Facilities
At one of the early^^^^^^ meetings in February 2020, one member of the^^^^H                 asked what
would be happen to ambulant COVID patients in regards to isolation and ensuring the expected flood
of COVID patients would not overwhelm the hospital. The Chief Information Officer (CIO) responded
that ambulant patients would be "put into aged care facilities" so as not to overwhelm hospital beds
which would be required for more severe patients.

It later transpired that the vast majority of the 909 people who died in 2020 with a positive COVID test
had died in aged-care facilities, mostly in Victoria and there were initial outbreaks in NSW aged-care
facilities (see Appendix A). I am not sure whether any ambulant COVID patients were put into aged
care facilities and these questions must be raised by this Inquiry.



The PCR Test
One of my first tasks was to assist in the workflow and design of the COVID PCR test reporting system.
If a person had undergone a COVID test and was negative they received a text message if they were
positive they received a phone call. Our team had to send daily reports to the call centre of the PCR
test results. In the first weeks when the PCR test was rolled out an issue arose where some people
who had undergone multiple tests over a period of days were recording unusual results. For example,
a person would have three or four tests over a period of 10 days and the results would show both
negative and positive results (see Appendix B). This was a problem because we could not send a text
one day telling someone they were negative and then call them another day saying they were positive,
then send them a text the following day saying they were negative. I analysed tens of thousands of
test results and concluded that the PCR test was highly inaccurate. Over 80% of people with multiple
test results showed these anomalies. A colleague checked the records of these people and they were
not admitted or were not showing any symptoms. This did not include the people who we're already
admitted to the hospital for other issues who were being tested multiple times whilst they remained
in hospital. I reported my results to my manager who responded by thanking me but I later learned
that no action was taken and no review of the test results have been made. This was a serious breach
of protocols and testing efficacy.

In essence nobody had undertaken to ensure that the PCR test was accurate and that false positives
or false negatives where at an absolute minimum. I later learned from several other sources overseas
that the PCR test was very inaccurate, and medical professionals and doctors had estimated that it
was over 90% inaccurate and that the cycle threshold was too high and that the test itself (the so-
called "Drosten Test") was not even based on the genomic sequence uploaded to the international
database boy Chinese authorities in January of 2020. It was also noted that the late inventor of the
PCR test, Dr               had himself stated that the PCR test should not be used for diagnostic
purposes.

There are several questions that need to be raised with the relevant health authorities in Australia.
1. Why was the COVID PCR test not certified or verified by anyone in Australia?
2. Why was no due diligence done on the test and the results it was producing?
3. Why was it never explained to people that the test was highly inaccurate and that positive results
we're not signifying actual sickness or that the person actually had COVID?


Given that this pandemic was primarily driven by reporting on the number of people who were
supposedly infected through this inaccurate test and that daily case numbers were reported on daily
by Chief Health Officers and plastered on TV screens, the importance of the PCR test in the pandemic
cannot be overstated. Lockdowns and other draconian policies were based on the ebb and flow of
case numbers from a PCR test that was not fit for purpose. Was this a pandemic or a "case-demic"?
That this faulty PCR test is still being used today despite the overwhelming evidence that it is
inadequate is shocking.

Recommendations

    •   The COVID PCR test must be immediately withdrawn from use and a full review performed by
        independent and Government epidemiologists and pathologists.
    •   A mandated standard operation procedure that any test for any disease or virus must be
        thoroughly verified for accuracy and efficacy by independent and Government pathology
        laboratories before being deployed for use publicly.
    •   The data (de-identified) regarding COVID tests, hospitalisations, symptoms, deaths and any
        other relevant measurements should be made public and analysed by independent and
        Government researchers.



PPE and Mask Purchasing and Disposal
In July of 2020 staff at RPA received a memo from the Chief Executive stating that:




It also stated that:




Initially PPE had been hard to source and RPA had ordered vast quantities of PPE at considerable
expense. So much PPE was ordered that it began to overflow and filled up not just the regular storage
space but also several shipping containers at the back of the hospital that were used to store PPE. This
was largely because the expected number of people admitted for COVID was very low, the hospital
was virtually empty for most of 2020 and very little PPE was actually used.

I noticed that the 3M masks, that the memo claimed were expiring, actually had an expiry date of
2025, not 2020 (see Appendix C).
The new N95 masks were being supplied          a Chinese electric vehicle and battery company that
had never previously made any medical equipment. These new masks were purchased by hospitals all
over the country and in other places around the world. Billion-dollar deals were made to purchase
these masks from

^|is part owned by China an                                                   and
The share price of^^HskyrocI                           . It later transpired that
not fit for purpose and staff complained about them.

Millions of dollars of masks were either thrown away or given away and in just one state (NSW) $778
million was wasted (https://www.spectator.com.au/2022/02/7778-million-wasted-by-nsw-health/ ).

Recommendations

This Inquiry should discover the who, why and what behind this fiasco. Who gave the order to dispose
of perfectly adequate PPE and hand over hundreds of millions to ^^|Why was this done? This was
clearly a decision made at the Federal level and fed down to the States. What are the Government
connections to HR* This incident screams of corruption and insider dealings and put healthcare staff
at risk because of the poor quality of the^Hmasks.
