Submission for COVID Inquiry

I am a retired Medical Practitioner, and did a lot of private research and gathering of information as soon as a
"Pandemic" was announced. This led me to believe that right from the start the response was inappropriate.



I consider this Inquiry to be totally inadequate.

Without including State and Territory decisions you cannot properly assess the response.



I live in Victoria, and we were subjected to the most severe lockdowns and restrictions anywhere in the world.

This led to untold pain and suffering to the entire community.

We know that the suicide rate increased enormously, but where was this most serious effect of the extreme measures
ever addressed ???? .... Nowhere.



The "Vaccine" and mask mandates were unsupported by true Science yet our Government forged ahead with strict
enforcing of these.



The employment of lockdowns of healthy people was nonsensical. Never before in the history of the world have healthy
people been locked down. Instead the priority should be to protect the vulnerable and isolate the sick.



Following the Freedom Of Information release of the ^^^"t ria I" documents it became evident that it was well known
before the rollout that these injections were neither safe nor effective. Yet a blind eye has been turned to this important
information. What was widely reported as 95% effective was a misrepresentation of the data. The actual effectiveness
was below 1%. The potential side effects were also well known from this study, yet this information was withheld from
the general public.



The whole campaign was based on fear mongering, led by the mainstream media.

This fear was used to entice people into taking the experimental injection.



The details of the contracts between Governments and Pharmaceutical companies were never made public. Why was
this ? Could there have been something to hide ?????



To be taken seriously, a full and comprehensive Inquiry needs to be held. Don't waste time and money on this "sham" of
an Inquiry.
