                                          Lived
                                          Experience
                                          AUSTRALIA




Commonwealth Government COVID-19
       Response Inquiry
            15th December 2023



                  Submitted to:

           The Independent Panel
          Appointed by PM Albanese
          COVID-19lnquiry(a),pmc.gov.au




                                          Lived Experience Australia Ltd
                                                  Contact: Sharon Lawn
                                              Chair & Executive Director

                                           RO Box 98, Brighton SA 5048
                                                  Phone
                                                  ABN: 44 613 210 889
Contents
Introduction................................................................................................................................................................. 3
Purpose and Scope of this Inquiry............................................................................................................................. 3
Our Response..............................................................................................................................................................3
Contact........................................................................................................................................................................ 6
References................................................................................................................................................................... 6




                                                                                                                                                                      Page 2 of 6
                                                                                                                                                    Lived Experience Australia Ltd
Introduct )n

Lived Experience Australia Ltd (LEA) is a national representative organisation for Australian mental health
consumers and carers, families and kin, formed in 2002. Our 'friends' include more than 6000 people with
lived experience of mental health concerns, including suicide and suicidality, across Australia. We recognise
that some of our 'friends' network includes veterans and their families. All members of our Board and staff
have mental health lived experience as either a consumer, family carer or both. This is core to our advocacy,
recognising that the impacts of policy and practice are felt not only by individuals, but also by families and
whole communities.

Our core business is to advocate for effective policies and systemic change to improve mental health care,
services and support across the whole Australian health and social care system, including within State and
Territory jurisdictions.

We welcome the opportunity to provide our feedback to this crucially important national issue.


Purpose and Scope of this Inqu ry
The purpose of the Inquiry is to identify lessons learned to improve Australia's preparedness for future
pandemics. The Inquiry will review the Commonwealth Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic
and make recommendations to improve response measures in the event of future pandemics, to more
effectively anticipate, adapt and respond to pandemics.


Our Response
Our submission and evidence most relates to 'Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs
of particular populations' within the Inquiry's terms of reference. We wish to focus on the experiences and
needs of three distinct populations within this submission:

     1.       People with complex mental health conditions and/or psychosocial disability, in general
     2.   People with complex mental health conditions and/or psychosocial disability, in particular, who
          reside in supported residential facilities in the community (otherwise known as hostels).
     3.       Family, carers and kin of people with mental health conditions.

People with complex mental health conditions and/or psychosocial disability

In October 2022, our submission to the Inquiry into Long COVID and Repeated COVID Infections highlighted
our concerns that people in this population group are less likely to be asked about COVID vaccination,
physical health concerns related to COVID more broadly, and also asked and have impacts of Long COVID
detected and addressed. We argued that there are likely 3 key reasons for this:

 •   Systems of care that hold fatalistic attitudes towards people with mental health conditions about their
     physical health, particular people with more severe mental health conditions like schizophrenia.
 •   Diagnostic overshadowing whereby people's physical health concerns and help-seeking for those
     concerns are overlooked and dismissed, with primacy of focus on mental health clinical symptoms and
     their treatment with psychiatric medications.
 •   Discrimination and stigma toward this population about their capacity to understand their health, have
     health literacy and be able to improve their health and quality of life.

Our survey of 512 consumers and carers from across Australia1 found that they have high rates of COVID
vaccination, but a significant minority are not asked about their vaccination status by their GP, nor about
their physical health, including screenings for detection and monitoring of several major chronic conditions
and risk factors, and immunisations, generally.




                                                                                                              Page 3 of 6
                                                                                            Lived Experience Australia Ltd
Recommendation: Consistent, national guidelines for primary care and other health professionals must
acknowledge this population within a framework that addresses the potential for overt and covert forms
of discrimination on the basis of mental health.


People with complex mental health conditions and/or psychosocial disability who reside in
supported residential facilities (SRFs)

In 2020, we raised concerns with the South Australia Office of the Chief Psychiatrist, The SA Health Minister
and the SA Attorney General's Department about the COVID-19 Emergency Response Act 2020 - Schedule
1 [2], I was the lead SA Mental Health Commission during 2020-2021. LEA also raised this situation in
December 2020 in our later submission to Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation
of People with Disability. We were aware that similar measures were in place in other jurisdictions, though
concern from within the states/territories and national advocacy sector was largely silent, despite evidence
of clear human rights concerns.

The SA COVID Emergency Response Act was enacted in April 2020 in response to concerns about COVID-19
and compliance with social distancing by residents of Supported Residential Facilities (SRFs). It put in place
measures to restrict an individual's movements where there is a clear risk that they may contract or
contribute to the spread of COVID-19.

Evidence of need for the Act was largely absent. In my discussions with the Public Advocate, she explained
that the legislation was enacted because the Crown Solicitor was concerned that people not be detained
unlawfully; that the legislation was primarily a preventative measure. This response seemed completely
disproportionate when compared with the response to other sectors of the community. It also seemed
completely disproportionate when compared with the evidence of need. My understanding was that there
have been only 2 occasions where the COVID Act was used and these occurred quite early in 2020. One
instance related to a resident of a RACF with behavioural issues wandering with no clothes on, which may
have been unrelated to any concern about COVID, and the other instance involved a person in an SRF
where staff struggled to prevent the person from going out, despite their efforts.

For brevity, I have summarised a range of other more specific concerns below:

1.    The COVID Emergency Response Act was enacted with no apparent consultation with the mental
      health sector, despite many people with significant psychosocial disability being residents in SRFs.
      The Chief Psychiatrist, the Mental Health Commissioners, and advocates for people with mental
      health conditions were not consulted. Their views would have provided valuable insights.

2.    The Act was not aligned with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities;
      nor was it clear how it aligned with SRF regulations and policies regarding use of restraint, or NDIS
      policies.

3.    Features of the Act appeared to be far too 'loose' and open to potential abuse of power by SRF
      providers or delegated others. There also appeared to be very little in terms of procedural safeguards
      and arrangements for effective oversight to ensure that residents were protected from improper or
      unjust exercise of these powers that have the effect of interfering with fundamental human rights.
      This was of particular concern for SRF residents who were most at risk of abuse, neglect, violence and
      exploitation without sufficient safeguarding and monitoring of the use of this mechanism. These
      same people do not have equitable access by way of their disability to complaints and other
      mechanisms on which the legislation relies to allow recourse for individuals.

4.    Features of the Act offered no real or timely mechanism for appeal. In terms of review of decisions, I
      note that an application must be made within 7 days. This short time limitation rarely protected a
      person and often worked against their interests, e scheduling of review being so far ahead that the
      appeal process was noted as meaningless anyway.

5.    The power to detain persons in the SRFs was conferred without adequate safeguards. This posed a
      significant risk that residents will be detained arbitrarily, which constituted a violation of rights and
      liberties protected under human rights law. Similarly, while the legislation talked about external


                                                                                                                 Page 4 of 6
                                                                                               Lived Experience Australia Ltd
          oversight from the Community Visitor, I understand the Community Visitor was not authorised to
          enter a person's place of residence.

6.        The legislation appeared to enable persons without any medical training (or any training) to
          determine mental incapacity and, more concerningly, to physical detail and restrain SRF residents to
          their rooms. Schedule 1, Clause 11 allowed person(s) in charge of an SRF, or a manager of the service
          provider organisation to be known as the prescribed person to seek approval for the temporary
          detention (restriction of movement) of a protected person up to 28 days. The level of power the
          legislation afforded the prescribed person and lack of oversight in how powers were used, was also
          concerning. A level of independent oversight was needed.

Overall, the response within SRFs appears to have been one largely of containment, with little attention to
the mental health and wellbeing impacts for residents and staff. These facilities arguably are home for
people who are among the most marginalised, isolated and disconnected from community despite SRFs
being 'in the community'; however, there was virtually no direct support for their mental health and
wellbeing needs during COVID, or increased resourcing to support the care needs arising from COVID within
these settings.

Underlying the response, as enabled by the COVID Act, seemed to be a range of assumptions about the
capacity of people who live in SRFs to understand health information, follow rules, make decisions about
their behaviours, and so forth. Justifications for the COVID Act appear to assume that they had no capacity
at all. This is simply not the case. There are many people in the community who we could argue have
varying degrees of capacity to follow rules and make correct decisions, yet they were not subjected to the
level of response and threat of restrictive practices imposed on SRF residents. For many people who live in
institutionalised settings like SRFs, the right to make basic decisions, to express choices about what one
wears, eats, watches on TV, etc is already severely restricted.

Recommendation: Hence, we urge the Independent Panel to consider our Australia's responsibilities as
signature to the CRPD are considered in the event of future pandemic events. Stigma and discrimination
emerge quickly during crises, and the assumptions made about the SRF population saw some of the
worse elements of this being legitimised.

Family, carers and kin of people with mental health conditions

LEA had the pleasure of being a key collaborator on a research project by exploring the experiences of
mental health carers during the COVID-19 pandemic: 'Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-
19 in Australia'. The research was conducted by Associate Professor Melissa Petrakis and Caroline Walters
from the SWITCH Research Group at Monash University, in collaboration with the National Mental Health
Consumer Carer Forum (NMHCCF). As a member of the National Mental Health Consumer and Carer
Forum, LEA's Executive Director was on the Steering Committee and provided facilitation to some of the
data collection and analysis, review of report and publications, and delivery of the presentation of findings
to the sector and community. The project was funded by National Mental Health Commission. The SWITCH
research team recently won a national award for its collaborative work on this project.

This research made a number of recommendations to Government to address the needs of mental health
carers during events like the COVID pandemic, should they recur. These are summarised below, with
further detail available in the report [3],

Recommendations:

In the short-term, the Australian Government:

     1.     Review practices in inpatient and other clinical settings to ensure family inclusion and partnership
            in supporting people with mental health challenges.

     2.     Fund the creation of carer peer navigator roles - providing information and support - across
            inpatient and community services for families, carers and supporters.




                                                                                                                  Page 5 of 6
                                                                                                Lived Experience Australia Ltd
   3.    Prioritise the creation of carer on-call roles, accessible via local and regional mental health triage
         services, to respond to crises experienced by families.

   4.    Fund available and responsive mental health carer respite to ensure carer workload does not
         overwhelm family members so they are able to remain in paid work.

   5.    Respond to current and future major disasters (pandemics, fires, floods, and drought), and create
         local and regional mobile centres for family assistance.

In the long-term, the Australian Government:

   1.    Fund diverse modalities of consultations and therapeutic interventions to enable mental health
         consumer and carer choice, inclusive of but not defaulting to teleHealth.

   2.    Recognise the risk inherent in providing long-term and acute mental health care on carers, and
         establish domestic violence services tailored and responsive to family members experiencing acute
         and/or cumulative risk and violence.

   3.    Recognise the impact of providing long-term and acute mental health care on the psychosocial
         wellbeing of carers, and establish suicide prevention services responsive to family members
         experiencing acute and/or cumulative stress and distress.

   4.    Establish funded family-carer collaborative hubs to foster, mentor and disseminate family
         leadership in service redesign, evaluation and research.

   5.    Provide national guidance and co-ordination for innovation across all states in administration and
         guardianship as it relates to mental health carers concerned about the safety of loved ones in their
         absence or upon their death.


Contact

We thank the Independent Panel for the opportunity to put our views forward. We wish you well
with the next steps and would be keen to contribute our lived experience perspectives to any future
discussions about this important topic.



Your sincerely

Sfiawn£awn
 Professor Sharon Lawn
 Lived Experience Australia Ltd
 Executive Director
 Email:
 Mobile:




References
    1.   Kaine, C., Lawn, S., Roberts, R., Cobb, L., & Erskine, V. (2022) Review of Physical and Mental Health
          Care in Australia, Lived Experience Australia Ltd: Marden, South Australia, Australia.
          https://www.livedexperienceaustralia.com.au/physical-health-research
    2.         SA COVID-19 Emergency Response Act 2020 - Schedule 1.
          https://www.legi5lation.sa.gov.au/lz?path=%2FC%2FR%2FCOVID-
          19%20Emergency%20Response%20(Schedule%201)%20Regulations%202020
    3.         Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19 in Australia. https:/7nmhccf.org.au/'our-
          work/discussion-papers/report-mental-health-family-carer-experiences-of-covid-19-in-australia


                                                                                                                  Page 6 of 6
                                                                                                Lived Experience Australia Ltd
