Dear Independent Panel,

My name is Stephane, I am an Australian citizen who migrated from Switzerland eight years
ago. I live in             I would like to thank you for the opportunity to make a
submission and raise my views and experiences about the Government’s COVID-19
response.

I hope that the inquiry focuses on pandemic prevention. More than any other global
catastrophic risk, we are able to prevent novel pathogens from emerging and to identify and
eliminate them if they do. Given the huge human and economic costs of pandemics - and
that pandemics worse than COVID-19 are possible - prevention should be our top priority.

The paper “The costs and benefits of primary prevention of zoonotic pandemics” (Bertstein
2022) makes the economic case for a focus on pandemic prevention. The paper shows that
- even on pessimistic assumptions and without considering the potential impact of emerging
technologies - significant investment in pandemic prevention is overwhelmingly justified.

In light of that analysis, the new Australian Centre for Disease Control should focus on
efforts to prevent novel pathogens from emerging and being able to control them if they do.

   1.      Engineered pandemics are a significant risk and could be accelerated by advances in AL

The Inquiry’s terms of reference include preventative health measures. The best
preventative health measure is likely to be preventing pandemics from occurring. To do this
most effectively, we need to have a good understanding of how pandemics might begin.

Historically, zoonoses have been the leading cause of pandemics. This is a significant risk
that government policy should address. Looking forward, Gopal et al in “Securing Civilisation
Against Catastrophic Pandemics” use a range of tools to estimate the likelihood of different
future pandemic scenarios. Their estimates show that dangerous pathogens leaking from
labs have likely surpassed zoonoses as the key risk. Even more worryingly, they argue that
maliciously engineered pandemics could become the overriding risk unless action is taken.

The reason engineered pandemics have become a critical public health concern is rapid
progress in biotechnology and the rise of “dual-use” Al products.

“Dual-use risks” refers to the risks generated by Ais intended to perform useful tasks if used
by malicious actors. Specifically, biotechnology applications using artificial intelligence have
capabilities that could amplify the ability of terrorists to harm Australians.

The US is taking dual-use risks seriously. On 25 July 2023, the US Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law took evidence about the potential risks of
Al from Dario Amodei (CEO of Anthropic), Yoshua Bengio (Turing Award winner and the
second-most cited Al researcher in the world), and Stuart Russell (Professor of Computer
Science at Berkeley).

Committee Chair, Senator Blumenthal began the hearing by highlighting these “dual-use”
risks:
       The future is not science fiction or fantasy — it’s not even the future, it’s here and
       now. And a number of you [Amodei, Bengio and Russell] have put the timeline at 2
       years before we see some of the most severe biological dangers. It may be shorter
       because the pace of development is not only stunningly fast, it is also accelerating at
       a stunning pace.

The hearings painted a concerning picture where frontier models will soon have the ability to
combine with advances in biotechnology to supercharge the ability of malicious actors to do
harm. Dario Amdodei, CEO of Anthropic, agreed with these concerns and called on
Government to take action:

       Anthropic is concerned that Al could empower a much larger set of actors to misuse
       biology... Today, certain steps in bioweapons production involve knowledge that can’t
       be found on Google or in textbooks... We found that today’s Al tools can fill in some
       of these steps... a straightforward extrapolation of today’s systems to those we
       expect to see in 2 to 3 years suggests a substantial risk that Al systems will be able
       to fill in all the missing pieces, enabling many more actors to carry out large-scale
       biological attacks...

       We have instituted mitigations against these risks in our own deployed models,
       briefed a number of US government officials—all of whom found the results
       disquieting, and are piloting a responsible disclosure process with other Al
       companies to share information on this and similar risks. However, private action is
       not enough—this risk and many others like it requires a systemic policy response.

In response to these hearings, on 30 October 2023, President Biden made an executive
order that does two main things. First, it put a timeline on US agencies to develop a
framework to ensure the proper screening of synthetic DNA. With or without the additional
risks of Al, synthetic DNA is likely the essential input that any malicious or negligent actor
would need to engineer a pandemic. Second, it put a range of requirements on Al labs
designed to ensure future Al models don’t have these “dual-use risks” that could contribute
to a future pandemic.

While I appreciate that this issue may feel outside the scope of a preventative public health
measure - the same was said of clean drinking water, the work of Florence Nightingale or
many other advances in public health that came from leaders realising that a vast range of
social and technological factors feed into public health. Indeed, the history of innovation in
public health is a history of tackling cutting-edge problems that others neglected. Al and
synthetic biology are today’s versions of those historic problems.

   2. Indoor Air Quality could make a big difference, including emerging tech such as far
      UV-C

I believe that the Australian government should create clear codes of practice and standards
for Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and introduce regulations for high-risk spaces. Every year,
Australians fall ill as a result of exposure to airborne pathogens in indoor environments.
Some of the most vulnerable members of our community, the elderly and
immunocompromised, are particularly exposed to this risk. Better controls on IAQ would not
only help protect us against current and future pandemics, but they can also reduce the
negative health outcomes caused by other hazards like indoor smog, toxic materials,
non-pandemic respiratory diseases, and other known airborne health hazards.

Despite Australians spending at least 90% of their time indoors, the Australian Department
of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water highlights that Australia has no
specific controls on IAQ aside from the limited control specified by Work Safe Australia.
Without nationalised standards and codes specifying minimum performance requirements
for infection control, I worry that the nation will default to ineffective interventions that provide
little protection against pathogens.

Clear and effective codes of practice and standards for IAQ Australia would provide clear
metrics and targets for air quality with the goal to reduce pathogen transmission. Without
clear metrics and targets, I worry that manufacturers and innovators will create products that
are ineffective at cleaning indoor air to suitable levels to reduce pathogen transmission.
Evidence-based standards for IAQ which are informed by the latest scientific research into
respiratory disease, air filtration and sanitation, public health, and behavioural science would
provide the correct regulatory environment to ensure effective IAQ interventions are
available to the Australian public. Additionally, clear requirements should be specified for
high-risk environments in which airborne infections are potentially life threatening such as in
aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities, and other facilities caring for the
immunocompromised. The Lancet COVID-19 Commission Task Force has proposed
Non-infectious Air Delivery Rates (NADR) so we now have measurable goals for ventilation
and filtration targets that protect against infectious disease transmission. The Task Force
highlights that, while there is ongoing scientific debate over what metrics and targets are
optimal, there is agreement that current practices are insufficient. I recommend that the
Inquiry read the report to gain a better understanding of the considerations in setting
effective codes and standards for IAQ

IAQ codes and standards could be defined by the Australian Building Codes Board (ABCB)
in the National Construction Code. The ABCB could draw on the expertise of the Australian
Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care and the Australasian Health Infrastructure
Alliance (AHIA), as well as the existing IAQ work done by the ABCB. ASHRAE Standard
241, Control of Infectious Aerosols may also be helpful in informing codes and standards.

I believe that clearer codes of practice and standards for IAQ can help safeguard all
Australians against airborne pathogens in indoor environments. With the right regulatory
environment we can reduce the spread of pathogens, reduce the burden on our public health
system, and safeguard the most vulnerable members of our community.

Since ancient times, the scope of public health has been increasing. Contemporaries would
have thought that lenses in microscopes, the design of sewers, citrus on ships or a hundred
other things had little to do with public health. However, expanding the scope of public health
to include emerging issues and new technologies has directly led to substantially better
outcomes. This inquiry is a chance to put new and emerging topics at the forefront of how
we think about pandemics. Whether it's harnessing the benefits of metagenomic sequencing
or addressing the risks of Al - I think it’s essential that this Inquiry look to the risks and
opportunities of the future.
