14 December 2023

The Secretary
Legal and Constitutional Affairs References Committee
Parliament House
Canberra ACT
2600 Australia



Subject: Submission to the Terms of Reference Inquiry for the Covid-19 Royal Commission


Dear Committee Members,


I am an Australian citizen who is concerned about the extensive loss of freedoms we
suffered during the Covid-19 response. Please find below my submission to this inquiry.



Vaccine Mandate versus Individual Freedom

Before the Covid vaccine was mandated, I was working as a doctor in a Western Australian
hospital. I declined to take the Covid-19 vaccine, because I did not believe this injection was
safe, nor did I believe it would benefit me. Because of this personal medical decision,

                                        This caused significant financial loss and emotional
stress to me and my family, which we are now trying to recover from. Even now I am still
unable to work at the hospital I was originally working at, due to^^^^^^^^fsti 11 having a
vaccine mandate in place.

Regardless of the product's safety or efficacy, I believe it is never up to a government or
employer to determine what is to be injected into someone's body. The federal government
could have done more to prevent state governments and corporations from implementing
vaccine mandates. A Royal Commission needs to look at the ethical and legal aspects of
these mandates, bearing in mind the Nuremberg Code and the fact that, according to the
Australian Immunisation Handbook, coercion invalidates consent. The government also
needs to ensure that appropriate laws are in place to protect individual people's freedoms
and bodily autonomy.



AHPRA's Interference in the Doctor - Patient Relationship

Months before the mandate took effect,
Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA), outlining its position statement on Covid-19
vaccination. In this statement, AHPRA threatened to take action against any health
professional who did not support the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out.
My work at this time involved seeing a lot of pregnant women. My boss told me that if I did
not recommend the Covid vaccine to these patients, he would have to report me to AHPRA
for professional misconduct! Yet, there was no evidence that this injection was safe in
pregnancy. My boss never reported me, as I was stood down soon after this conversation.
However, I do know of colleagues who lost their medical registration for speaking up against
the government's narrative, though they never harmed a single patient.

AHPRA's position statement resulted in doctors being afraid to speak out about their
concerns regarding the vaccine, and in vaccine side-effects being underreported. Moreover,
it undermined the trust Australians once had in doctors. Medicine was now being reduced to
parroting the government's official health advice, rather than doctors using their
professional expertise tailored to an individual patient's situation. It will be difficult for the
medical profession to recover from this loss of trust.

An independent investigation needs to be conducted into the role of AHPRA, and whether it
is ethical for this agency, on behalf of the government, to dictate to doctors what they can
and can't advise their patients. The doctor - patient relationship is sacrosanct. When
punitive measures are taking against doctors who follow their clinical judgement rather than
the government's narrative, open discourse is stifled. Medicine is then based on dogma
rather than science.



Transparency about Financial Conflicts of Interest

In September 2021, I was gravely concerned to learn that the Therapeutic Goods
Administration (TGA) had banned medical practitioners from prescribing the drug Ivermectin
for Covid-19. This drug had been shown to be effective in the early treatment of Covid-19,
was inexpensive and had an excellent safety record. The fact that this medicine had now
been made unavailable to the Australian public gave me the distinct impression that the
TGA's - and by implication the government's - primary concern was to push the vaccine,
rather than to get people healthy.

A Royal Commission needs to investigate whether the TGA banned Ivermectin because of a
financial conflict of interest, rather than in the public's best interest. If inexpensive, effective
medication was available to treat Covid-19, then the vaccine would not get approval, so the
pharmaceutical industry stood to lose by the availability of Ivermectin. A thorough,
independent investigation needs to be conducted into who funds the TGA, and specifically
into the extent to which the TGA is funded by the pharmaceutical industry. Conflicts of
interest need to be clearly exposed.



Other Concerns

Insufficient time remains for me to detail other issues which need your consideration. I have
listed some other concerns below:
The role of mainstream media: There needs to be an independent investigation into the
financial incentives received by media corporations to only report the government
perspective and to censor all other points of view.

Excess mortality rates: The Royal Commission needs to investigate the cause of the
increased excess mortality coinciding in time with the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out.

Mask mandates: There needs to be an independent inquiry into the harms v the benefits of
wearing masks.

Border closures: Australians have the right to enter their own country and to travel around
freely. There needs to be an independent investigation into the legality of border closures
and into the severe harm and distress which they caused to individuals and the economy.

Privacy issues: Demanding that people scan in or write down personal details to be allowed
to enter shops and other facilities is a breach of privacy. Also, vaccination status should be
confidential. An inquiry is needed into the loss of Australians' right to privacy.


Many thanks for your consideration of my submission.



Kind regards,


Dr Anonymous
