Submission to COVID-19 investigation
Prepared 15th December 2023

The issue of pandemic response is clearly a major problem for politicians and health
officials at present, but better decisions can be made by starting with a few basic
scientific steps.
A starting point is that No “pandemic” should be declared unless the following are
followed:
   1. The purported virus has been correctly isolated by a reasonable number of
      highly qualified independent testing organisations.
   2. The isolated virus is then proven to infect other people via natural processes,
      e.g. breathing in the virus in the naturally occurring concentrations. Proof by
      inserting the virus into cells in the lab (invitro) is not acceptable as it is not the
      natural process of supposed infection
   3. Any virus testing methods (e.g. PCR, anti-body, etc.) must be created only
      once the previous processes are successfully completed and the testing
      processes must be rigorously verified by a number of independent
      laboratories against the isolated virus and infected people with confirmed
      symptoms, i.e. not asymptomatic people as there is no scientific proof that a
      condition exists.
   4. No medical procedures, or public health policies to prevent the spread of the
      disease, or remedy the disease should be recommended, or attempted until
      the above processes are completed successfully.
Failure to follow this type of rigor will result in health officials making erroneous
policies in relation to stopping the supposed spread of the disease, as they did
repeatedly without success during the COVID period.



All of the above can be explained in great detail by many experts in the area, but as
^orBa^tartin^oint I would highly recommend you talk to^^^^Hand^^^^^^l
                    they have written acclaimed books and articles on these subjects
and they have produced over 100 short educational videos with over 20 million views
on these subjects and many other related health areas.
After spending the last few years reviewing their information I am absolutely
convinced that if you contact^^^^^^^^ and get her and her team to talk to
Australian politicians and health officials your ability to understand the science and
thus decide on appropriate responses to health issues would be significantly
improved.

Their contact details are:

Website:
Email:
