Dear Inquiry Panel,

I would like answers to the following questions regarding the covid debacle please-

Why were ‘lockdowns’ implemented that were not necessary? Particularly in view of the fact that
this measure was never considered part of the well established govt pandemic policy protocol,
mainly because it is idiotic to lock up healthy people in their own homes. Traditionally, sick people
self isolate anyway.

Why were novel/gene therapy injections, erroneously called vaccines, pushed onto the public
when existing therapies for the treatment of viruses like ivermectin already existed? Why did the
govt and medical organisations ban these treatments when they knew they were saving lives
overseas?

Why was the public not told that the covid injections are in fact gene therapies and not remotely
like traditional vaccines?

Why did the govt allow these GMO covid injectables to be used on the public without first gaining
permission from the Australian Gene Regulator?

Why did the govt, falsely state that the injectables are ‘safe and effective’ when they knew, or
should have known, that they are anything but based on Pfizer’s own documentation?

Why did the govt and its media mouthpieces state that the covid injections would give a ‘95% risk
reduction rate’ and keep people out of hospital when they knew from the Pfizer documents that
they had less than one percent of reducing risk of infection and hospitalisation?

Why did the govt deliberately ignore the Nuremberg Code, to which it is a signatory, The Helsinki
Declaration and the UN Charter of Human Rights to coerce the population to take an experiment
that was clearly in breach of these codes?

Why did the govt and media catastrophise covid 19 when it was downgraded to ‘seasonal flu’ in
2020 and never, ever, met the criteria of a pandemic? Why did the govt not calm peoples fears
instead? As many doctors and scientists worldwide have stated ‘nobody would have known there
was a pandemic if they hadn’t been terrorised by their govts’.

Why were masks forced onto people when there is no credible evidence that they work? There are
many worldwide studies that show masks don’t work and make the wearer worse off because
they can’t breathe properly and that they trap viruses and bacteria inside them. The Australian
govt knew this and as such states in their pandemic policies that masks are unnecessary. Quick
research on the subject demonstrates that wearing a mask has the equivalent effectiveness of
flies flying through chicken wire. Why were dissenting voices from doctors and scientists on this
issue ignored?

Why did the relevant medical bodies sack doctors who refused to take the vaccine and submit to
the govt narrative that the covid injections were safe or that they were needed. Why did the govt
direct physicians to push the vaccines onto a trusting public and financially incentivise them for
doing so?

Why was the protocol of ‘Informed Consent’ not followed? To partake in a medical experiment the
person needs ‘full and informed consent’ in writing which should be outlined to them by the
person performing the experiment, which, in most cases was their doctor or nurse. The pamphlet
inside the covid injection box was blank instead of showing the known risks to the therapy.

Why did the govt not disclose the many side effects of the covid injections? By Pfizer’s own
documentation there are over 2,500 side effects. Why did we need a novel ‘vaccine’ when the
serious risks to health from them had already been established and published by the
manufacturer? Why did the Australian govt not stop the covid vaccines from being introduced
here when it was obvious from overseas data beforehand that they were injuring people?
Why has the govt not offered adequate help to the vaccine injured? Why has the govt ignored
helpful advise from treating doctors worldwide to implement therapies for their injuries?

Why has the govt not addressed the alarming rise in excess deaths concomitant to the rollout of
the covid vaccines?

There were virtually no excess deaths in 2020 from flu in Australia. Hospitals were not
overwhelmed as the govt stated they would be but they have been since the rollout of the covid
injections. Many nurses verify this and persistent ambulance sirens also verify it. Many, many
people have been injured and a lot of them don’t know that those injuries stem from the vaccines.
Excess deaths are not decelerating and specialists worldwide are now seeing a substantial
increase in clots, stroke, heart attack, neurological problems, sepsis, and now turbo cancers. The
mechanisms causing these and other injuries have already been established by teams of
scientists worldwide. America is shortly releasing a ‘stain test’ which will show where the spike
protein is in the body and therefore causing harm. Autopsies can and do verify that death can be
caused by the spike protein that the body is coded to make after injection.

Why was the PCR test used to determine a covid case when the inventor.^^^^^H, stated quite
clearly that it should never be used to diagnose an illness? It was a lab to<^^^^^Wyou must
know by now, should never have been used past 25 cycles amplification because, as the inventor
told the world, ‘past 25 you’ll find anything’. As I understand it Australia was using a cycle
threshold of 35-45 and that’s why so many covid cases were found. Why did the govt not tell
people that the PCR test cannot distinguish between seasonal flu or covid 19?

Why was advice from many nurses worldwide stating that the nasal PCR test was dangerous to
implement and could, and did, cause serious harm?

And finally, but the worst betrayal of all, injecting pregnant women with an experiment. Doctors
are taught in med school, rightly, to never ever do this, for obvious reasons. In Pfizer’s own
documents from their trials, over 80% of the pregnant participants experienced a miscarriage.
Now we have a situation whereby this is occurring worldwide as well as horrendous reproductive
organ damage. On top of that babies are having heart attacks in the womb and being born with
(expected) deformities and organ damage. If that isn’t bad enough fertility is in substantial decline.
As expressed by specialists worldwide, this damage is being caused by the lab ‘hardened’ spike
protein and endotoxins. Whilst initially discounted, like many other assertions regarding the covid
vaccines, it has now been proven that the genetic code is reverse transcribed into the DNA and
given to offspring.

I join many thousands of others in declaring that the not needed covid policies, including
unnecessary mandates, are the greatest crime ever committed on the human race. Estimates by
well regarded scientists, doctors, statisticians and others around the world currently estimate that
upwards of 17,000,000 people have been killed by these useless ‘vaccines’ and more than a
billion people injured. Disability data in highly vaxxed western countries, particularly America, is
showing an astonishing increase in welfare benefits that need to be paid to those who can no
longer work, particularly the young. Along with that there is now a hundred percent increase in
chemotherapy drugs needed compared to average years.

The Australian govt recklessly bought 10 doses per person. These are not needed, were never
needed, and now they have to be thrown away at incredible expense to the taxpayer. I for one, am
sick of seeing the govt make bad, ill thought out decisions at the taxpayers expense. They treat
us like an ATM machine with no accountability. The perpetrators of the covid malfeasance in this
country need to take responsibility and be charged with crimes against humanity, grievous bodily
harm, recklessly endangering life and malfeasance in office, confirmed by reliable insurance
company data worldwide. Lastly, why was Pfizer and Moderna given blanket immunity from
harms sustained?

I look forward to your reply,
Mrs Karyne Gough
