    *,
            Australian Government
            Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet



                                                     Official




Submission to the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Overview
During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (PM&C) served two
Prime Ministers, supported their Cabinets, supported National Cabinet, and worked across the
Australian Public Service (APS) to ensure that the Commonwealth Government's (Government) response
to COVID-19 was delivered to the highest possible standard.

As global concern about a potential pandemic emerged, PM&C applied its whole-of-government and
whole-of-nation approach to working with stakeholders across the APS, state and territory governments
and international partners to enable the Commonwealth Government to respond quickly to the
emerging health and economic crisis and protect Australians' wellbeing and advance their interests.

Performing this work required a combination of maintaining and scaling up existing functions, activating
existing plans, including those that sit under the Australian Government Crisis Management Framework,
and, where necessary, creating and contributing to new initiatives in response to the pandemic. Key
areas of focus for PM&C included:

    •       Providing whole of government coordination and advice,
    •       Supporting national governance arrangements, and
    •       Ensuring business continuity.

This submission discusses how PM&C carried out these functions and how they might be refined to
better support future Commonwealth pandemic responses.




                                                  OFFICIAL
PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                             1
                                                   OFFICIAL



Providing Whole of Government Coordination and Advice
Throughout the pandemic, PM&C worked to provide advice to the Government and other stakeholders
on the unfolding crisis and associated response.

In the early phase of the response, PM&C reviewed critical functions within the department to realign
priorities and allocations of staff to COVID-19 related activities, while ensuring critical business as usual
functions could continue.

For many existing teams within PM&C this meant incorporating advice on the effects of and responses
to COVID-19 in relation to the policy areas they usually worked on, from welfare payments to energy
security and international agreements. PM&C's longstanding approach of being agile and responsive
to unexpected or urgent tasks meant teams were generally able to adapt well to the increased volumes
of work and utilised their existing skills and relationships to gather and analyse information and provide
a whole-of-government perspective on the pandemic.

PM&C also worked to ensure advice provided to government considered the varied impacts of the
pandemic and responses to it on different community groups and populations. The Office for Women,
for example, provided advice on the gendered impacts of the pandemic and advocated to improve
practical outcomes for women. PM&C also played an important role in bringing together departments,
states and territories and key First Nations leaders to respond quickly to protect the health of First
Nations Australians (for example, by restricting travel to remote communities), and ensuring their
interests were considered in the development of the Government's response.

PM&C also used existing and new interdepartmental structures to enable decision making, as well as
coordinating and implementing the APS' response to the crisis. Bodies such as the Secretaries Board
and the newly established COVID Deputies and Chief Operating Officers Committee held frequent
meetings during the pandemic (often more than twice weekly and at times daily), allowing a range of
policy, governance and coordination issues to be addressed and helping to provide common
messaging, and reinforcing a sense of shared purpose and "one APS".

In addition to maintaining its business-as-usual functions, staff and resources within PM&C were also
urgently redeployed externally to other departments including Services Australia, and within PM&C to
establish COVID-19 specific policy, data, briefing, leadership and crisis management functions. These
functions were stood-up, adapted and refined over the course of the pandemic in order to fill identified
gaps and meet the government's changing needs.




                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                  2
                                                   OFFICIAL



Examples of Specific Functions and New Initiatives


COVID-19 Taskforces

PM&C established the Disaster Preparedness and Response Branch (DPRB) on 3 March 2020 to support
PM&C's early COVID-19 policy coordination and response requirements, restructuring the workforce to
support the Prime Minister's needs and coordinate policy responses across the APS. As these
requirements evolved, the response expanded to become the COVID-19 Taskforce, coordinating whole-
of-PM&C and interagency responses across the APS, providing up to date information to agencies
implementing the Government's response, and ensuring operational responses were coordinated
across the APS.

The COVID Taskforce was wound down in June 2020 but was later re-established as the COVID
Response Taskforce in response to the Melbourne 2021 winter wave of cases. Continuing its work into
2022, the COVID Response Taskforce supported COVID Deputies meetings and drove coherence across
agencies' day-to-day responses to the evolving challenges of the pandemic, including implementation
of the transition plans described below.

A new branch focusing on COVID-19 health related matters was also established in May 2020, allowing
for more direct collaboration and oversight on COVID-19 related issues with the Department of Health
and Aged Care, and for the existing PM&C Health Branch to continue its 'business as usual' work. Prior
to the establishment of the dedicated COVID-19 Health Priorities Branch, COVID-related health advice
was provided through the PMC Health Branch, with supplemented resources including several
additional SES. The branch led the work of briefing the Prime Minister on the health impacts of the
pandemic, along with providing advice on vaccine strategy (including purchasing and delivery),
quarantine arrangements and daily information on health information and data. The branch also led
the coordination of advice within PM&C on all health aspects of the pandemic.

On 5 February 2021, responding to a direction from National Cabinet, PM&C established the COVID-19
Risk Analysis and Response Taskforce (also called the COVID-19 Response Taskforce or the First
Secretaries Group Taskforce) to bring together analysis of economic and health considerations across
the Commonwealth and all state and territory governments and work together to provide
recommendations to the National Cabinet about consistent and coordinated COVID-19 responses. The
COVID-19 Response Taskforce led the development of the National Plan to Transition Australia's
National COVID-19 Response, agreed by National Cabinet in July 2021. The COVID-19 Response
Taskforce completed its work in December 2021.

In late August 2022, a cross-agency COVID-19 Transition Taskforce was established and hosted by
PM&C, and co-led by PM&C and the Department of Health and Aged Care. The Transition Taskforce
comprised representatives from all three central agencies (PM&C, Department of the Treasury and
Department of Finance), as well as representatives from the Department of Health and Aged Care and
from Home Affairs. It was supported by a Band 3 Inter-Departmental Committee, co-chaired by PM&C
and Department of Health and Aged Care which comprised representatives from all APS organisations.



                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                           3
                                                   OFFICIAL



Its purpose was to develop a framework to transition COVID-19 response measures to post-pandemic
business as usual arrangements. The Strategic Framework was endorsed by the Commonwealth
Government and noted by National Cabinet as the framework through which the Commonwealth would
transition all COVID-19 arrangements. It is available online. The COVID-19 Transition Taskforce
concluded in December 2022.

Throughout the pandemic a number of other subsidiary taskforces were also established to address
specific issues such as international student arrivals and international reopening.

While all these taskforces enabled the timely provision of whole of government advice and coordination,
the overlap between them and their spread across PM&C (and thus different reporting lines) did at
times create duplication and cause coordination issues. Future departmental pandemic responses may
benefit from the creation of a central, well-staffed team with responsibility for PM&C's coordination and
strategy.

Priorities and Delivery Unit

The Priorities and Delivery Unit (PDU) played a pivotal role presenting daily data and providing advice
to Government, as well as National Cabinet. The PDU supported the Department of Health and Aged
Care to set up processes to store, process and analyse vaccine and epidemiology information, including
support for the production of daily vaccine updates1. Real time data on the vaccination roll out informed
decision making pertaining to the implementation of the rollout, and informed decisions on the speed
of re-opening.

The PDU drew on multiple data sources from Commonwealth, state and territory sources as well as
private sector and international sources on COVID-19. Data on health measures was combined with a
range of real-time economic and mobility data to brief the Prime Minister daily on the status of health
and economic aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic. This included at the peak over 10 daily briefing
products to the Prime Minister's Office, including a roughly 40 page Prime Minister's Brief that was
updated twice a day.

This information was disseminated across Government to provide a common understanding of risks
and improvements. PDU partnered with the Department of Health and Aged Care and state and
territory governments to enable the flow of data to National Cabinet, enabling robust and evidence
based decision making. The Common Operating Picture (COP)2 presented fused critical health metrics
including rate of cases, outbreaks, hospital capacity and vaccination to National Cabinet, to inform
decisions regarding Australia's response to COVID-19 and speed of reopening and relaxing of
restrictions. The traffic light presentation of the COP denoted a specific level of concern or action,
meaning that metrics coded red warranted close scrutiny by Ministers, while metrics coded amber could
be de-escalated to monitoring by officials.




1 COVID-19 vaccination rollout update | Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care
2 Coronavirus (COVID-19) common operating picture | Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care



                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                     4
                                                     OFFICIAL



The need to provide accurate and up-to-date information on COVID-19 helped break down silos
relating to data and information. However, in the future, clear and robust data sharing arrangements
with the states (such as under Federation Funding Agreements) would save time and ensure
comprehensive data is available early.

Behavioural Science

PM&C's Behavioural Economics Team of the Australian Government (BETA) produced and synthesised
behavioural science evidence to inform various policy decisions made by Cabinet committees,
National Cabinet, First Secretaries Group, the Chief Operating Officers Committee and others.
BETA provided advice based on its own survey research into Australians' behaviours, as well as existing
and emerging behavioural science literature. Topics BETA advised on included protective health
behaviours, vaccination, and workplace issues. BETA worked directly with other parts of PM&C (such as
the COVID-19 Response Taskforce) as well as partnering on specific issues with other departments,
including the Department of Health and Aged Care on two guides to support people's psychological
preparedness for hotel quarantine. BETA also engaged informally with behavioural science experts in
academia and in the NSW and Victorian governments.

Vaccine Strategy Integration Group

The Vaccine Strategy Integration Group was established in January 2021 to ensure a cohesive and
collaborative approach to the vaccine rollout, ensuring all aspects are aligned between the
Commonwealth and states and territories, including integration of non-health components. The group
was led by the Deputy Secretary Social Policy Group and was supported in PM&C by the COVID-19
Health Branch and Commonwealth-State Relations Branch. Membership included the Commonwealth
Department of Health and Aged Care and all states and territories First Ministers Department at the
Deputy Secretary level. The group was designed to share information and work through issues quickly
in the first few months of the vaccine rollout. The group also worked closely with partner agencies that
lead different aspects of the rollout, providing a central and coordinated approach. For the first several
months it met daily and then less frequently as the rollout matured.

Communications

The established PM&C communications team contributed to providing whole of government
messaging around the pandemic and government response.

The team worked with the Digital Transformation Agency (DTA) to rebuild the Australia.gov.au website
to make it fit for purpose as a COVID-19 portal, bringing together information from all Commonwealth
agencies   (including   Department of       Health     and      Aged   Care,   Department of the Treasury,
Services Australia, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and Home Affairs) as well as clear links to
State and Territory Government COVID-19 information. In 2020, the website was visited by more than
18 million unique users. High traffic continued throughout 2021.




                                                     OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                               5
                                                   OFFICIAL



The team also established 'Australian Government' social media accounts across Facebook, Instagram,
Twitter and Linked In where information was posted, and questions answered. This content covered all
Commonwealth agencies and state and territory government information was re-posted where
appropriate (e.g. the announcement of new stay at home measures or border closures). These accounts
quickly built strong followings from people who would not normally follow departmental accounts.
2,440 original social media posts were published between March 2020 and December 2021, generating
205 million impressions.

The website and social media channels were managed 24/7 and updates from National Cabinet,
Prime Minister press conferences and other public announcements were quickly available on the site,
including after hours and on weekends.

Questions from the public were generally responded to within 24 hours using language cleared by
departments with responsibility for a particular issue.

Future government pandemic responses would likely benefit from the rapid establishment of a central
communications hub, or a whole-of-government communications taskforce to manage Commonwealth
messaging and to coordinate public communication messages with states and territories. This would
be best led by PM&C, but have representation from key agencies involved in the response. Such a team
or taskforce would have ownership of and be responsible for maintaining digital communication
channels and any branding and downloadable collateral.

A central whole of government communications taskforce would also have a role to play translating
health advice and advising on how to best present it, noting that during the pandemic health advice
(including technical vaccine advice from ATAGI) was often written in technical and opaque language.
Such a taskforce could also advise on when to present information, as the timing of press conferences
and publication of advice, may have at times contributed to a sense of crisis that was not warranted.

National COVID-19 Commission Advisory Board.

On 25 March 2020, the then Prime Minister (the Hon Scott Morrison MP) established the National
COVID-19 Coordination Commission (NCCC) (which became the National COVID-19 Commission
Advisory Board) to assist in minimising the immediate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and bring a
business perspective to the longer term economic recovery.

Based within PM&C, the NCCC was charged with helping Government address a range of problems,
such as supply and employment issues, helping industry and businesses to develop COVIDSafe plans
and providing a strategic advisory role to Government on longer term economic recovery.

The NCCC was led by Mr Neville Power and supported by the Deputy Chair, Mr David Thodey AO, and
a board of commissioners. On its establishment, the commissioners were Mr Greg Combet AM, Ms Jane
Halton AO PSM FAICD FIPPA, Mr Paul Little AO, and Ms Catherine Tanna. Each of the commissioners
led the development of strategies and engagement within a specific stream or sector relevant to their
expertise, across the public, private and not-for-profit sectors. The commissioners were joined on the




                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                              6
                                                   OFFICIAL



NCCC executive board by the then PM&C Secretary, Mr Philip Gaetjens, and the then Secretary of the
Department of Home Affairs, Mr Mike Pezzullo AO.

As the pandemic and the Government's response to it evolved, NCCC members drew on their business
networks and experience in giving practical and strategic advice to Government. In the initial stages of
the crisis, it focused on assisting in the resolution of immediate issues, such as shortages in personal
protective equipment and unblocking supply chains. It then worked with industry and businesses to
develop COVIDSafe plans so they could reopen safely as restrictions were lifted. The NCCC then
transitioned to focus on longer term economic recovery issues, playing a strategic advisory role to
Government. The NCCC Advisory Board was disbanded on 3 May 2021.




                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                             7
                                                   OFFICIAL



Supporting National Governance Arrangements
The Australian response to COVID-19 was a national endeavour, with state and territory governments
responsible for a wide range of actions that gave effect to national decisions and augmented the
Commonwealth response.

Ensuring that the right people were in the room with the right information was key to supporting a
coordinated national response. To do this, PM&C supported a variety of decision making forums,
establishing strong working relationships with state and territory counterparts that enabled the
Commonwealth and the states and territories to receive expert advice in order to form a common
picture, and in turn build consensus and shared direction.

Council of Australian Government (COAG) and National Cabinet

Ahead of the pre-scheduled 13 March 2020 COAG meeting, PM&C worked quickly with the states and
territories to revise the agenda to focus on the pandemic, including consideration of revised national
governance arrangements.

Following the 13 March 2020 meeting, the then Prime Minister announced the establishment of
National Cabinet. This became the key national decision-making body to manage the COVID-19
pandemic response. In a further development, on 29 May 2020, the then Prime Minister announced
that COAG would cease and be replaced by the National Cabinet. These initiatives, the establishment
of which was supported by PM&C, provided a new architecture for the governance of the
Australian federation.

Since 13 March 2020, National Cabinet has met on 74 occasions, where COVID related matters were
discussed, including:
    •       international and domestic border arrangements for passengers and freight
    •       COVID-19 testing and tracing
    •       quarantine arrangements
    •       the National Partnership on the COVID-19 Response
    •       the Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment
    •       isolation periods
    •       wearing of masks
    •       the framework for a nationally consistent approach to transition Australia's COVID-19 response.

Other Ministerial Councils (e.g. Treasurers, Health Ministers, and Infrastructure Ministers) also met
regularly to support a national response to the challenges of the pandemic.

PM&C provides secretariat support to National Cabinet, including coordinating government advice and
key documents to the National Cabinet, as well as working with state and territory counterparts to aid
preparation for the meetings.

National Cabinet was initially established as a committee of Cabinet, and this provided some challenges
with the dissemination of materials classified Protected and above under cabinet confidentiality


                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                            8
                                                   OFFICIAL



provisions. Officials in jurisdictions were required to obtain a security clearance to enable access to
classified material. Workarounds were established to disseminate National Cabinet classified material
as documents could not be sent via the usual channels used by the Commonwealth (i.e. protected email
or CabNet+). Processes improved over time, including the provision of Citrix accounts, to account for
the Commonwealth and the states and territories having incompatible systems.

The first meeting of National Cabinet under the Albanese Government was on 17 June 2022 and this
and all subsequent meetings were no longer held as a committee of Federal Cabinet. Whilst most
documents are transmitted via email at Official level, the capability for delivering PROTECTED
documents has been maintained.

Meetings were held virtually, via the Ministerial Communication Network (MCN). These are fixed systems
located in a secure office, usually at the First Ministers' departments in each jurisdiction, allowing
discussions up to Secret, with some First Ministers able to obtain a deployable device which enabled
them to dial in to meetings outside of the traditional access controlled areas. This was a feature of the
National Cabinet meetings under Cabinet requirements.

Senior Officials Meetings
COAG Senior Officials Meeting (SOM) and Deputy Senior Officials Meeting (DSOM) were senior officials'
forums, chaired respectively by the Secretary of PM&C and relevant PM&C Deputy Secretary, where
matters requiring intergovernmental coordination with First Ministers' departments were discussed.
Following the establishment of National Cabinet these forums were replaced in June 2020 by the
First Secretaries Group (FSG) and First Deputies Group (FDG).

PM&C senior officials were also responsible for chairing FSG and FDG, which met on a more frequent
basis than COAG SOM and DSOM. These senior officials' forums supported National Cabinet and also
discussed other matters requiring intergovernmental coordination with First Ministers' departments.
During the pandemic these forums brokered solutions to policy and operational issues, freeing up
National Cabinet to focus on strategic issues. Since they were established in July 2020, FSG and FDG
have met on 53 occasions and 72 occasions respectively where COVID-19 matters were discussed.

Meetings were generally held virtually, using Microsoft Teams, enabling officials to meet as often as
required, and with shorter notice for the scheduling of meetings. By ensuring regular contact at senior
levels across jurisdictions, information was shared quickly and efficiently in both directions.

Between March 2020 and June 2022, the National Cabinet function and the Senior Officials secretariat
were located in different divisions of PM&C. National Cabinet, as a committee of Cabinet, was located
in Cabinet Division, whereas the operation of FDG and FSG was operated out of the Commonwealth­
State Relations Branch (CSRB). Since the transition of the National Cabinet secretariat into CSRB,
improved communication and collaboration at all levels have been realised, with consistent points of
contact and a single information flow between the Commonwealth and jurisdictions.




                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                              9
                                                   OFFICIAL



Ensuring Business Continuity
Like all Australian workplaces, the pandemic required a number of changes to PM&C's operations to
ensure that departmental staff and other stakeholders' wellbeing was supported and that they could
continue to perform critical business functions in a changing operating environment.

To do this PM&C established an internal COVID-19 response working group led by the Chief Operating
Officer, with representation across corporate enabling areas, which enacted the internal PM&C
Pandemic Plan. The PM&C Pandemic Plan was updated in March 2020 and again in March 2022.

PM&C also established an online staff resource, the COVID-19 portal, hosting information including
leave advice in line with whole of government positions, wellbeing supports and incident management
protocols. The PM&C Business Continuity Plan was not formally enacted as staffing did not reach critical
levels and there were no major incidents.

PM&C's existing digital systems and Flexible Working Policy meant it was well-placed to transition to
remote working arrangements at the start of the pandemic, reducing business disruption.

At PM&C, most staff already worked on laptops, using an online document sharing system, and large
numbers of staff are able to work remotely on PM&C's private network at the same time. In recognition
of the change in risk from having large numbers of people working remotely, PM&C provided advice
to staff about appropriate handling of information and assets to meet the requirements of the Protective
Security Policy Framework. In addition, PM&C increased its focus on cyber threats related to COVID-19,
such as an increased threat of email phishing attacks containing topics related to COVID-19.

Due to security and operational requirements some PM&C staff were required to continue to come into
the office throughout the pandemic. This risk was managed by maintaining social distancing and
splitting teams into two (A and B sub-teams) where practical, with alternating office days to minimise
the risk of an entire team being exposed.

PM&C teams also implemented agile solutions to support the Prime Minister and other key stakeholders
to hold and attend key meetings and multilateral fora held during the pandemic. These ranged from
supporting the Prime Minister to attend virtual meetings including the 2020 and 2021 Annual Leaders'
Dialogues for PNG and the 2020 G20 Riyadh Summit to the distribution of 'fly-away-kits' for attendees
unable to travel and use appropriate facilities for remote National Cabinet meetings.

Practices to enable ongoing operation of the Federal Executive Council (ExCo) were implemented in
consultation with His Excellency the Governor-General. This ensured continued consideration of items
requiring decision at ExCo (such as legislative changes, significant appointments and trade
agreements), throughout the pandemic.




                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                            10
                                                   OFFICIAL



Conclusions and Future Directions
The unprecedented scope and scale of the COVID-19 crisis and the government's response to it made
PM&C's convening and coordinating role more essential than ever. While PM&C performed its role
supporting the Commonwealth Government responsively, there were still areas for improvement that
should be considered to improve future pandemic responses.

As a central agency PM&C leant into its ability to leverage relationships and bring together relevant
expertise and diverse points of view to ensure that governments were equipped to make the best
possible decisions and that their decisions could be disseminated and implemented quickly and
effectively.

PM&C's staff stepped up to the challenges presented by COVID and many worked long and hard hours,
taking on new responsibilities and adapting rapidly as needed, whether it be within PM&C or supporting
other departments.

In retrospect, PM&C could have set up a structure early in the pandemic that better brought together
the various COVID-19 functions. Much of the coordination inside the department relied on individuals
and informal networks keeping each other informed, which worked reasonably well but could have
been supported by more formal structures. Future pandemic responses would benefit from ensuring
that there are pre-existing mechanisms for setting up central response coordination teams and
governance structures to quickly respond to crises. The recently established Resilience and Crisis
Management Division provides a strong platform for this. Staff with relevant skills from across the APS
should also be identified in advance so that they can be asked to step up when needed.

The length of the pandemic also highlighted the need to allocate resources and conduct planning in
such a way that ensures the APS can support a sustained response lasting well beyond the initial surge.
Planning needs to consider the staffing rotation after next to provide continuity of response and allow
staff to be rested. This approach would also ensure the retention of corporate knowledge within
response teams. Resourcing should recognise that necessary skill sets are likely to change over time as
policy responses adjust. This includes the importance of allocating resources early to emerging and
future risks (for example vaccine distribution and new variants).

Future pandemic responses will benefit from structures established during COVID-19, including
National Cabinet, that enable whole-of-government and cross jurisdictional decisions to be made from
the get go. As time passes it will also be important to ensure that the strong relationships and structures
built during the pandemic are maintained through regular engagements and planning exercises. It
would be worth however reviewing Commonwealth-state mechanisms and powers to ensure they are
appropriate and fit for purpose. The overlap, and at times lack of clarity, about the various
Commonwealth pandemic powers created uncertainty and delayed some aspects of the response.




                                                   OFFICIAL

PM&C | Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry                               11
