We are a group of parents with children under five years old who are concerned about the
long-term effects of repeated infection with COVID-19. We are all approaching COVID-19 using
the precautionary principle. To our knowledge, most of us have managed to avoid contracting
COVID-19. We did not know each other before the pandemic began, but connected via online
groups and have since formed a regular in-person playgroup because there are so few COVID
safe educational and extracurricular options for us.

We meet outdoors and don’t attend if symptomatic. Some parents and children choose to test
and/or mask at times if they have been in high risk settings or if there is a COVID-19 wave. We
have so far had no COVID-19 spread in our playgroup.

We are submitting this anonymously - given the politicised nature of mask wearing and
vaccinating children, we feel we need to remain anonymous for the safety of our families.

Our concerns specifically for children under 5 years old:
   •        Lack of access to vaccines for children under 5 years old.
   • Lack of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) in health settings, particularly where
      younger children cannot mask.
   • Many of us are currently not able to access educational, healthcare and social services
       and extracurricular activities due to the lack of clean air policies in these settings.
   • Public health messaging: There is little or no recognition of the airborne nature of
       SARS-CoV-2 virus. As parents we have to repeatedly educate the healthcare workers,
       educators, other parents and service providers we come into contact with about the real
       risks of COVID-19, the need for clean air and masking. We have been in contact with
       parents and childcare workers encouraging the spread of COVID-19 in households,
       believing it is beneficial to “build up immunity” despite scientific evidence contrary to this.
      We have been in contact with medical professionals who advised that infection in
       children is “mild” without consideration of the long term harm of infection or repeat
       infections.
   • Many of us have no safe childcare options and have given up work to care for our
       children full-time.
   • There are surprisingly few options for outdoor sports for under-5s. Funding is needed for
       outdoor undercover spaces.

What we would like to see:
  •       Access to vaccines for under 5s.
  • COVID-19 safe options for childcare, healthcare, education and extracurricular activities
      that prevent or minimise transmission: clean air monitoring and filtration, funded PPE
      and funding to build outdoor classrooms and outdoor undercover spaces for sports.
  • Safe access to public amenities and activities eg swimming, libraries, playgroups, social
      events through clean air monitoring and filtration.
  •       Clear and accurate public health messaging about:
          • The airborne nature of SARS-CoV-2 virus - how it is transmitted and the need for
              clean air. We have spoken to other parents who have used up their sick leave
           and have been unwell every other week. They do not know to check the air
           quality at their children’s childcare or school.
       • The need for testing, staying home if sick, vaccination, masking to help reduce
           spread
       • The neurological and vascular long term impacts of COVID-19 and repeated
           infections
       • The impact of COVID-19 on children particularly the risk of long covid, the longer
           term neurological and vascular risks, the risk of repeated infections.
       • Clean air standards and how to implement them effectively and economically at
           home, and in commercial settings such as small business, health and
           educational settings. This includes what staffing is needed to clean filters, turn
           them on, check them, check carbon dioxide (CO2) levels etc.
•   Returning to more comprehensive surveillance data to enable people to make informed
    decisions ahead of time.
