I’m a             married male with three adult children and 6
grandchildren. I am retired and was so during the Covid-19 pandemic. My
wife and I both had the mandatory first and second vaccinations forced on
us by the Victorian Government.

One of my concerns was that both Federal and State Governments, and I
include the relevant Health Departments here, looked to international
statisitics and directions, especially from the WHO, European governments
and immunologists like America’s Dr Fauci, who were running with their
own agendas and in reality didn’t really care what was happening in
Australia.
Decisions were being made by all governments based on their
recommendations without due consideration being given to our own
Bureau of Statistics data which showed the true impact of the spread of the
virus here at home and not the figures that our governments wanted us to
see to support their own decisions, and the draconian border closures and
lockdowns we endured (in our case in Victoria the worst in the world and
we still had the highest death rate supposedly attributed to Covid-19 in this
country). Also other people who did their own research and provided
alternatives (eg Australians like Clive Palmer and the Hydroxychloroquine
product) were treated as uninformed or crackpots. In this example, the
Mayo Clinic now states that this product is safe and effective against Covid-
19 (see below).
Another concern I have is being forced to take the vaccinations just so that
we could go shopping (first dose) and travel intrastate and eventually
interstate (second dose). My wife and I had the second dose to allow us to
travel to           see our daughter and her family including our youngest
granddaughter who we had never met.
We were told they were safe and effective treatments. I had little side effects
from both doses, only a loss of appetite after the second. My wife however
was very sick after her second dose for about 3 weeks. After she had
recovered we drove to ^^^Mto visit our family there. After our first week
in ^^^^my wife caught Covid-19 and ended up being isolated in hospital
for 9 days. So much to the safe and effectiveness of the vaccines.
As a sideline, I am very concerned about the WHO’s pandemic treaty now
being discussed. This will take away our soverign rights and is fraught with
danger.
The last point I’d like to make is all the small to medium businesses that
went bust during the Covid-19 period because they were forced to close
their doors and couldn’t survive. Many lives, peoples hopes and aspirations,
and even marriages were destroyed. Most big retail chains were allowed to
remain open because they could afford to setup online shopping, click and
collect processes, etc. In other words they could wear the cost.
Having owned                                        there was no way I
could have afforded and sustained an online shop front, so I would have
had to shut down, lose all my stock and possibly end up bankrupt. Glad I
was retired.




Thank you for considering my submission.
