                                                                              15 December 2023
The Chair
The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
PO Box 6500
Canberra ACT 2600
Australia

             Re: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Chairperson Kruk

I am Dr Wilson Sy. I have extensive experience in data analysis in academia (physics and
biophysics), in finance industry (investment banking and economics) and in government
(financial regulation). I was for six years the Principal Researcher at the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority and was a senior adviser to the 2010 Super System Review (Cooper
Review). My individual submission here is independent of any organizational affiliation,
political or otherwise.

I indicate in this submission a few aspects of how the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed
inadequate responses by the Commonwealth Government, the role of which is the main focus
of my submission.

Statistical Neglect

Health has always been based on individual needs and has never been appropriate to mandate
sweeping medical solutions by governments on individuals. Therefore, it is appropriate that
health remains the limited responsibilities of state and territory governments, except those
governments have exceeded their limits.

However, according to section 51 (xi) of the Australian Constitution, the Federal Government
has the powers and the duty to collect national “census and statistics”. It has never been more
important to collect accurate and timely statistics than during than COVID-19 pandemic
when information was vital to making life-and-death decisions for individuals.

Patchy, inconsistent and misleading statistics were collected by different state and territory
governments without any auditing and harmonizing input by the Commonwealth Government
to ensure disparate databases are valid and consistent. The Commonwealth Government has
the constitutional duty to aggregate the data for the nation.

As a result of statistical neglect, very little of the COVID data were adequate in quality to
assess reliably the risk versus benefit of CO VID vaccination [1], Without trustworthy
information, it was impossible for individuals to give informed consent to be vaccinated.
Rational vaccine hesitancy of many agnostics was ignored by governments with coercion and
enforcement of illegal mandates in some professions.

The neglect of collecting quality COVID data and the production of accurate and timely
statistical analysis were the fundamental causes of bad policy decisions leading so far to
approximately 50,000 excess Australian deaths, according to the Australian Bureau of
statistics.

                                          Page 1 of 3
Coordination with Outside Experts

Governments’ chosen experts were never going to criticize governments’ own data
collections. They are merely apologists for governments’ decisions, even though they should
know that official data are flawed [1],

From the very beginning, the official narrative was that the SARS-CoV-2 virus is so novel
that no one can possibly know what to expect, i.e. there are no experts, and everyone should
be very afraid and prepare for the worst until incoming data provide more information, which
is less than useless, unless they are accurate and reliable.

There are different ways of overcoming the shortcomings of official data, but Government
chosen experts are never going to find them, because their jobs are to defend rather than to
attack official data. They select the data to support their official narratives that vaccination is
“safe and effective”.

Very different conclusions are obtained after government databases are debugged and the
sources and origins of the errors are understood. More robust approaches avoiding flawed
official data have reached the unpleasant conclusions that major policy mistakes have cost
tens of thousands of lives, particularly in the elderly [2-4],

Since the Commonwealth Government is in a more neutral position, not being directly
involved in many those erroneous decisions by other governments, it should be in an
advantageous position to facilitate and coordinate the efforts of outside experts to reconcile
their research with the more constrained opinions of Government experts.

International Policies

The Commonwealth Government should communicate, but not enforce, international policies
to the other governments. For example, Event 201 international simulation was staged in
2019 in preparedness for a coronavirus pandemic in 2020. Recommendation 3 (out a list of
seven) states:

       “ Countries, international organizations, and global transportation companies should
       work together to maintain travel and trade during severe pandemics. Travel and trade
       are essential to the global economy as well as to national and even local economies,
       and they should be maintained even in the face of a pandemic."

Why was this well-considered recommendation ignored? Why were lockdowns implemented
without any similar depth of research and discussion as Event 201?

Conclusion

The Commonwealth Government has the powers and duty to collect accurate national data in
a timely fashion to inform health policies for all Australian governments. It has also a duty to
transmit and coordinate national and international expertise and policies to enable all
Australian governments to make better decisions for the health and well-being of all citizens.




                                            Page 2 of 3
References

[1] Sy W. Data reporting flaw in plain sight distorting COVID-19 mortality statistics,
Academia, 25 August 2022. Retrieved from:
https://www.academia.edu/85597731/Data reporting flaw in plain sight distorting COVI
D 19 mortality statistics
[2] Sy W. Australian COVID-19 pandemic: A Bradford Hill analysis of iatrogenic excess mortality. J
Clin Exp Immunol 2023; 8(2), 542-556. https://www.opastpublishers.com/open-access-
articles/aus tralian-covidl9-pandemic-a-bradford-hill-analvsis-of-iatrogenic-excess-mortalitv.pdf

[3] Sy W. Simpson’s paradox in the correlations between excess mortality and covid-19 injections: a
case study of iatrogenic pandemic for elderly Australians. Medical & Clinical Research 2023; 8(7),
01-16. https://www.medclinrese.org/open-access/simpsons-paradox-in-the-correlations-between-
excess-mortality-and-covidl9-iniections-a-case-study-of-iatrogenic-pandemic.pdf
[4] Sy W. Early Indication of Long-Term Impact of COVID Injections. Medical & Clinical
Research 2023; 8(10), 01-06. https://www.medclinrese.org/open-access/early-indication-of-
longterm-impact-of-covid-injections.pdf




                                            Page 3 of 3
