Dear participants into the Commonwealth Government's response to COVID 19,



My name is margareta toohey and I used to be an inhome aged carer.

From 25th of October 2021 from one day to the next I was unable to continue work that I absolutely
loved, and which was an important contribution to the wellbeing of my elderly clients.

I remember the absolute fear inducing barrage from all media outlets that was unrelenting and
driving everyone towards vaccination as the only solution. No other health measures where even
considered. Needless to point out the short time the experimental gene therapy was approved.

Doctors that dared to go against the main narrative were severely impacted by either suspension or
threat of being struck off the register.

Whatever has happened to informed consent, bodily integrity and freedom of choice for a greater
good that as it turned out, increased an all-course mortality since 2021 by 16% as could be
ascertained by the Government's own Health Department's website if you were lucky and patient
enough to find the relevant data.

As part of an art initiative, I had the opportunity/misfortune to read the stories of nearly 600
wo/men who showed devastating medical symptoms shortly after receiving the COVID mRNA
vaccine that was supposed to be safe and effective!

Data from all countries' health departments show the devastating effect these injections have had on
a large amount of people.

The elderly should have been protected, the young and healthy who's risk of dying from COVID was
minute, should have just gone on with their lives instead of lockdowns, divisions in families and
friends.

The mental health fallout, the isolation, separation and division from the last three years has not
even been fully realised yet.

I urge this committee to urge the government of the day to implement tailor made strategies that are
relevant to the Australian people instead of taking the recommendations of unelected bureaucrats as
the only guidelines without critical analysis of the implications of such decisions on the wider
populus.



Thank you for your time.



Yours sincerely

margareta toohey
