The national cabinet (which has no basis in the Constitution) operated in secret and never
released any minutes of meetings. Public trust was lost as there was no accountability for
decisions made by premiers and government bureaucrats. The “health advice” that the premiers
and CHO’s relied on was never released to the public. The messaging was confusing and
constantly changing. “Rules” were inconsistent across the states. The federal and state
governments massively over-reached in control over the people.

Mandates in relation to masks and experimental injections are in absolute violation of our most
basic human rights. These mandates breach the Nuremberg Code. No one in a “free democratic
country” should ever be forced, coerced or tricked into taking an injection for any reason, even if it
is apparently for the “greater good”. Consent is absolutely critical. No one should have been
locked out of society for not complying with these mandates. No one should have lost their job
for not complying. No one should have been denied health care for not complying.

It’s now become quite obvious that the injections actually carry many more adverse reactions than
originally stated and these adverse reactions are not as rare as we were led to believe. Cheap
and effective medications (ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine) were available and should never
have been dismissed let alone banned. On the basis of effective medications being available, the
covid “vaccines” should never have received emergency use authorisation. It is a violation of
Australians’ rights to medical care and the doctor-patient relationship. The government should
never interfere with a person’s right to confidential discussions with their doctor and a person’s
decision about their own healthcare and medical choices.

Dissenting voices should never have been censored. People have the right to access information
from all sources and make their own decisions about their own health. The mainstream media
continue to feed the public nothing but government-approved propaganda. There are many
highly qualified health professionals
                    and many others) who have asked questions and suggested protocols other
than what government health officials have suggested and enforced . The fact that these health
professionals have been silenced, censored and in some cases de-registered is unacceptable.

Why was there no government messaging including suggestions to improve immunity such as
increase or maintain levels of vitamin D, zinc and other essential vitamins/minerals? Why weren’t
we encouraged to keep up or start some form of adequate exercise? Why was eating a healthy
diet and avoiding/minimising alcohol, caffeine, smoking not promoted? Why were gyms, sporting
centres and pilates studios closed during lockdown but bottle shops remained open? Why were
the government recommendations in direct opposition to what we all know is commonsense?
