                  Australia Council
                  For Health

World Council for Health
Country Chapter: Australia


Submissions to inquiry on recommendations that
aim to improve Australia's preparedness for future
pandemics

10 January 2024




                                       World Council
                                       For Health


                                          Admin@wch-australia.org
2

Introduction and overview of the submissions, which commence on page 4 of this
document

World Council for Health is a broad, grassroots, expert-led initiative to work together to empower
global and community health. We are governed by seven principles:

       1.           We act in honour and do no harm

       2.           We are free beings with free will

       3.           We are part of nature

       4.           We are spiritual and thrive when life has meaning and purpose

       5.           We thrive together and value our diverse community

       6.           We value different perspectives

       7.           We use technology with discernment

The Australian chapter of the World Council for Health is led by Professor Ian Briqhthope, Dr
Melissa McCann, Dr David Robbolini, Ian Bell, Lucinda van Buuren, Katie Ashby-Koppens.

Mr Albanese, we thank you for the opportunity to provide submissions and evidence to inform
your inquiry on recommendations that aim to improve Australia’s preparedness for future
pandemics.

Following are our submissions and supporting evidence on the statements that we consider will
hold Australia in a better position for any future health responses to a pandemic that Australia
may need to take.

We note that pandemics are not common and therefore cornerstone legal principles should be
upheld and any steps that curtail rights and freedoms should be properly considered and
assessed and taken with utmost caution.

There has not been one person that has not been affected by the decisions our governments
made in the face of the purported Covid-19 health crisis. Every person, business, and
organisation in our country has been personally touched and impacted by the decisions made in
response to the pandemic. Decisions we feel have left our country in a much worse state, such
that the repercussions and consequences continue to play out now everyday in all facets of our
lives, and will continue to be paid for, for generations to come.
3

You have asked for submissions to inform recommendations that aim to improve Australia’s
preparedness for future pandemics, and we have provided a few areas that we feel are a priority
and of the highest order for review.

It is difficult to provide a useful submission and evidence on the last 4 years in 3 pages. It is for
this reason that should an opportunity be granted to give further detailed submissions, including
oral submissions, we would be grateful for the opportunity.

We also cannot ignore the fact that for an event and decisions that impacted every person, that
a full inquiry is necessary, and for this reason we encourage you to call for the inquiry identified
in the following recommended Terms of Reference, which we fully support: Terms of Reference
for a Covid-19 inquiry.

Former Prime Minister, the Hon Tony Abbott recently stated:

         The fact that nearly every country now wants to forget the pandemic as a kind of collective
         bad dream, rather than rigorously analyse it lest we make the same mistakes again, shows
         how governance has generally become worse as it's become bigger and ever more
         intrusive.

In order to endeavour to meet the impossible page limit so as to have any meaning, these
submissions cover the 7 main topics we consider have led to a public health response, which
has left public health and the people of Australia in a much worse position:

    1.       Governance - governments need to govern - not be governed
    2.       The politicization of healthcare and sidelining of pharmacovigilance
    3.   Use of Fear - failure to use actual data and scientific information, instead preferring
         modeling
    4.       State Response instead of National Response to a national health emergency
    5.       Failure to use suitable Australian experts
    6.       Censorship and unilateral removal of informed consent

Schedule 1 is a chronology and key documents referenced in the sections 1-7.
4


Submissions
    1.    Governance - governments need to govern - not be governed

1.1.     It is incumbent on our government to govern. It is neither suitable, nor appropriate, for a
         government of elected officials, to delegate their responsibility or authority to other
         organisations, other countries, other countries’ regulators, or global corporations. A
         government’s role in a democratic society is to be government for the people, not of the
         people.

1.2.      Governance encompasses the system by which an organisation is controlled and
         operates, and the mechanisms by which it, and its people, are held to account. Law,
         ethics, risk management, compliance and administration are all elements of governance.
         1 None of these cornerstone principles were applied or upheld in the management or
         response by Australia's government to the Covid-19 pandemic.

1.3.      Our intrinsic trust in our elected officials has been eroded by the government’s conduct
         over the last 4 years, that for many, trust is non-existent. There will be a lot of work ahead
         for our elected officials to repair the harm, this could be achieved by: conducting a full
         and complete inquiry asking all of the questions necessary; activating an Open
         Disclosure Framework; taking responsibility; and being accountable (irrelevant if it was
         the former governments that made decisions).

    2.    Healthcare was politicized and pharmacovigilance was sidelined

2.1.      Beyond lockdowns, social distancing and masking of healthy cohorts not at any actual
         risk of Covid-19, vaccination became the sole focus with special dispensations being
         made for vaccine approval to be fast tracked as ordinary pharmacovigilance practices
         were brushed to one side. Timeframes for approval of new classes of drugs were
         slashed while tried and tested off-patent medicines were classified (see schedule 1).

2.2.      It seems that the regulator’s roles, models and responsibilities were all departed from
         and effectively put in the hands of the pharma-sponsors who were conflicted and blinded




1 https://www.qovernanceinstitute.com.au/resources/what-is-qovernance/
5

          by profit, which can be seen in the National COVID-19 Vaccine Campaign Plan as part
          of Operation COVID Shield.

2.3.      It still beggars belief that these untrialled products were approved for younger and
          younger cohorts not at risk of Covid-19 but even more alarming, when the TGA is put on
          notice that both Covid-19 vaccines are genetically modified organisms as well as being
          contaminated and adulterated, their approval is changed from provisional approval to a
          grant of full approval.

    3.      Use Science instead of Fear - use of Modelling instead of Actual Data

3.1.      Fear was the sole focus of the communication campaign for the Covid-19 pandemic
          (December 2019 - March 2022).

3.2.      Early on in the pandemic, May 2020, it was known that the infection fatality rate (IFR) of
          Covid-19 was at most 1.4% (meaning 98.6% recovery)2. That the initial Wuhan strain,
          which was the initial and most virulent strain, targeted the elderly and those with
          comorbidities.3 It was also known that the average age of those dying from Covid-19
          (not with) was 2 years older than the average age of death.4

3.3.      Despite this, the actual data and information was ignored in favour of modelling,
          modelling which greatly overstated the impacts Covid-19 may have on the population,
          including cohorts that were never at risk (ie children, healthy, working age). The
          modelling was shameless and was the pawn used to drive the fear.

3.4.      You, as our government, have the sole responsibility of maintaining social cohesion and
          a functioning society, whatever the emergency. Much is to be said for being considered
          and reasoned. Analysing the facts and applying them to Australia’s circumstances, would
          have been considerate and reasonable.


2 https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/coronavirus-death-rate/
https://ourworldindata.orq/mortalitv-risk-covid

3 Tabatabai M, Juarez PD, Matthews-Juarez P, Wilus DM, Ramesh A, Alcendor DJ, Tabatabai N, Singh KP. An Analysis of COVID-19
Mortality During the Dominancy of Alpha, Delta, and Omicron in the USA. J Prim Care Community Health. 2023 Jan-Dec; Accesssed
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.qov/pmc/articles/PMC10125879/pdf/10.1177 21501319231170164.pdf

4 https://swprs.org/studies-on-covid-19-lethality/#age
6

3.5.     Instead, you allowed fear to bedriven into the population. You drove it yourself. Fear
         is known to be the foundation of coercive control and emotional and psychological
         abusive relationships and it has no place in the governing of a democratic society.

    4.   Australian Specific National and State Health Response - Health response not
         Politician response

4.1.     The state level control and response of a national health 'emergency' was a shambles
         and a chaotic disaster. The Emergency Management Act 2013 needs to be revised to
         allow the federal government to intervene in health emergencies of national significance.

4.2.     In response to a health concern of national significance, the country was split at state
         level, which was controlled by premiers and health bureaucrats that granted unbridled
         power and created a tyrannical and dictatorial style of leadership not before seen in
         Australia.

4.3.     The control and management of the health 'emergency’ failed to safeguard people from
         the health consequences, exacerbated other health issues and breached inalienable
         human rights. Daily press conferences by premiers and health department chiefs were
         held that communicated the numbers of new infections and 'deaths with Covid’ (not from
         Covid) and lacked scientific basis or transparency.

4.4.     Medical apartheid was created: vaccinated or not, as opposed to infected or not.
         Simultaneously, the right to privacy of personal medical information was obliterated.

4.5.     When a health response becomes a political response then the wrong people are making
         decisions.
7

    5.    Fatal flaw not to utilise independent Australian experts

5.1.     So much of the public health response was left to 'international' organisations,
         pharmaceutical corporations and what other countries were doing.

5.2.     This failed to take into account our geographical, anthropological and sociological
         nuances of Australia as a self-contained continent, its people (as generally outdoorsy
         healthy people with a world class health system) meant that decisions made for other
         countries and applied in Australia were not suitable, or necessary, for Australia.

5.3.     Use of suitable independent experts, with no conflicts of interest nor financial incentives
         would have resulted in very different decisions being made, and a lot less harm being
         caused.

5.4.     An example is the Great Barrington Declaration, which was signed by 939,000+ experts,
         including infectious disease epidemiologists and public health scientists. All of whom
         had grave concerns about the damaging physical and mental health impacts of the
         prevailing Covid-19 policies, and recommended Focused Protection, which is to protect
         the vulnerable, and not lock down the healthy and capable. This Declaration advised
         against lockdowns and outlined possible consequences of prolonged lockdowns. All of
         those consequences have come to fruition in the last 3 years.

    6.    Why Censorship? Unilateral removal of Informed Consent

6.1.     Censoring discussion and silencing scientific debate is anti-science, anti-democratic,
         anti-rights, anti-medicine and anti-sense. Censorship only suggests there is something to
         hide, and it goes against the core democratic principle of free speech.

6.2.     The censorship and silencing of doctors such that they could not raise basic questions
         nor even speak to their patients about the suitability of certain treatments for them was
         not how medicine operates.

6.3.     Medical Board’s guidelines (per Schedule 1), were stringently enforced, such that the
         Boards have created perpetrators out of doctors who simply questioned what was being
         dictated, and what was immunologically illogical.
8

6.4.     Further, doctors had the right to treat a patient for their individual needs removed -
         the classification of off patent medications was the real criminal activity.

6.5.     Doctors were silenced or refused the basic information in order to give full informed
         consent specific to their patient:

          6.5.1.   the vaccines had received only provisional consent - short term efficacy and
                   safety data and continued approval was dependent on the evidence of ongoing
                   clinical trials as listed in all relevant AusPAR reports;

          6.5.2.   the government’s consent forms also do not state that the vaccines were only
                   provisionally approved;

          6.5.3.               the need to report side effects after vaccination.

    7.    The Effect and What Remains

7.1.     The last 4 years has left us with a financially crippled country, with everyday people
         suffering with a cost of living crisis. Inflation was inevitable - there was no way that
         billions of dollars could be thrown at the purported health emergency and inflation not
         occur.

7.2.     We have been left with a decrease in the education level, a ruined health system (despite
         the 'reason' for lockdowns to not overwhelm it) and an entire citizenry suffering
         psychological issues, many bordering on PTSD at the treatment you have shown them
         these last 4 years.
    8.    Conclusion

8.1.     We look forward to working collaboratively and respectfully with you, empowering and
         partnering with the Australian Public, and ensuring our rights are at the forefront of every
         decision being made at a Federal, National, State and Local level in future pandemic
         preparedness, moving forward.
9

Schedule 1 - Chronology and Key documents


    1.   In February 2020, at the commencement of the pandemic in Australia, the Australian Health
         Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza, AHMPPI, dated August 2019 was effectively shelved
         and ignored. Nowhere in that plan did it mention lockdowns, border closures or mandatory
         vaccinations.


    2.   Further, the National Immunisation Strategy 2019-2024 outlines the National Immunisation
         Program governance, and the supply and monitoring of NIP vaccines, and notably contains no
         mention of Covid-19 vaccines; these being administered outside of this program.


    3.   Yet as early on as 18 February 2020, the Department of Health indicated it would “fast-track
         assessment and approval of customised vaccine, should this become available; procure
         vaccines; develop a national novel coronavirus vaccination policy and a national novel
         coronavirus immunisation program; and communicate immunisation information on the program
         to the general public and health professionals” in its Australian Health Sector Emergency
         Response Plan for Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) I Australian Government Department of Health
         and Aged Care (4.1.4). This sent clear message that a vaccine solution would be a focus to
         respond to the virus. In the meantime, Australian states were placed into significant periods of
         lockdowns, people were masked, silenced and socially isolated.


    4.     By the middle of 2020, it was evident that vaccines would be available early in 2021.


    5.   The government indemnified pharmaceutical companies knowing the provisional status of these
         products. Our elected government officials continue to impede transparency, responsibility and
         accountability, by not disclosing the contracts made with these pharmaceutical companies.


    6.   With respect to the Covid-19 vaccines, the government departed from Australia’s model of
         immunization advice and funding, which was through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory
         Committee application process for funding under the National Immunisation Program Schedule.
         This ordinary process undertakes a thorough and objective assessment of clinical efficacy and
         cost-effectiveness (value for money), in comparison with other available treatments. This was not
         done - why not?


    7.   On February 2021, the TGAs Australian Public Assessment Report for Pfizer's Covid-19
         injectable BNT162b2 (mRNA), at page 37, outlined:

             “3. As the safety follow up is currently limited to a median of 2 months post Dose 2,
                 can the ACV comment on the likelihood of vaccine-related adverse events occurring after
                 more than 2 months post vaccination, particularly with the new mRNA vaccine?
10

                The ACVadvised that it is unlikely for vaccine-related adverse events to occur
                more than 2 months after vaccination based on available data. However, there is
                limited information on the use of mRNA vaccine in humans, which underpins the
                need for post market vaccine safety surveillance.”

       This position has not changed, despite provisional approval being granted to younger and
       younger cohorts.

  8.    Despite this, on 9 March 2021, AHPRA and the 15 National Boards released a joint position
        statement for the attention of all Registered Health Practitioners and students in regards to
        COVID-19 vaccination. That joint statement does not relay any potential risk of these novel,
        provisionally approved vaccines that were all still in active clinical trials.


  9.    These three vaccines were fast tracked through the TGA process, as promised because of the
        urgent global situation and because they were fast tracked, post market safety surveillance
        needed to be hypervigilant for public safety and hence why they were placed on the Black
        Triangle Scheme, which “provides a simple means for practitioners and patients to identify certain
        types of new prescription medicines, including those being used in new ways and to encourage
        the reporting of adverse events associated with their use.”


                The Pfizer C4591001 Protocol section 8.3.5 Exposure During Pregnancy or
                Breastfeeding, and Occupational Exposure, and 8.3.5.1. Exposure During Pregnancy,
                required investigation and substantial Risk assessment prior to these mRNA vaccines
                being rolled out as part of the vaccination campaign. Page 67-69
                C4591001 Clinical Protocol Nov2020 Pfizer BioNTech.pdf (tqhn.org)


10.    When the National Vaccine Campaign was rolled out in the health care facilities and health care
        workers were vaccinated with Covid-19 vaccines on site and continued to work. Had risks been
        properly assessed by the TGA, it raises the guestion of workplace safety and “Occupational
        Exposure”?


 11.   Vaccine passports were introduced as a National Strategy for provisionally approved vaccines in
        2021. This strategy was more about surveillance and implementing International Vaccine
        Passport system.
