My submission to the enquiry into - what has amounted to deadly - governance and
responses to COVID-19.

• Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and
treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine
facilities, and public health messaging).

     Injections (sold/advertised/pushed as "vaccinations") were from the start not properly
     tested, not effective in transmitting disease nor minimising symptoms not hospitalisations.
     Yet coercing continued.

     In regards to masks - mandated so zealously - viruses are clearly smaller than the pores in
     fabric. They clinically form a partial barrier to microscopic organisms when they are new
     and used for no more 20 minutes.
     I am sure you are aware that different and more expensive masks are required to form a
     more barrier.
     This was clearly not a realistic demand to be placed on anyone but operating theatre staff
     and this should have been made clear to the public. There was no place for untruths.

     Public Health messages were all based on fear, were focussed on hospitalisations and
     deaths, and were blown out of proportion. I know, as I have contacts with clinical data
     management.

     Public Health messages should have been focussed only on increasing health, on healthy
     choices, on naturally acquired immunity and on numbers of people that did NOT get sick

     Influenza was routinely and wrongly diagnosed as COVID

• Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for
example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and
other preventive health measures).

     Lockdowns have still not been proven to do anything but isolate people in general and in
     particular the vulnerable.

     Rulings that did not allow palliative care patients to spend their last moments with their own
     family and loved ones by their side was pure and utter         And anyone who supported
     those draconian measures should be held accountable for the mental anguish they caused
     to so many families

• International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard
to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international
partners for domestic use in Australia).

     The WHO is supported by and to a very large extend funded by the pharmaceutical
     industry. That alone should be enough for an independent government to tread careful.
     You speak of vaccine supplies as if that was a saviour. By now you must know it clearly
     wasn't.

     Suppoi^oiVKustralians should in this case include an open and honest enquiry into the
                            Into the international mix of ^^^^^and           stakeholders.

• Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and
transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).
     There was NO support for small businesses. Our^^Hbusiness will never recover from
     another set of^Jrulings that saw big companies ancraiains open and making HUGE
     profits whilst the rest of us were stopped from trading.

     Supply chains were broken resulting in parts and materials needed to complete works to
     not be available.

     A few dollars to keep our employees off the street and at able to feed themselves does
     NOT count towards support.

• Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

     Small businesses have been decimated - including our own family business. Financial
     support should have included several years of total tax relief. A couple of hundred dollars
     towards wages avoided us having to sack people at that time but this did not rescue a
     previously thriving business in the long term. Employees had to be stood down eventually

     Also, a few dollars per quarter towards exorbitant electricity fees does not entail support.

     I - a Qld Health (QH                         employee for           - was sacked over
     requesting and waiting for QH issued evidence that the non-tested injections were safe
     and effective before allowing the drug into my system. That information was never
     provided.
     I now live of my         many years before I ought to have needed to.
     I have not received financial support, I am not aware that support exists, and therefore I
     can only state that financial support - should it even be intended to be available - is grossly
     inadequate

• Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education,
housing and homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of
Commonwealth Government responsibility).

     Forcing children to live in a masked world was the ultimate insult to humanity. Not seeing
     facial expressions or encouraging smiles has of course had - and will continue to have - a
     negative impact on mental health.
     And not just for children. Suicide rates have increased as a result and I believe that
     everyone involved with the creation and the subsequent continuing enforcement of mask
     policies, is responsible for these tragic deaths.
     No support can ever make up for this.

• Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
(including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location,
people with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally
and linguistically diverse communities).

     Future responses should ALWAYS include healthy debate between ALL clinicians, not just
     the ones that follow a narrative that is ultimately funded by money.
     Indigenous people in particular, already challenging to engage with as their understanding
     (their more holistic understanding!) of health differs from white/western views, should have
     been consulted more than being coerced/forced into white-fellas policy.
     We have literally lost a decade of hard work into closing the gap as trust levels have
     reduced.

     Future responses should exclude ridicule, exclude ostracisation, and should take seriously
     all those who have a clear understanding of the issues at hand.
      Future responses should be based on truth and not on the perpetuation of fear and lies.

      Future responses should unite people.




I have written this from my experience as a small business owner and operator and from my
lengthy experience in the medical/clinical world.
EVERY human being deserves this COVID inquiry into ALL aspects of how the 'pandemic' was
handled.
I feel deep sadness in my heart and currently have little hope that the majority of policy makers
are able or willing to be independent and critical thinkers so that this deathly debacle will never
happen again.


Please do the right thing and prove me wrong!
