Submission Covid Inquiry



   1.   Mandates and job losses. The mandates were totally against a democratic way of life and the
        sacrosanct freedom of conscience regarding bodily autonomy which Australians have
        cherished as a fundamental right until 2021. People, who in conscience would not take the
        vaccine for moral and health reasons, lost their jobs. What made matters worse is that the
        vaccines, as proven by subsequent medical statistics to which the Government has access,
        did not prevent the spread of Covid. Those who lost their jobs are still recovering from the
        huge loss in income and the traumatic psychological effect of losing their livelihood. There
        has arisen a total lack of confidence in Government to protect the overall well-being of its
        citizens and to honour the basic human right of bodily autonomy.
   2.   Lockdowns. These, as proven by research and factual evidence fully available to the
        Government, were useless and harmful. There was great psychological trauma experienced,
        especially by the elderly and those who live alone. It was a travesty that people could not be
        with their loved ones who were dying. It was totally de-humanising and totally unnecessary.
   3.   Fear campaign: the daily reports by ministers and the health department echoed ad
        nauseum by all the media outlets produced untold and unnecessary fear. It seemed as those
        responsible were following some sort of script to terrorise the public into submission
        regarding mandates, lockdowns and mask wearing (all useless in hindsight).
   4.   Abuse of power: The Government, both Federal and State, and the National Cabinet abused
        their authority to coerce the entire population into submission for what has now become
        clear was not a true national health crisis. It has become evident that many of those who
        died did so because of other comorbidities. Those who had Covid were denied treatment
        that would help cure them ie Ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine... In fact, doctors were
        forbidden to prescribe what would work. The effective medicines and honest doctors were
        demonized for trying to save their patients.
   5.   Those suffering from post-vaccine injuries. I personally know of hundreds who, trusting
        government, took the vaccine in good faith, are now very ill, or have died due to the effects
        of the vaccine. The statistics are there fully available to the Government.
   6.   The pushing of boosters: This makes no sense given that not only do they not work but they
        are making people more ill.
   7.   Those benefitting: It would seem that the beneficiaries of the Covid 19 fiasco are: the
        Pharmaceutical companies who were given complete indemnity by the Government­
        something unheard of for experimental drugs; the funeral directors (increased death-rates
        post vaccines), and those powerful persons attached to the WEF and the WHO, who through
        this have increased their influence.

        Conclusion: those responsible for the loss of: lives, health, individual livelihoods, the collapse
        of small businesses, and psychological trauma should be held accountable. Everyone I know
        wants their democratic country back. Ultimately, whether people believe it or not, we are all
        accountable to God and he is the Lord of History.
