I am a citizen and taxpayer from Queensland, Australia and I lived through the Australian
Government's management of the 'Covid 19 pandemic'.

I demand a proper Royal Commission for a full and in-depth investigation into every aspect
of the handling of the pandemic including (but not limited to):

   1. corrupt vaccine procurement, secret contracts and coercive behaviour by the drug
      companies,
   2.      vaccine mandates,
   3.      mask mandates,
   4. lock downs and policies around expatriate Australians many of whom were left
       unable to get home and stranded in foreign countries,
   5. the plight of foreign backpacker workers (who were taxpayers prior to this event) left
      stranded and with no work and no way to get home and left to survive on charity,
   6.      media censorship and associated fear mongering,
   7.      over-reach of Australia's law enforcement agencies,
   8. the banning of off-label cheap, effective and safe drug treatments right when
      Australian's needed them,
   9. official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block
      transmission,
   10. apparent lack of concern for Australians by the Government / regulators when data
      signals started to emerge that the vaccines were not safe, nor effective,
   11. vaccine injuries and the appalling treatment and gaslighting of many of the vaccine
      injured by the medical profession,
   12. silencing of doctors, nurses and experts such as former drug company employees
      who knew there was something going seriously wrong with the products being
      injected into Australians,
   13. the role of AHPRAand ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors, nurses
       physiotherapists (ie. those professionals who were dealing with the sick and injured).

Please do not underestimate the importance of the Australian Government's Covid
pandemic response by treating it without the rigor of a proper Royal Commission with the
broadest set of parameters possible and the authority of the law to back up conclusions.
This subject warrants Australia's highest form of inquiry.
