Please find my submission as follows for the Federal covid enquiry.

Firstly, we need a royal commission into the handling of the covid crisis in Australia. An
“enquiry” is not nearly enough, nor will it thrash out what failed and who bears responsibility.

The handling of the covid crisis in Australia is nothing less than an expensive, shameful and
deadly assault upon the people of Australia.

Notable gross failures include-

*Unnecessary lockdowns that ruined small businesses forever- whilst large multinationals
were allowed to stay open and operating between 2020 and 2022. Proof lockdowns don’t
work is clear when one looks at Sweden’s approach which had no lockdowns and no
negative affects upon its populace as a result.

*Mask mandates. The science is in. Masks don’t work. They are completely ineffective at
preventing spread of disease.

*Locking children out of school. Our country’s youth have lost years of education. Infants
have their speech set back. This is an outrageous outcome for an age group that had
virtually no threat from the covid disease.

Tailed vaccination program. Both costly to the Australian public with over supply and gross
wastage of unused product. But more importantly completely useless. The mantra of safe
and effective relegated to the dustbin of history, as none of the pharmaceutical companies
provided a product fit for purpose.

*Government failure to investigate the skyrocketing all-cause mortality rate in Australia since
2021 when the covid vaccine rollout commenced. Currently still sitting on 15% above 2019
records.

* Mandates for vaccination. The FEDERAL government failed to introduce anti-discrimination
legislation like these two Bills here (that failed to pass). Why should I have compromised my
career?

* The media’s role in hyping fear across Australia. This was clearly exercised through
deliberate misinformation about so called covid deaths, censorship, vaccine efficacy,
boldface lies about hospital admissions, covering up vaccination injuries and pushing
vaccines as the only medication available.

The role of AHPRA, TGA and ATAGI in silencing and threatening doctors. These
organisations outright refusal to consider viable alternatives to vaccines. And their contracts
with big pharmaceutical companies in lockstep with the rest of the western world to commit
our country to vaccines as the only way out of covid. Along with the ongoing cover up of
covid vaccine damage across Australia’s population through their woeful reporting systems.
When will we address the issue that the TGA receives 96% of its funding from
pharmaceutical companies? Conflict of interest anyone?


Thank you.
Ross Rapmund
