15/12/2023



Dear Committee Members

I'm a qualified teacher of Byears and completed a Bachelor of Education Primary. My role at the
                                                  B was a specialist role in^^|A
Arts. I was teaching through most of the pandemic until the mandates started to roll out. I
worked in                    the most locked down and the most bullied region in^^H I chose
not to reveal my private medical information t ^Hmy employer, as it is illegal to do so, I
was bullied every week by Human Resources to provide this infonnation and threatened with job
loss through termination. I did not provide my private medical information and because of this, I
was tenninated from my role as a specialist         arts/]     arts teacher effective |
              B2022.1 would attach the letter of tennination but as it is confidential it will not be
attached as evidence. Additionally,

I was teacher capacity building and programming across several                     primary
schools and high schools, as well as, filling in the gaps of many absent teachers during the peak
of the pandemic as I was fit and healthy to do so. Eventually, when the government decided to
mandate covid 19 vaccines based on zero science I was left without a job and a severe loss of
income for several months. During this time I was unable to provide for my family, seeking
assistance and help from fellow good Australian citizens, as the government also cut off income
access from me due to these mandates.



Addressing terms of reference
     • Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for
       example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other
       preventive health measures).



     • Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of
       state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National
       Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection
       Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

     • Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
       (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location,
       people with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally
       and linguistically diverse communities).



In the future a national cabinet should never be formed again, we are one nation and a competent
government and round table of medical specialists in the fields of the medical emergency should
consolidate and be able to debate and make future decisions in a medical emergency. No
Government overreach into each individual's rights to make a medical decision. No international
interference for the Australian government to make its own decisions for its nation as we should
remain a sovereign country and address the needs of the people of this nation. There needs to be
full transparency to the public citizens of Australia regarding the dealings between
pharmaceutical contracts and medical decisions or dealings made by the government. There
needs to be a royal commission into government-enforced lockdowns, mass mandates, media
censorship, silencing of doctors, as well as AHPRA and ATAGI censorship and oppression of
doctors. The government should never get involved in a Doctor/Patient relationship, as
individual medical issues/records need to remain confidential and private information. More
importantly, the role of many politicians and media outlets that falsely claimed the ability of
vaccines to block transmission should be investigated and should never be allowed to be
broadcasted or voiced. This caused mass discrimination, abuse and unrest amongst many
Australians. The science needs to come first and allow for open debate.
Addressing terms of reference



     • Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and
       transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).
     •       Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).



If the government is going to stop thousands of citizens who make their own medical decisions
and choices based on their health from acquiring an income from employment, then the
government needs to substitute their loss of income. A royal commission into the thousands of
healthy citizens that had lost their jobs and income to support their families including my own
needs to be held and the need for these thousands of people who lost income during this time
needs to be compensated.



Yours sincerely,
