                       Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel.

I am a man, father, educated to look at issues, scientifically with commonsense to obtain the best
outcomes for all concerns.

I believe the COVID Pandemic was handled, in a way that with soul and community destroying
lockdowns, mandated vaccinations or you lose your job, vaccine passports to enter a hotel or
restaurant, a police State enforcing the restrictions. All had devastating physical and mental effects
that will be playing out for generations.

All the above restrictions, I believe left my family with a so




My first issue is with informed consent. I believe that for the following reasons no mRNA vaccine
was given where the ‘vaccinee’ could have given informed consent. And therefor all mRNA
vaccinations were given without informed consent, breaking Australian consent laws

    A. I believe that no ‘vaccinee’ was told the mRNA vaccines were experimental and operated by
       injecting a manmade mRNA into the human body to create a spike protein which would make
       the immune system to produce antibodies. No ‘vaccinee’ was ever told this type of
       experimental vaccination had never been used before in a large scale vaccination program.

    B. As the time frame did not allow for it to occur. No ‘vaccinee’ was told that the results of long
       term testing would not be known for two or three years into the future.

    C. As no testing had been done on pregnant women. Pregnant ‘vaccinees’ were encouraged to be
       vaccinated and were not told there were no test results as to the effect on pregnant women or
       their pregnancies


My second issue is with Vaccine Mandates. Mandating that it was essential to be vaccinated in order
to hold your job. Was one of the greatest injustices ever. And breaking an essential human right of
being able top control what is injected into your body.

Thirdly I have an issue, with the encouragement to vaccinate children from six to twenty years of age.
I believe it was a serious invasion of their human rights. The risk of children dying from CO VID is 2
in 1,000,000. Or 000,002%. https://www.bbc.com/news/health-57766717WithmRNAvaccines being
unknown, as to whether or not they affect a child’s DNA, the risk of serious side effects from mRNA
vaccines, greatly outweighs any benefit.
