Dear Panel,

This submission covers my personal experience of being subjected to the Australian Government decisions related to
the Covid-19 "pandemic" as well as some conclusions drawn from my research of the medical literature and medical
reports (from various perspectives) available to me at that time.

I wish it to be noted from the outset this inquiry should fall under the auspices of a Royal Commission.

Initially, I reacted with great concern and anxiety upon the World Health Organisation's (WHO) announcement of the
global pandemic by our mainstream media on 13 March 2020.

In the first days of the "pandemic", I was alarmed to hear a strong message from the WHO that "every man, woman and
child had to be vaccinated" against Covid-19, in spite of "very little knowledge of the disease" (as announced by the
WHO itself) and the unprecedented speed with which the "vaccine" was produced. It was also well known from the
initial statistical data, that the average age of the people who died from Covid in Italy was 83 years of age and the
recovery rate was 97-99.8% depending on age and co-morbidities. In this context, it did not make any sense to
undertake a radical, global action to lockdown the whole population, destroy the country's economy and vaccinate the
entire population, including young children who were not at risk.

More than intriguing was the fact that "vaccines" were being rolled out in a swift period of months instead of a
minimum of 10 years and for them to be deemed as "safe and effective". The reality was far from the truth, instead
data reports by NSW Health showed that there was a greater percentage of people being hospitalized and/or diagnosed
with the virus than those who had not been vaccinated. People who were vaccinated were contracting the virus more
so than those who hadn't. And in the case of the latter group, who did contract the virus, they would have acquired
natural immunity. So, were was the safety and efficacy that was claimed?

I understand there were some doctors and medical practitioners who were exercising their Hippocratic Oath of "do no
harm" in upholding medical ethics towards their patients were disciplined when they were either giving out medical
exemptions or advising patients of the true nature of the vaccines or adverse effects. Many were silenced or forced to
give up their medical licenses while a majority complied. I have friends in the medical industry who stood their ground
in not taking the Covid "vaccines" because they did not give their consent and lost their jobs.

As we already knew in early 2021, there was no excess deaths globally in 2020, the "tragic" year of the pandemic. This
statistical evidence as reported by Australian Bureau of Statistics could have been easily checked, yet the excess death
has been shown to follow the rollout of the "vaccine" with the spikes following the boosters. However, the alarmist
climate of threat and pressure to take the injections is maintained by our government and mainstream media.

Having migrated to Australia, a free democratic country, I was shocked to witness the brutality of the police shooting
rubber bullets at peaceful protesters who had a constitutional right to demonstrate publicly to unreasonable, draconian
restrictions that defied proper science. I saw elderly people being capsicum sprayed and dragged to the police vans.
During a peaceful protest in Canberra in February 2022, attended by many families with young children and babies in
prams, people were targeted with an EMF crowd disperser. Myself and many other people suffered serious burns.

I watched with dismay the horror of my friends who had to make a terrible choice between taking an experimental
"vaccine" or lose their jobs and incomes. It was extremely stressful for me to see them being coerced into boosters, in
spite of their adverse reaction to those injections. They described their feelings of being physically violated and
psychologically terrorised. I witnessed suffering of people who willingly took the Covid-19 "treatment" and fell ill
afterwards. There are many unreported cases of vaccine injuries and fatalities. There were people who unfortunately
died as a result of the injection. To this day, when the "pandemic" is no longer declared by WHO, there are still
government agencies and organisations that require that COVID-19 vaccinations are required in order to gain
employment or those who lost their jobs in the first place.

Thanks to my interest in health and wellness, I was dismayed to hear that staying indoors for many weeks, often in
crowded family settings, without fresh air and sunshine, wearing an ineffective and potentially harmful mask and being
deprived of supporting social contact was the best protective strategy at that time. There is no research that supports
this measure.

As a health practitioner and outdoor enthusiast, I was appalled to see empty playgrounds encircled with a police tape -
the same tape used to mark areas of crime. I was appalled to see in the public transport and outdoor places green,
round stickers dictating where people could sit, as if the people were circus animals under strict, cruel training.
Somehow, the "well informed" health agencies forgot about the scientific fact that people naturally disperse in open
public places and on public transport. Keeping comfortable distance from others should have been expected in the
created climate of the virus threat and disease terror. Communities were disallowed from attending religious spaces yet
pubs/bottle shops were open and available for those who wanted to purchase alcohol, a substance that would not have
supported a healthy natural immune system.

It is clear from the "pandemic" that the community's sense of mental health and well-being were compromised. You
only have to observe the provisions of psychological resources post-Covid. Many people were suicidal, took their lives
and became depressed/anxious as a result of the draconian and tyrannical measures undertaken by the government.

Underestimating people's intelligence and common sense indicated Government's contempt and lack of respect
towards citizens.

One of the most important lessons for me is that one cannot trust the government, its agencies, many doctors, nurses,
pharmacists and mainstream media. The politicians, bureaucrats and media across the world were exaggerating the
threat, passing on misinformation which often involved a mantra repetition - same script, word by word.

It is equally difficult to comprehend how the pharmaceutical companies that mass produced these experimental drugs
from the outset have been protected by the government. Why have they been indemnified and continue to be? Why
have these experimental drugs not been cancelled and taken off the market? If a car was known to have defects it
would immediately have had a product recall. If a commercial passenger aircraft had crashed with all on board, there
would have been a public outcry and a serious investigation take place. Yet in the case of the "vaccine" products, they
were continued to be pushed and their boosters to this day.

The false assurances by Scott Morrison that the "vaccines" were not mandatory, while in practice they have been
mandatory in Health, Education, and many other national and private sectors, were truly outrageous. People like myself
felt betrayed, coerced, angry and resentful.

Those who choose not to submit to draconian, authoritarian measures were ridiculed, ostracised, and labelled anti-
vaxxers, right-wing extremists, conspiracy theorists, and old people's murderers.

A positive outcome of the insane Covid hysteria for me and my friends was to discover that there were many
distinguished and highly experienced medical experts who were courageous to speak out the truth as was a great
number of ordinary people who were capable of correct judgment and applied common sense in response to the
created panic and tyranny.

Summarising, the people of power in most Australian institutions and organisations disqualified themselves by blindly
following directions of the World Health Organisation, either from the fear of losing their positions or from ignorance of
the critical issues in medicine and science.

Mainstream media played an important but shameful role in spreading misinformation and fear. Censorship and lack of
an expert debate indicated to me and many other people that unfortunately Australia became a victim of an
authoritarian system violating our democratic constitution and not acting in the interest of the people.

THE COERCIVE CONTROL AND THE NATIONAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE IMPOSED ON THE WHOLE POPULATION OF 24
MILLION CANNOT BE REPEATED
Suggested recommendations

1. Considering the national importance and urgency of the matter, it is paramount that the conclusions of this
investigation are published well BEFORE MAY 2024 - the date when the WHO signs a legally binding Treaty with the
member states.

2. Exit the World Health Organisation and never again cooperate with this largely compromised organization which is
largely funded by Bill Gates who has a major financial interest in the vaccine industry.

3. Establish a new advisory medical/scientific body to the Government, a group of trusted and not bribed experts to
provide adequate knowledge of the risks and treatments related to any future pandemic. Learn from the Swedish
sovereign response to Covid-19 not to follow the WHO nor any other organisations with vested interests.

4. Work closely with the World Council for Health established in September 2021, an organisation of medical and legal
experts alarmed by the corruption of the WHO and their mismanagement of the pandemic. This international
organisation works closely with Children's Health Defence (with Robert Kennedy Jnr at its helm) and with over 200
coalition partners in more than 45 countries.

5. Publish the raw data of all deaths and other adverse effects recorded by the TGA - unfortunately this body is heavily
funded and thus influenced by the pharmaceutical industry.

6. Appoint a new Board Director to the ABC, STOP censorship of investigative journalists, allow an open debate between
two sides of scientific discourse.

7. File a legal action against the manufactures of the Covid-19 injections and the responsible bodies that in full
knowledge of the possible harm continued to market and distribute those products. Remember, that the vaccines
against the Swine Flu (2009-2010) were banned after just FIVE deaths globally.
The official TGA data reported 1005 deaths so far. This figure tragically includes 9 children. Children have not been at
risk of dying from COVID.

8. Restore and honour the practice of INFORMED MEDICAL CONSENT.

9. NEVER again violate our constitutional right by mandating ANY medical procedures, lockdowns, wearing masks that
were found for many years to be ineffective and harmful. Isolate people with disease symptoms and provide
appropriate, humane care for people with compromised immune systems.

10. Emphasise the importance of natural immunity and the way to boost it naturally through a balanced diet and
nutrition, physical exercise, positive well-being without use of drugs or substances, engaging with Nature and positive
human contact.

11. NEVER again terrorise the population by fear mongering and misinformation.

12. NEVER AGAIN CENSOR FREE SPEECH. Always maintain free, democratic debate - the truth and real science are never
afraid of scrutiny.

13. Publicly acknowledge the findings of over 3000 peer-reviewed scientific papers that challenged the existing
narrative and provided trustworthy evidence.

14. In Parliament, introduce a clause of the public duty directing the Members to attend all the sessions that present
TWO sides of the parliamentary debate on critical issues of public health.

15. Following this Panel's findings, a Royal Commission should be called for to examine the response to Covid-19 in
more detail and hold those accountable for the misdeeds and wrong doing.
