 Submission to the Australian Government COVID19 Response Inquiry
                  Ian            Lees, parents of Katie Margaret Lees (24.9.1986 - 4.8.2021)

Terms of reference we are addressing
This submission addresses three of the terms of reference:
    o    Key health response measures (TRI)
    o    Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID19-19 and/or lockdowns (TR2)
    o    Financial support for individuals (TR3)

Who we are
    o   We are the parents of Katie Margaret Lees, a 34-year-old writer, actor and performer who died from
        the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine at 5pm Wednesday 4th August 2021. We also represent our three
        remaining children, Katie’s much-loved siblings,                            Katie was a fit and
        healthy woman who decided to get the AstraZeneca COVID 19 vaccine to do her bit to end the
        lockdowns imposed on NSW in June 2021. She had no pre-existing medical conditions. Katie did not
        need the vaccine; she wouldn’t have died if she got COVID19. Katie took this action, not because she
        was worried about getting COVID 19, but because she was deeply concerned about the impact of
        lockdowns on the life of communities and the mental health of individuals. Katie said, ‘Human beings
        cannot be expected to live like this. ’
    o   Katie’s immediate family, extended family and wide network of friends are still traumatised by Katie’s
        unnecessary death from the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine.
    o   Thank you for the opportunity share our experience. We believe there are important lessons to be learnt
        for the future from what we have suffered.

Summary of our experience
The following are the key points from the story of Katie’s vaccination and death from the AstraZeneca Vaccine.
Katie has her first dose of the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine
    o   Katie had her first does of the AstraZeneca vaccine on 22nd July 2021
    o   Katie had some headaches and developed a circular rash on the forearm of the arm she got the vaccine
        in. Despite advice being sent to GPs from NSW Health in early July 2021 about a rash being a sign of
        adverse reaction to the AZ vaccine,
                                                                                          The Federal
        Government’s strategy of shifting the issues with the AstraZeneca Vaccine to the primary health carers
        needs to be called into question if primary health carers were not aware of, or did not implement,
        advice.
Katie goes by ambulance to Royal Prince Alfred Hospital (RPAH)
    o   Katie woke on Sunday 1st August with severe headache and vomiting. She was transported to RPAH
        via ambulance.
    o   Katie’s brain CT scan showed severe clotting in the Cerebral Vein. The neurosurgeon stated that the
        location of the clotting indicated that this was caused by AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine. Katie slipped
        into deep unconsciousness around 3pm and never regained consciousness.
    o   Despite this catastrophic brain injury, undergoing subsequent neurosurgery and being on life support,
        due to COVID19 restrictions, we were not permitted to visit Katie until two days after she was
        admitted as she was still in COVID 19 intensive care, even though she tested negative to COVID 19.
Katie dies from the AstraZeneca Vaccine
    o    Just before 5pm on Wednesday 4th August,                                 and Ian gathered around
         Katie’s ICU bed. Ian gave the signal to the ICUnmsetotimionKatieNliiesupport.
    o    Katie Margaret Lees was declared dead at 4.59pm on Wednesday 4th August 2021.
No official contact
    o   Katie’s death was reported in one line on a reporting page on the TGA website on Thursday 5th August
        2021. This line diluted the cause and effect of the Astra Zeneca COVID19 vaccine on Katie’s death to
        ‘a 34-year-old woman in NSW died following her first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine’.
    o   On the same page as listing deaths from the AstraZeneca vaccine, the TGA website continued to say
        the AstraZeneca vaccine was safe.


Submission to COVID Pandemic Response Inquiry-from Ian and Penny Lees                                         1
    o     There was no official mention of her death in the daily COVID19 updates.
    o     No political or health leader initiated any contact with us.
Silence, mockery, discrediting and disbelief continue to this day
The death of our first-born child and eldest daughter from the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine has devastated
our lives. If that wasn’t bad enough, we have endured ongoing PR campaigns, media reporting and commentary
by politicians denying, diminishing, and discrediting our experience. Some examples include:
    o     After Katie died, the NSW Health Minister still declared the AstraZeneca Vaccine ‘a perfectly safe
          vaccine’. The NSW Premier told people to ‘not be fussy’ about which vaccine they had.
    o     My experience of the death of my daughter from the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine was mocked by
          the nurse giving me my COVID19 booster.
    o     Members of our family were assumed to be ‘anti-vaxers’.
    o     Our statements that Katie died from the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine were repeatedly questioned,
          edited out and watered down.
    o     The Katie Lees Foundation, which we set up in 2023 in Katie’s honour to support female writers and
          performers, was initially required by a funding body to delete the statement that Katie died from the
          AstraZeneca vaccine because they were a ‘pro-vaccination’ organisation.
    o     It took 9 months of approaching media to have our story told as they were concerned about implying
          there was something wrong with the vaccine.

Documented evidence that Katie died from the AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine
Katie Margaret Lees died at 5pm on Wednesday 4th August 2021 from vaccine-induced thrombosis with
thrombocytopenia syndrome (VITTS) caused by the AstraZeneca COVID 19 vaccine. Sadly, it has often been
our experience that some people doubt us when we say that Katie died from the AstraZeneca COVID 19 vaccine.
To establish this medical fact the evidence base is set out below:
           Date                          Data source                                         Cause of death

 1st August 2021         Royal Prince Alfred Hospital Medical            Very early identification of the AstraZeneca vaccine as
                         Records of Katie Margaret Lees. (Large file -   the most likely cause of the severe clotting in the base
                         280 pages available on request.)                of Katie's brain. Treatment path assumed this. Cause of
                                                                         death: Vaccine-induced thrombosis with
                                                                         thrombocytopenia syndrome.

 1st August 2021         Senior Intensive Care Unit Doctors and          'Katie is dying from the AstraZeneca COVID19 Vaccine'.
                         Neurosurgeon verbal reports.
 3rd August 2021

 6th August 2021         NSW Vaccine Safety Expert Panel review of       Vaccine-induced thrombosis with thrombocytopenia
                         the death of Katie Margaret Lees.               syndrome.
                         (attached)

 25th August 2021        Death Certificate of Katie Margaret Lees,       Vaccine-induced thrombosis with thrombocytopenia
                         (attached)                                      syndrome


Impact of Katie's death from the AstraZeneca Vaccine
Health
    o             ur remaining adult children, their partners and Ian have been emotionally, mentally and
         B        x _      ly traumatised by the way Katie died, the lack of support from Government and the
                  pharmaceutical industry and the alienation we feel from the mainstream narrative in our society.
    o                Ian have both been formally diagnosed with                           Idue to the cause and
          context of Katie’s death and the lack of support.
    o     We have engaged ongoing counselling support at our own expense.
Day to day existence
    o     Every morning, our first thought is how Katie died and the sinking feeling that we were used and
          discarded by our Government, by AstraZeneca and by our society.
    o     This stays with us all day and is the last thought at the end of the day.
    o     We are trying to get on with life and trying to shape a different life without Katie and with the
          indifference of our society to her death.




Submission to COVID Pandemic Response Inquiry - from Ian                   Lees                                                     2
Career and income
    o               a senior executive in a major Sydney hospital but was unable to continue to work in that
        role due to the mental health impacts of the constant reminders of COVID19 vaccination. This has
        meant the loss of years of executive level income.
    o   Ian no longer has the mental and emotional capacity to work full-time in his own business. This has
        reduced his income earning capacity significantly.
    o   Our adult children have found it very difficult to sustain work performance and maintain jobs since
        Katie died.
Social connection
    o   We continue to feel alienated and discarded from Australian society.
    o   We remain cynical of government and pharmaceutical industry.
    o   We have significantly reduced capacity for social engagement.

Our recommendations for government response to future pandemics
Our recommendations, bom out of our horrendous and deeply painful experience of our daughter dying from the
AstraZeneca vaccine are as follows:
Recommendation tfl: Improve vaccine quality
    o   Ensure vaccines are fully and thoroughly tested before being mandated to be taken by large numbers of
        the population.
    o   Ensure vaccines are targeted to those who are at risk of death or disability from COVID19-19, rather
        than adjusting eligibility criteria to cover those, especially young people not at risk of COVID19-19
        side effects, who then incurred an unnecessary risk from the vaccine.
    o   Ensure a wider range of vaccine options than the Australian government chose during the pandemic.
    o   Ensure there is a mechanism to rapidly learn from the experience of vaccine safety of other countries to
        safeguard Australians. Many European countries withdrew or limited the use of the AstraZeneca
        COVID19 vaccine by early 2021. We understand Denmark ceased using AstraZeneca in April 2021
        and Finland limited it to over 65-year-olds after reports of blood clots. Despite this evidence, on 28th
        June 2021, the Australian Prime Minister, Scott Morrison, declared the AstraZeneca vaccine safe for
        everyone over the age of 18 years, despite ATAGI increasing the recommended age from 50 to 60.
Recommendation #2: Greater clarity and honesty in communication about the vaccine
    o   Public statements about the quality, reliability and safety of vaccines should be as clear, direct and
        honest so that people can make an informed decision. It was not clearly communicated that the
        AstraZeneca COVID19 vaccine only had Provisional Approval when it was released to the Australian
        community.
    o   Devise an effective means of communicating the most up to date information to all primary health
        carers and have a mechanism to ensure this information is acted upon.
    o   Ensure clarity about what informed consent is in the context of a vaccine that only has provisional
        approval.
 Recommendation #3: Immediate and substantial support for people who suffer the impact of vaccine
failure.
    o   Acknowledgement is the most important and most powerful agent of care and healing. If we had
        received early contact and acknowledgement from a senior politician or health leader, this would have
        had a significant impact on our health and our future. Therefore, we recommend the Australian
        Government issue a National Apology and Recognition for deaths and disabilities suffered as a result
        of the mandated use of COVID19-19 vaccines that were not fully developed and tested.
    o   We recommend that a process be set up that enables deaths and severe impacts from vaccine failure to
        be reported to senior health and political leaders. These health and political leaders should then initiate
        contact with affected individuals and families to acknowledge the impact of the vaccine failure.
    o   We strongly recommend a full review of the basis and fairness of the Australian Government Vaccine
        Compensation scheme including substantial increases in the amounts paid to the loved ones of
        someone who dies from a government mandated vaccination program. We were verbally informed by a
        First Assistant Secretary for the Federal Health Department, that the vaccine compensation scheme was
        based on the NSW Sports Injury Scheme. This is an irrelevant basis of compensation. In the end, the
        language of Government is money. Words can be supportive but true acknowledgement and support
        comes through appropriate financial support and offers of psychological support.

    AppendlCeS: I- Death Certificate 2- Letter NSW Health (neither to be published)
Submission to COVID Pandemic Response Inquiry-from Ian            Lees                                            3
