I work                  and was personally impacted by the mandates. I took exception to the
lack of safety of what was a new technology that had no long-term safety data (and
remembering understanding that early treatment worked) so it made no sense to take it. The
information coming out of Israel in early 2021 at the time was evidence of poor safety of
vaccines as there was clotting and cardiac issues occurring. This lack of compliance and the
option of informed consent (that was identified as a human right after the Nuremberg Trials)
resulted in suspension, termination, legal action, and re-instatement and has caused great
personal anguish and mental health issues. When I caught Covid in early 2022, I had time at
home, but could still move about and felt ok. The only way to understand what happened is
a Royal Commission where the State premiers and Federal agencies need to be held
accountable and understand who was influencing key decisions.

There were doctors in 2020 who were speaking out about early treatment options, and these
treatment protocols were increasingly being documented in 2020 and into 2021. In the US,
doctors such                              as well as other doctor groups were advocating
for early treatment using many cheap over the counter medicines, and even with the original
Wuhan strain, no one was dying.

         (spoke at many conferences including this one in Florida Florida Covid Summit:
Dr.             'Successfully Treating 6,000 Covid-19 Patients' (rumble.com) in 2021. He also
spoke in 2020 advising that there was no need for a vaccine. Craig Kelly actually interviewed
Dr       and was shutdown as the information was labelled misinformation (vaccine
unfavourable information would be more accurate). There were doctors in Australia who
were also advocating for early treatment including                  who worked for NSW
Health and was sadly suspended and is still not practising medicine. In a pandemic, wouldn't
it be appropriate to throw everything at it and tap into every doctors' experiences and
successes?

The suppression of early treatment options (including Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin)
was required as the vaccines would not have been approved under emergency use
authorisation. The TGA even banned the prescribing of Ivermectin for Covid even through it
was safe. This point needs to be pursued and the Australian public need answers.

The other concern was the inaction relating to the TGA's DAEN adverse event notification
database. With so many adverse events and deaths, there were certainly safety signals that
other vaccines have been taken off the market for. There were deaths of children that were
not captured as was shown by a FOI request - TGA covered up vaccine deaths of a 7 & 9 year
  Id - St : c Gerar Rer lick. It's probably not related, but 96% of the TGA is funded by the
pharmaceutical industry they regulate. And 50% of the vaccine committee members from
the TGA declared a conflict of interest as was shown in the British Medical Journal report -
From FDA to MHRA: are drug regulators for hire? | The BMJ.

The control of information has been interesting during the pandemic. Most of what was
branded misinformation has now been proven to be true. The Trusted News Initiative that
our ABC is a part of needs to be reviewed as the evidence is mounting that it's reach and
suppression went beyond the bounds of journalism which should be asking the questions. In
the ABC, journalism is dead. The ABC therefore, did not act in the best interests of the
Australian public and I no longer watch it. Breaking: Landmark Lawsuit Slaps Legacy Media
With Antitrust, First Amendment Claims for Censoring COVID-Related Content • Children's
Health Defense (childrenshealthdefense.org). Royal commission please. Thank you.
