I am writing to you regarding the inquiry into the COVID-19 response.

I believe there is a better way to respond to a pandemic than how Australia and other developed
democracies have responded.

Firstly, traditionally established protocols for pandemics in Australia were not implemented,
instead, we had mass lockdowns, forced quarantine for the healthy, experimental vaccine
mandates, reduced staffing in all sectors, uninformed consent / forced or coerced vaccinations,
mask mandates, detrimental business closures, detrimental school closures, invasive procedures,
overreaching state premiers, etc etc. There needs to be an extensive independent investigation
into each area mentioned. Emails between agencies involved in the COVID Vaccine rollout
(including health, minister at TGA and other medicine authorities and state ministers) need to be
investigated and made public. Transparency and accountability must be maintained if you are to
have integrity as a government and trust of the people.

Secondly, we needed alternative approaches for health and wellbeing promoted , as well as
doctors that would advocate for their patients, not just told to do nothing and go to hospital
when you're having problems breathing. Natural therapies like nutritional support (vitamin D and
zinc) supplementation for good health and improved immune function as well as natural
immunity were dismissed. Why was this the case? There has been plenty of research done on the
errors of that approach.
Instead, we had the one size fits all approach of the vaccine mandate and do what I say approach
by both private and public sectors.

Doctors were discouraged from using their professional advice due to it being different to the
government. Government and other regulatory bodies, have disciplined doctors and nurses and
other healthcare professionals for maintaining their ethical medical standards and practices. Look
into all the doctors and nurses that lost their livelihoods during the time of the pandemic and
their unfair dismissal often with defamation charges.

The government and other regulatory bodies have also disciplined individuals for exercising their
conscientious objection to an experimental injection and other protocols.
No jab, no pay is not a very nice logo.

The government and other regulatory agencies used media to propagate fear, instead of
encouraging good health practices (maybe keeping essential services like churches open and
closing non-essential - liquor stores) and finding encouraging words to share with the public
instead of the number of cases of COVID.

That brings me to what has been coined 'the elephant in the room': the vaccinations. This report
attached explains it well. This is a published report. Sorry I couldn't attach the PDF
https://worldcouncilforhealth.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/ll/Pharmacovigilance-Report-
22.01.23-LR.pdf

The application for help after having adverse reactions by the vaccine and being denied
assistance also needs scrutiny, as does the excess deaths that are still occurring but not
investigated. Pharmaceutical companies have been given indemnities yet citizens are paying the
price.

The government has the duty to protect our right to work.


                                                1
Decisions, like not allowing businesses like                    do mowing during the pandemic
need investigation. Who made these decisions? Decisions like not allowing nurses, teachers,
priests and builders.... to work because they were not vaccinated needs scrutiny. There is such a
need for these professionals, but livelihoods were lost and others suffered due to the shortage.

The Australian government should have been upholding the law, to protect the citizens and
ensure that no one is discriminated against for not having been vaccinated. Did the government
uphold the rights of it citizens? I'd say losing your job because you don't want to get the vaccine
is discrimination (https://rumble.com/vm6tgd-qantas-pilot-speaks-out-about-vaccine-
mandate.html).
Many people were waiting for ethical options that are safety tested properly instead of being
involved in the largest experiment in history.

We also had patients in hospitals or those in aged care facilities during 'lockdown' suffering from
loneliness and lack of care. People were dying without their loved ones around them. Many
studies show the need for humans to stay connected... physically, biologically, mentally,
emotionally and spiritually. Loneliness is rampant and often depression is a consequence.
What groups in society have been affected by the choices of our government over this time?
Organisations like Lifeline and Vinnies can testify to the changes in emotional and economic
needs that have occurred over the course of the pandemic.

People had been expected to "follow the science" when it came to making personal health
decisions during the pandemic ... so long as the science "follows" the mainstream narrative. But
what happens when the "science" deviates? An example: an international team of researchers
from institutions including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) now claim that mRNA
COVID shots supress the immune system..
(https://www.researchgate.net/publication/357994624 Innate Immune Suppression by SARS-
CoV-2 mRNA Vaccinations The role of G-quadruplexes exosomes and microRNAs)
Now there is an increased risk of a wide range of life-altering health problems, especially now
with the knowledge that the         shots were contaminated with DNA from the production
process. Many other health issues have been identified. Is the government open to looking at
these new health problems to find solutions? For transparency the scrutiny of emails of Health
ministers and drug authoriser and other communication devices needs to be top priority.

How thorough, transparent and honest the government is, will be reflected in how the public are
treated, especially those affected directly by procedures and mandates, the sick, injured and
those forced into unemployment and poverty now and in the future.

Will the public be treated with dignity and respect with the government learning lessons in
service as should be the case for all democratic societies?

Australians understand this issue is much greater than COVID-19 injections and pandemic
restrictions.
Australians understand this is about some of the fundamental principles of Australian
democracy: freedom of speech, individual autonomy and the right to choose our own fate.

Thank you for considering my submission.




                                                  2
