I DO NOT support this Covid Enquiry.

I am absolutely terrified of a repeat of the pandemic and I believe that we are 100% on track to
repeat it. A full, independent Royal Commission will be essential if we are to avoid this.

But not now, we are not ready for it yet. And not this sham of a Covid Enquiry. To limit the scope by
excluding the States is a clear indication that this is nothing more than a political witch hunt. What a
disgrace that even after all of the (considerable!) harms of Australia's shameful covid response (both
sides of politics), you still see it fit to play political games with it.

If we don't come to terms with what we did wrong (and make no mistake: we did everything wrong)
it is not only a risk that we will make the same mistakes again, but a certainty. If you still claim that
you did nothing wrong, then are you not obliged to do the same thing again? And dutifully playing
the part of the idiot people, are we not obliged to go along with it again?

All of our institutions failed us during Covid. The government, the politicians, the media, the police,
the legal profession, the courts, the medical profession, the pharmaceutical industry, the so-called
independent bodies like AHPRA and the TGA. Judges, lawyers, doctors, the people that call
themselves journalists, policemen, politicians ... to a man they all failed us.

The Government said they knew what to do, even though the only thing they actually did know for
sure is that they had no clue. They had absolutely no idea whatsoever, and yet they assumed full
responsibility for solving a problem that they couldn't solve, and shouldn't try to solve.

There was no opposition in government, and in society it was mocked, silenced and brutally crushed.
Democracy was cancelled. Human rights were not even an afterthought. Fear was a religion. Science
was anti-science. History was ignored.

Australia holds itself up as a bastion of liberal democratic values. A society that values freedom of
speech and diversity of opinion and belief. A society that respects human rights and protects
minorities.

We are none of those things and we did none of those things.

In fact, we barely blinked an eye while we did the exact opposite. And the biggest disgrace of all: the
cowardly populace.

This nation, and indeed the Western world's, biggest problem is hypocrisy. There has to be a
reckoning, but this Covid Enquiry is not it. It is just more farce and hypocrisy. Do you really think
you're fooling anyone anymore? The jig is up mate.
