 am a                         with 20 years of experience. I am highly skilled health worker,
who has had a diverse range of roles and opportunities through out my career. I was
mandated for the covid-19 vaccine in October 2021. I was doing ongoing research as I
wanted to know if the vaccine was safe and effective. From early on, I knew it was not.

•   A vaccine takes on minimum 7 years to go through the trial phases. Never before had
    the human race been the trial phase. There was no long term data and very minimal
    short term data. As I was working in a^^^Hunit, I started to see the side effects of
    these vaccines - massive spikes in                     blood clots, heart attacks and
    strokes.
•   had to be legally forced to show their data and evidence. 1200 side effects. Never
    have I given a medication with pages and pages of side effect and many were very
    serious. Since I was mandated I have seen from the vaccines
                                                                       cardiac diseases,
    mental health changes. Our mortality rate as a nation has jumped since the vaccines,
    and they are not due to COVID. As per our ABS.
•   Informed consent was not given. How can it be informed when the side effects weren't
    released. I asked to be able to give informed consent and no. Instead, I was stood down.
•   When have we vaccinated an entire population. This has never been done before.



•   The vaccine mandates did not work. It did not stop the spread of covid. In places where
    only the vaccinated were permitted to go. Look at the cruise ships - only the vaccinated
    are allowed on them and they keep having covid outbreaks.
•   A virus as it evolves becomes more infectious but causes less severe illness.
•   The overreach from Australian Bureaucrats and governments was dictatorship in style.
    To cause such unwarranted fear over COVID and the pressure applied to people to give in
    to the get vaccinated agenda was a dark day in Australian History.
•   There is a health care shortage. Which the government and bureaucrats bought on
    themselves. In                still can't go back to work, because I haven't had 2
    vaccines, however those that had their shots 2 years ago, ATAGI state wouldn't be
    effective now.
•   Where does Australia think its going to get all these spare nurses to fill in the gaps? You
    will not find vacant nurses that have my skill level.
•   I have had COVID and have natural immunity, as per my blood results, I'm at less risk to
    the community. As, if you have had the vaccines, you cannot attain natural immunity.



•   The inquiry needs to investigate the state and federal government and the chief health
    officers respone. Also ATAGI, TGA, AMA and APHRA should be investigated for their
    negligence in the vaccines and care and safety for our community.
•   The panel should be made up of independent personnel - like a vaccine manufacturer -
                   Who also was stood down, but has made vaccines for many decades.
    There are many like him, who are the most experienced Australia has to offer and can't
    practice, because they were terminated or reported to a regulatory body for telling the
    truth and protecting their patients.
