14th of December 2023

I give my consent for this submission to be made public.



I am a native born Australian male, 58 years of age, who has been affected profoundly by the
responses taken by both Federal and State governments to the Covid pandemic. I believe that the
responses were over-reaching, unnecessarily authoritarian and not at all proportionate to the actual
disease. This points to a profound failing in governance which is disturbing in the utmost. I
personally suffered a loss of freedom, income and friends. Quite a number of people I know have
been affected both financially and physically from adverse reactions to the injections forced upon
us. I wish never to see such an incompetence foisted upon the people of Australia again. Hence, my
submission below.

Unfortunately, due to the ridiculously short time given for submissions I have been unable to devote
the time to gather evidence for all the points I have made below. Most of it, though, is publicly
available online from reputable sources worldwide. Please take the time to find this.

Firstly, something so important as an investigation on the most disruptive and damaging event in
Australian history since World War Two deserves more than an obviously cobbled and intentionally
weak "inquiry". The reactions of the states must be looked at. This action shouts that those who we
entrust with our nation's governance have absolutely no intention of finding out the truth of the
mismanagement of the Covid response and thus hold us, the citizens of Australia, in utmost
contempt. You have no idea of the absolute anger which is circulating within the Australian people
about the circumstances and decisions surrounding Governmental responses to the pandemic and I
make no distinction between the four major parties in stating this. All suffer from a lack of
transparency fed by an almost sociopathic concern with always appearing to do the right thing even
when doing something which is obviously detrimental to the Australian people and the country as a
whole. Your job is to govern and as our servants (yes, our servants) you must govern for all with
integrity, honesty and transparency. Nothing less than a Royal Commission with very wide terms of
reference will suffice to clear the air on this most shameful chapter of our history. I and many others
demand this.

Accordingly, I call for a thorough investigation of the following:

    •   The constitutionality of denying freedom of movement and bodily autonomy in the form of
        lockdowns and vaccine mandates. That these were swept aside so easily was and is
        profoundly anti-democratic despite the so-called emergency.

    •   The human rights implications of these actions should also be examined, particularly in light
        of the Nuremberg code of 1947. The demand for disclosure of injection status violated
        several international conventions which uphold the right of the individual to refuse medical
        interventions. Declining to take the procedure due to a lack of information on the possible
        effects of the injection resulted in clear discrimination and restrictions on the basis of
        medical status despite the obvious inability of the injection to do its job. This is clearly a
        breach of human rights as well as a number of Acts of Parliament. It effectively punished
        people for upholding their right of informed consent.

    •   The process by which these experimental injections (they are not vaccines as they do not
        stop transmission of the target disease) were authorised in Australia and in particular what
        testing, and the nature of the testing, which was carried out on these drugs. If the drugs

                                                     1
        were accepted without independent Australian testing and are proven to be unfit and even
        dangerous to health, then that is a grave failure of process.

    •   The influence of major drug companies on the decisions of the Therapeutic Drugs
        Administration given that 96% of its revenue is gained from the very organisations it is tasked
        with overseeing.

    •   The economic and social impacts of draconian measures used to enforce government
        dictates for a disease which even early publicly available evidence, from reputable bodies
        such as the Oxford Centre for Evidence Based Medicine, confirmed was not a real threat to
        anyone under 70. As far as can be discerned, the death rate for Covid was less than that of
        the virulent influenza which struck us in 2017.

    •   The information and data upon which the various state and federal governments based their
        decisions to abandon carefully crafted pandemic plans which had been decades in the
        making. There is sufficient evidence now available to say with some certainty that the
        draconian reactions of Australian authorities have resulted in more deaths, disabilities and
        depressions than Covid itself.

    •   The surveillance, propaganda and censorship perpetrated upon Australian citizens voicing
        their concerns about the authoritarian heavy-handedness of authorities of all stripes. This
        allowed the insidious application of indoctrination methods by our governments in the
        unrelenting vilification of those who chose to uphold their human rights by not being
        injected against their will. This has all resulted in a serious and democracy-destroying erosion
        of public trust in the government and many of our cherished institutions. Again, a fact of
        great concern to many Australians.

    •   The actions of AHPRA in censoring and de-registering doctors for upholding the basic tenets
        of their profession rather than follow what have been since proven to be flawed directives.
        That this was done without regards to individual patient circumstances was abominable.
        Where is the data and information which backed up these actions when we were all asked to
        "follow the science"? What is this "science" and does it actually refute alternative science
        from reputable scientists from around the world? Why has it not been released for
        scrutiny?We deserve to know these things!

    •   The ordering process for the injections would seem to have been botched given the
        inordinately high number which was ordered. Never could there have been the possibility of
        the Australian population using the number actually ordered. Simple knowledge of logistics
        could have revealed this. Who is responsible for this cavalier waste and why?


Quite a number of these points would not have been problematic if the original pandemic plan of
targeted intervention had been adhered to.

The absurdly short time allowed for submissions also adds to the suspicion with which the general
public view the intentions and seriousness of the proposers of this inquiry.

I am profoundly disturbed and upset by what I have witnessed and experienced in Australia and
particularly in Victoria over the past four years. Huge flaws in the way we are governed have been
clearly revealed and laws would seem to have little to no effect in safeguarding human rights. In fact,
there would seem to be no real safeguards for the rights of the individual if a government decides
they are inconvenient to their aims. When the requirements of an Act of Parliament, which seemed

                                                   2
very clear to me as someone who had to interpret and implement such things in the course of my
duties on a school executive body, can be blithely dismissed as not being applicable, with no
adequate or meaningful reason given, then it is no wonder that I and many others have lost faith in
our system. This should be of great concern to all Australians.

Since I can remember, I have believed that Australia was a place where an individual was free to
pursue their own interests without undue interference. This whole experience has changed my view
of this country. When someone who has served their country, taking an oath to put themselves in
harm's way for its people, worked hard all of their life and has been a productive member of the
community and society can be vilified, denigrated and humiliated by their employer and the highest
offices of government for doing what they believe is right, then this is not the place I was led to
believe it was. It seems that human rights and the Constitution, the foundation of our existence as a
nation, are worthless and can be swept aside in the pursuit of self-interest. I no longer believe that
many of our institutions and organisations work for the benefit of ordinary people. The closest word
that I can use for my state of mind is to describe it as a state of mourning for what this country once
was and I despair for what this episode portends for the future.

A full and wide-ranging Royal Commission is the only way to analyse what went wrong with our
response, and why, so that we as a freedom loving nation will never again go down the dark path of
authoritarianism we trod during the Covid Pandemic. A whitewashing "inquiry" is an insult to all
Australians and the suffering we underwent during that time. It will further damage our democracy
and the perception the Australian people have of those who we entrust with our democracy. We
demand proper answers, and these can only be discerned through a proper, and thorough, Royal
Commission investigation.



Carey James Moncrieff.




                                                   3
