Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry


  In writting this submission I relie on the "Presumed Right of Communitcation of Political Matters
 espoused by the Australian High Court to be implied in our Constitution.

 Duringthe period over 2020 to 2021 Australia ceased to be a functioninng liberal democracy and instead (defacto)
 became a package of seven Authoritarian feifdoms. Although this was conducted by primarily Sate governments, the
 Commonwealth Government was complicit in this break down of our federal democracy through the following:
  ■ By providing Citizens private medical records contained in the Commowealths vaccine registers, to the State
    Governments the Morrison Government facilitated the State Governments with the infrustructiure to establish
    lockdowns and electronic pasports. This was both an invasion of our medical privacy and a violation of our
    common law rights of free travel and association.

  ■ Australia has ratified both ICESCR Article 6 and Universal Declaration of Human Rights Article 23. that guarrentee
    a right to work. By facilitating the State Governments "no Jab - no work" regieme the Commonwealth Government
    was complicit in the State Governments bullying and therefore complicit in their human rights violations.

  ■ Furthermore, The Morrison Government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation to protect workers and
    so was complicit in the State Governments bullying and therefore complicit in their human rights violations

  ■ Duringthis period the Morrison Government showed a utter lack of political leadership. This allowed many of the
    abusess of power by the State Governments.

  ■ The Prime Minister secretly apointing himself to portfolios was a breakdown of Westminster responsible government
    and a seperate inquiry into his actions in this regard needs to be called.

  ■ By silencing discussio n of Covid treatment options the Commonwealth limited itself to a narrow range of advisors
    Who got it wrong on the effectivness: of lockdowns, so that when the advisors failed they had nowhere to turn.




 This Inquiry should result in the formation of a Royal Commission with wide scope and terms of reference to investigate
 the State and Commonwealth Governments and a seperate investication into                 Actions of Mr Morrison during
 his time as Secret Minister for everything
