Ait: COVID inquiry

I write this submission to the COVID inquiry as a healthcare professional who saw
both staff and patients suffer greatly due to the government’s pandemic response.

It was evident early on the virus was not as deadly as predicted and yet, the
disproportionate, un-necessary & often bizarre restrictions continued to be
recommended and enforced. This caused significant damage to Australian lives,
health, businesses & education as well as left Australians with a profound mistrust in
the advice of the Australian government.

We all know now - NONE of the measures recommended by our government were
necessary & we demand accountability for harms caused.

I would like to address the most harmful measures implemented by the government
against healthcare workers and patients.

Vaccine Mandates
Most health professionals have a background in science. Instead of providing access
to reputable science to support the necessitation of vaccine mandates, we were told
to ‘trust the TV scientists’ who were only offering partial, confusing and sometimes
evidently wrong information to the public.

As a scientist, I knew there was no scientific evidence to suggest that unvaccinated
staff posed such a high risk that their employment should be terminated. No risk
assessment was performed on staff who work in hospitals, provide home care or
work in small home based clinics to justify these mandates.

Vaccine mandates were cruel & un-necessary, particularly, as they were directed at
health care professionals who understood the risks of pharmaceutical products
without long-term safety data & were understandably concerned. The people most
needed in a pandemic were those being thrown under the bus and forced to take an
unreasonable risk, via a novel pharmaceutical product, with their own health and life.

We now know:

   a)      The vaccines don’t prevent transmission

        If both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals can pass on the virus then
        requiring vaccinations was purely political and not a health measure.

        Australian Politicians and TV scientists lied to the public and presented
        information that they did not know to be true. The information was hope - not
        science and as a result Australians are unlikely to trust public health
        information in the future.

        Where is the accountability for lying to the public and then shaming them for
        nquestioning what was obviously false & misleading information?
   b)      The Variants are mild

        Vaccine mandates are completely outrageous for a virus that has proven little
        more than a common cold for both vaccinated and unvaccinated. Thankfully,
        most people have had covid by now and have personally experienced its
        mildness and unlikely to agree that the vaccine is even mildly necessary.

        This is why people are angry. Particularly, those who have suffered due to the
        vaccine with strange reactions and unexplained symptoms post vaccine.

   c) Mandates have resulted in a catastrophic loss of valuable doctors and
      nurses and community based services

All Australians have suffered due to these mandates with the loss of valuable
doctors, nurses and therapists. Almost every Australian has been impacted by this in
some way.

In my physiotherapy clinic, we had                   member collapse following the
vaccine with vaccine-induced myocarditis. Another staff member had to resuscitate
her which was incredibly traumatic for staff. Following this trauma and the mandate
requirement, 3 other staff members resigned leaving us under-staffed and unable to
provide critical care to patients rehabilitation from illness.

This staff member who developed vaccine-induced myocarditis was unable to work
for more than 6 months and is stil^tigued and unable to work more than a few
hours at a time. Her life, as a      professional (and also a            will never
be the same because of these unnecessary mandates. The damage caused by the
vaccine was not worth the mild illness she was told by the government she had to
protect herself from and now knows it would never have made any difference to the
patients she cares about (as it does not prevent transmission).

These measures forced our most experienced doctors into early retirement and saw
good health professionals side-lined and willing but, unable to work due to
unreasonable and un-necessary government requirement.

My^^^^^^^vorked in administration for a public hospital and did most of her
work from home. The mandate included her which was completely unscientific with
no risk assessment performed to determine her level of risk e.g. home alone! After
          as a respected employee, she is now unemployed as she understood the
requirement was unreasonable and chose her health & family first.
My GP, in he^^^left the profession when she started to see the number of
vaccine injuries presented at the clinic. She told me she got into medicine because
of her care for patients and her conscience would no longer allow her to follow
government guidelines at the expense of her patients health & safety. She was an
amazing GP and well loved and respected in my local community. What a loss.

My other               is                 and was re-deployed to a vaccine clinic.
Instead of doing a job she loves she was forced to do the menial task of providing
vaccinations instead of providing the highly specialised care she was trained to
provide. The enforcement of vaccines and vaccine clinics created a huge burden on
the health care system by removing staff from crucial roles to staff these covid
injection clinics that are now proven to have no significant impact on transmission.

Lastly,                 birth to her^^^^R during the pandemic. She gave birth
alone due to the government restrictions. She was terrified and describes the birthing
unit being so frantic because instead of husbands or family members providing some
post-partum support all of the patients had to ask staff to help them. This meant that
staff were completely overwhelmed because of this government policy forced to
provide not only medical care but, emotional care for post-partum women usually
provided by family & visitors. How traumatic for everyone (and now proven to be
completely un-necessary).

Lastly, the censoring of scientific information that did not align with government
‘science’ was what alarmed me, as a scientist, the most. It was evident that the
government was aligning itself with pharmaceutical companies & social media
entities instead of listening to the concerns & voices of the Australian people.

It’s time for the Australian government to listen to the Australian people instead of
trying to please corporate entities.
I hope the government will be held accountable for harms caused particularly to
health professionals and the health industry.
Sincerely,


Senior Physiotherapist BA science
