I am writing to submit my experiences and concerns for consideration in the Commonwealth
Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry with regards to key health response measures and
mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations.

My submission pertains to the strong coercion to take a covid vaccine to retain employment
at my workplace and the failure of the Federal Government to protect our rights to bodily
sovereignty.

Key Health Response Measures

I am an Australian citizen, with basic human rights to bodily sovereignty and autonomy,
which I thought were also enshrined in the Australian Constitution and guaranteed by many
other international codes on Human Rights and bioethics to which Australia is a signatory.

Why did the Federal Government abandon our basic human rights when States and
employers were mandating (as a ‘policy”, to which one must adhere or lose their job)
provisionally approved novel covid injections to employees, with no long term or even short­
term side effect studies (including no genotoxicity or carcinogenicity studies), which were
breaches of our basic human rights to bodily autonomy?

I will refer to a FairWork statement earlier that an employer could not mandate covid
vaccinations - Source:
https://www.fwc.gov.au/documents/decisionssigned/html/2021fwcfb6015.htm7fbclidHwA
R0QdMXk-DP_2kin6Jz3bfyDHGuqREb2WT4xFT9fCUyHv21aGEQsQ2OukJw

From Section [110] onwards the statement is VERY SPECIFIC about a covid vaccine
mandate and the fact that any such mandate would violate an Australian citizen's rights under
the Australian Constitution and other international laws and codes.

So, what happened here?

In this free country??

How were private bosses and corporations able to dictate what medications people put into
their bodies? Bosses who were not medical specialists, nor doctors, under the guise of
'policy', a company policy should not be able extend to your medical choices and breach the
constitution or international human rights and bioethics codes.

Vice President Hatcher and Commissioner Riordan of FairWork are not legal novices, and
their interpretation of an employee’s rights (as mentioned above) would not have been a
misinterpretation on their behalf, so what happened to our legal rights?

Yet again I would have thought the Federal Government is there to stop this kind of coercion
being wrought upon its citizens.

The potential for medical disaster should be obvious given mistakes made with novel
medications in the past (hence why bioethics codes exist) and coercion or disadvantage
individuals may face in the workplace due to vaccination requirements deserves careful
examination, in my opinion this practice of covid (or other) vaccine mandates should be
firmly outlawed in light of the high amount injuries and deaths reported to the TGA's DAEN
system.

Why did the Federal Government allow such a state of affairs to happen in the first place?

The extreme coercion to take a Covid 19 vaccine - no matter what your personal medical
circumstance - especially a novel vaccine rushed through to provisional approval without any
long-term studies or thoroughly investigated side effects, would have seemed inconceivable
to me in 2019. Not in a free country like Australia.

In fact, if this vaccine was just voluntary, there wouldn't be this mess, so why did the Federal
Government allow such behaviour?


Mechanisms to Better Target Future Responses

The extreme coercion to take a Covid 19 vaccine - no matter what your personal medical
circumstance - especially a novel vaccine rushed through to provisional approval without any
long-term studies or thoroughly investigated side effects, would have seemed inconceivable
to me in 2019. Not in a free country like Australia.

Yet again, if this vaccine was just voluntary, there wouldn't be this mess, why did the Federal
Government not step in to protect its citizens? Many are reported dead or injured due to the
TGA’s DAEN, which is a large-scale early warning system, upon such a signal the
medication should have been withdrawn at the first hint of danger and other alternatives
explored... NONE OF THAT HAPPENED... yet the mandates were still allowed to push on
via ‘policy” in workplaces.

In my own workplace an employee (in one of our offices, interstate) had already been
hospitalised with vaccine confirmed pericarditis, you'd think the mandate would have ceased
on Occupational Health and Safety grounds instantly. Yet the dangerous policy of mandates
was still pushed regardless. Surely the madness of this situation cannot be allowed to repeat.

I believe no one should be coerced into such a situation, especially where no regard or respect
has been given to bodily autonomy, long term side effects, serious side effects, a person's
own unique medical situation or the fact that once Covid has been contracted the recovered
person now has natural immunity.

No one should be threatened with job loss or harassed by their employer to take a novel
medication to retain their employment - especially in light that this medication does not stop
contraction or transmission, and the fact that these products are at best investigational with no
long term or even short-term safety studies to establish side effects or potential death.

The future mechanisms to better target future responses should first and foremost be devoid
of any medical “mandates”, especially new medical technology, and any push by an
employer to mandate should result in severe legal reprimand by the Federal Government.

Future responses should also allow a doctor and his or her patient to consult and decide on
the best course of treatment without regulatory interference from AHPRA or the TGA.
Messaging such as ‘safe and effective” should be clearer to spell out the unknowns of long­
term side effects and unknown outcomes, ‘safe and effective” was a scientific impossibility
from the start, as the technology was novel and the clinical trials were extremely brief.

My submission with regards to key health response measures and mechanisms to better target
future responses ends here.

Thank you for your time
