                  ARACY
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
ARACY Submission
December 2023


About ARACY
For over 20 years ARACY - Australian Research Alliance for Children and Youth - has been bringing
people and knowledge together, to make change for the benefit of children and young people.
ARACY is unique in linking all areas of wellbeing for children, young people, and their families.

           We believe all children and young people should have the opportunity to thrive.

We strive to achieve this by championing evidence-based policy and practice, while forging alliances
between government, policy making, research, philanthropy and service delivery with a focus on
prevention, early support and engagement. We work for the creation of better systems and
supportive environments, and to grow capability across the sector, improving outcomes for children
and young people.


About the Nest
The Nest, Australia's wellbeing framework for children and young people is a way of thinking about
the whole child in the context of their daily lives. Originally informed by the voices of over 4,000
children, young people, and experts, the Nest was developed by ARACY in partnership with 150
organisations between 2010 and 2012 and is regularly refreshed incorporating feedback from
practitioners, children and their families. The Nest shows for a child to thrive their needs must be
met in six key, interlocking areas.


    1.      Being Valued, Loved, and Safe
    2.      Having Material Basics
    3.      Being Healthy (physically, mentally, emotionally)
    4.      Learning (within and outside the classroom)
    5.      Participating (in decisions, groups, community)
    6.      Having a Positive Sense of Identity and Culture

Wellbeing can be thought of as a child or young person having everything they need to thrive and
reach their full potential. It encompasses all areas of a child's life, which are linked and
interdependent.

Learn more at www.aracy.org.au




                                               Australian Research Alliance for Children & Youth
                                                              GPO Box 2807, Canberra City, ACT 26
                                                 T: (02) 6204 1610 E: enquiries@aracy.org.au     : ar<   .au

                                                                                             A    68
Q0 ARACY
Summary of Recommendations

What worked well


Financial support for families

    >   We commend the the financial support provided for families during the COVID-19 pandemic
        of which Australia was a global leader. In the event of a future pandemic, this will be an
        essential mechanism to offset the detrimental effects of poverty and parental
        unemployment on child wellbeing.


ECEC

    >   The Early Education and Care Relief Package was a highly effective and commendable
        method to support children and the ECEC sector during the pandemic and it or equivalent
        should be implemented in the event of future national crises.


Addressing specific pandemic-related challenges


Mental health

    >   Work in partnership with children and young people to foster postive mental health and
        wellbeing literacy throughout and following pandemics, and recognise the value of
        embedding this learning in formal education to empower them to be resilient in the face of
        current and future challenges.

Education

    >   Catch up packages have been utilised to respond to educational inequities and projected to
        be cost-effective, and likely represent an appropriate opportunity to address the widened
        educational inequities arising from this and future pandemics.

    >   Ensure equitable access to internet in the event of future pandemics to facilitate remote
        learning noting accessibility challenges for children and families in rural and remote areas,
        First Nations families, and families with disadvantaged background.

    >   Respond to current increases in school absenteeism through an evidence-based, multi-tiered
        approach and recognise the ineffectiveness of punitive approaches.

    >   Recognise ECEC staff as a priority population for immunisation in the event of future
        pandemics.


Employment

    >   Prioritise employment programs targeted at young people that counter the negative effects
        of the 'gig economy', insecure work, and underemployment throughout and in the
        aftermath of pandemics.




                                                                                                        2
Qt ARRCY
Family violence

    >   Increase the resourcing and promotion of domestic violence supports across communities
        and services throughout and in the aftermath of pandemics.

    >   Partner with children and young people who have witnessed family violence to better
        understand how they can be identified and supported in the event of future pandemics,
        recognising these children currently fall through a service gap.

Discrimination

    >   Invest in understanding and addressing racism and discrimination in Australia arising in the
        context of a pandemic in partnership with young Australians with lived experience.


Children and young people as stakeholders

    >   Ensure that children and young people have a dedicated space to have a say about their
        needs and challenges in the event of future pandemics.

    >   Continue to support and expand child-friendly methods of communication in media,
        especially during future pandemics, and enhance this by doing so in partnership with
        children and young people.


Building resilience for the future


Invest in the first 2000 days

    >   Prevent the widening of educational gaps in the event of future pandemics by supporting
        policies that proactively reduce inequities in child development, including: universal
        participation in antenatal care, participation in high quality ECEC, sustained nurse home
        visiting, targeted parenting programs, and supporting children in the early years of school.

Consultation and codesign

    >   Support a sustained and consistent approach to consultation and codesign with children and
        young people of diverse lived experience in the conceptualisation, design, development,
        implementation, and monitoring of policies, programs, and services that affect them. This
        should be embedded in processes and culture across governments, non-governmental
        organisation, research institutions, service providers, philanthropic organisations, and other
        stakeholders whose work impacts upon the lives of children and young people.




                                                                                                         3
            ARACY
Lessons Learned

Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive
health measures).

Suport children's mental health

For children, the most significant health effects of the pandemic have related to stress and mental
health. Fear for family members, the effects of lockdowns, and the general impacts of lost income,
parental stress, and family upheaval are expected to be the greatest pandemic burden on children's
health. This is evident in higher rates of psychological distress throughout the pandemic compared
to pre-pandemic. Supporting children's mental health and resilience now is an important way to
prepare ourselves for the future.

To do this, children and young people have asked to learn how to support their own mental health
and wellbeing, as well as their peers (ARACY, unpublished). Children, young people, and their
families have also recognised the potential for schools to equip young people with these skills. Doing
so is also consistent Mparntwe Declaration which includes supporting children to become resilient
and develop the skills and strategies they need to tackle current and future challenge (Department
of Education, 2019).

We therefore recommend that understanding and maintaining wellbeing and mental health be
incorporated to a greater extent into formal education, from early childhood education through to
secondary school, to empower children and young people to develop the skills they need to navigate
current and future challenges. Accountability for this could be enhanced by incorporating the
monitoring and supporting of student wellbeing into the national policy initiatives of the next
National School Report Agreement to facilitate a consistent national approach to student wellbeing.


    >   Work in partnership with children and young people to foster mental health and wellbeing
        literacy, recognising the value of embedding this learning in formal education, to empower
        them to be resilient in the face of current and future challenges.


Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

Continue to be a glober leader for cash transfer packages for families
Australia was a world leader in terms of cash transfer packages to families during COVID-19, and we
commend this response by government. However, in Australia as well as globally, fiscal stimulus for
business exceeded direct support to families despite evidence that his it more effective than
mitigating poverty and child wellbeing.


    >   Australia should strive to continue to be a glober leader for cash transfer packages for
        families in the event of future pandemics.




                                                                                                      4
Q0 ARACY
Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing
and homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of
Commonwealth Government responsibility).

Continue to provide support for the early childhood education and care sector (ECEC)


    >   The Early Education and Care Relief Package or equivalent was a highly effective and
        commendable method to support children and the ECEC sector during the pandemic and
        should be implemented in the event of future crises.


Address educational inequities exacerbated by this and future pandemics

Inequities in educational outcomes apparent prior to the pandemic have been exacerbated. This
requires an immediate response to support children who were left behind in the pandemic to 'catch
up', as well as broader reform to ensure that formal education mitigates rather than exacerbated
inequitable educational outcomes. Factors throughout the pandemic contributing to the
exacerbation of educational inequities include varying access to internet and increased school
absenteeism following the pandemic.

Australia noted a marked decrease in school attendance in 2022 (Clark, 2023). Risk factor for school
refusal such as stressful life events, family illness, fear or harm, and friendship difficulties were
markedly enhanced throughout the pandemic (Clark, 2023). Addressing school refusual is an
important mechanism to reduce educational inequity and support learning among young
Australians. Punitive approaches have been demonstrated to be counter-productive; instead, a
multi-tiered approach combining both universal and targeted interventions is needed (Clark, 2023).

To address current inequities:

'Catch-up packages' involving enhanced learning supports have been utilised in Victoria and NSW
with economic modelling predicting high return on investment NSW (Sonnemann & Goss, 2020). To
address current inequities, we point to these catch up packages as a possible immediate response,
pending their effectiveness in states already using them.


    >   Catch up packages have been utilised to respond to enhanced educational inequities and
        projected to be cost-effective, and likely represent an appropriate tertiary response to
        future crises.


    >   Respond to current increases in school absenteeism through an evidence-based, multi-tiered
        approach and recognise the ineffectiveness of punitive approaches.


In event of future pandmics:

An exacerbating factor for educational inequities is the reduced internet accessibility among families
from disadvantaged background and those living in rural and remote areas. To illustrate, 1% of
children the top third of wealthiest families had no home internet compared to 9% of families in the
lowest third of incomes, while 21% of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander families and 45% of
students in the Northern Territory had no access to internet (Preston, 2020).




                                                                                                        5
Q0 ARRCY
    >   Ensure equitable access to internet in the event of future pandemics to facilitate remote
        learning noting accessibility challenges for children and families in rural and remote areas,
        First Nations families, and families with disadvantaged background.


To create more equitable education systems:

Creating more a equitable education systems will mitigate the impact of future pandemics on
widening inequities. Educational inequities are apparent at the commencement of formal schooling
with gaps continuing to widen throughout the school years. Addressing this requires supports
throughout the first 2000 days of a child's life to enhance school readiness at the commencement of
school as well as educational reform to give all children the opportunity to thrive at school.
Restacking the Odds is a collaborative effort addressing inequities in children's (Centre for
Community Child Health, 2023). This collaboration has identified five key levers for reducing
inequities for children: excellent antenatal care, participation in high quality early childhood
education and care; sustained nurse home visiting, targeted parenting programs, and supporting
children in the early years of school (up to Year 3).


    >   Prevent the widening of educational gaps in the event of future pandemics by supporting
        policies that proactively reduce inequities in child development, including: universal
        participation in antenatal care, participation in high quality ECEC, sustained nurse home
        visiting, targeted parenting programs, and supporting children in the early years of school.


Counter and provide support for family violence
Many parents report an increase in stress trying to manage work, home-educating their children,
and financial strain throughout the pandemic. Some parents have felt isolated and unsupported
throughout the pandemic. Unsuprisingly, these stressors likely contributed to a marked increase in
family violence throughout the pandemic. Additionally, a significant gap has been identified for
children who witness or experience family violence but who do not activate child protection
involvement, as there is currently no mechanism or agency to activate supports for these children.


    >   Increase the resourcing and promotion of domestic violence supports across communities
        and services in the event of future pandemics.


    >   Partner with children and young people who have witnessed family violence to better
        understand how they can be identified and supported in the event of future pandemics,
        recognising these children currently fall through a service gap.


Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
(including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
linguistically diverse communities).

Consider children and young people as distinct stakeholder in future pandemics

Three quarters of young people felt that children and young people had not been considered equal
stakeholders in the pandemic response (Sonnemann & Goss, 2020). Half felt insufficient effort had
been put into commicating effectively with children and young people, and just over 4 in 10 (43%)
felt confused due to conflicting information (UNICEF Australia, 2020).


                                                                                                        6
Q0 ARRCY

Children and young people should be involved in the conceptualisation, design, development,
implementation, and monitoring of policies, research, and services including pandemic and other
crisis reponses that affect them. Doing so is an empowering experience for children and young
people and can support them feel safe and supported during future pandemics.


    >   Ensure that children and young people have a dedicated space to have a say about their
        needs and challenges in the event of future pandemics.


    >   Continue to support and expand child-friendly methods of communication in media,
        especially during future pandemics, and enhance this by doing so in partnership with
        children and young people.


Support and protect young people experiencing racism


Increased experiences of racism through both verbal and physical attacks occurred during the
pandemic (Harris, Seriamlu, Dakin, & Sollis, 2021). Young multicultural people aged 16 to 25 years in
Victoria were surveyed with 85% of the 376 participants reporting at least one episode of racism
(such as name calling, hitting, being excluded from activities, being threatened, experiencing poor
service and unfair treatment) and a third (32%) reporting seven or more episodes (Doery, Guerra,
Kenny, Harriott, & Priest, 2020). Young people age 15 to 19 years identified equity and
discrimination as the second top issue of national concern, above mental health, in the most recent
Mission Australia Youth Survey (2023).


    >   Invest in understanding and addressing racism and discrimination in Australia arising in the
        context of a pandemic in partnership with young Australians.


Other recommendations


Vaccinations for ECEC workers

The omission of vaccination of early childhood education and care workers as a priority group is
considered a missed opportunity, given their position as frontline workers and significant flow-on
effects of inadequate staffing in the event of local COVID-19 outbreaks. We therefore recommend
that ECEC workers be included as a priority group for vaccination in the event of future pandemics.


    >   Recognise ECEC staff as a priority population for immunisation in the event of future
        pandemics.


Employment support for young workers

Young people, women, and low-wage workers were overrepresented in the insecure job market that
was most heavily affected by the pandemic and demonstrated the slowest recovery (Nahum &
Stanford, 2020). Industries such as hospitality, retail, and arts were hit hardest by the pandemic
restrictions so had disproportionately negative impacts on young workers concentrated in these in
sectors. High levels of unemployment also affect disproportionately affect career trajectories of
young people as they are unable to compete with applicants with more experience. Ensuring



                                                                                                       7
qP ARRCY
adequate employment supports for young people on emerging from this and future pandemics is an
important response to ensure young people remain engaged in employment.


    >   Prioritise employment programs targeted at young people that counter the negative effects
        of the 'gig economy', insecure work, and underemployment.


Useful References

As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, ARACY partnered with UNICEF Australia to
produce the following report of particular relevance to this inquiry:

Kids at the Crossroads: Evidence and Policy to Mitigate the Effects of COVID-19. ARACY 2021

ARACY and UNICEF also partnered to produce an urgent call to action outlining a six-step pathway
for children and young people out of the pandemic linked here and attached to this report:

An Urgent Call to Refocus Australia's Pathway Out of COVID-19 Pandemic to the Needs of Children
and Young People. UNICEF Australia and ARACY.

Much of this submission has been based on the findings and recommendations within these reports.
Please refer to them for further detail.




                                                                                                    8
Qt ARACY
References
ARACY. (unpublished). Young and Wise: A review of what children and young people say they need to thrive.
           ACT: ARACY.
Centre for Community Child Health. (2023, January). Restacking the Odds. Retrieved from www.rch.org.au:
           https://www.rch.org.au/ccch/Restacking_the_Odds/
Clark, S. (2023, April 19). School Refusal. Retrieved from ahp.gov.au:
           https://www.aph.gov.au/About_Parliament/Parliamentary_departments/Parliamentary_Library/pubs
           /rp/rp2223/School Refusal
Department of Education. (2019). The Alice Springs (Mparntwe) Education Declaration. Department of
           Education. Retrieved from https://www.dese.gov.au/alice-springs-mparntwe-education-
           declaration/resources/alice-springs-mparntwe-education-declaration
Doery, K., Guerra, G., Kenny, E., Harriott, L., & Priest, N. (2020). Hidden Cost: Young multicultural Victorians
           and C0VID19.. Melbourne: Centre for Multicultural Youth.
Economics, D. A. (2018). Analysis of the impact of raising benefit rates. Australian Council of Social Services.
           Retrieved from https://www.acoss.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/DAE-Analysis-of-the-impact-
           of-raising-benefit-rates-FINAL-4-September-...-l.pdf
Harris, D., Seriamlu, S., Dakin, P., & Sollis, K. (2021). Kids at the Crossroads: Evidence and Policy to Mitigate the
           Effects of COVID-19. Canberra, ACT: ARACY. Retrieved from https://www.aracy.org.au/publications-
           resources/command/download_file/id/432/filename/Kids_at_The_Crossroads_FI NAL_Feb_2021.pdf
Littleton, E., & Campbell, R. (2022). Bearing the Brunt: Youth employment and the pandemic in New South
           Wales. Retrieved from https://australiainstitute.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/P1169-NSW-
           youth-employment-report-WEB.pdf
Mission Australia. (2022). Youth Survey.
Mission Australia. (2023). Youth Survey. Retrieved from https://www.missionaustralia.com.au/what-we-
           do/research-impact-policy-advocacy/youth-survey
Nahum, D., & Stanford, J. (2020). 2020 Year-End Labour Market Review: Insecure work and the COVID-19
           pandmeic. The Australia Institute. Retrieved from https://futurework.org.au/wp-
           content/uploads/sites/2/2022/ll/Year-End_Labour_Market_2020.pdf
National Children's Commissioner. (2022). 'Mental health shapes my life': COVID-19 & kids' wellbeing 2022.
           Retrieved from https://humanrights.gov.au/our-work/childrens-rights/publications/mental-health-
           shapes-my-life-covid-19-kids-wellbeing-2022
Preston, B. (2020). Addressing digital inclusion for all public school students. Australian Education Union.
           Retrieved from https://www.aeufederal.org.au/news-media/news/2020/addressing-digital-inclusion-
           all-public-school-students-report
Sollis, K. (2019). To have and to have not: Measuring child deprivation and opportunity in Australia. Canberra,
           ACT: ARACY. Retrieved from https://www.aracy.org.au/publications-
           resources/area?command=record&id=282
Sonnemann, J., & Goss, P. (2020). COVID catch-up: helping disadvantaged students close the eguity gap.
           Grattan Institute.
UNICEF Australia. (2020). "Living in Limbo": how COVID-19 is impacting young people in Australia . UNICEF
           Australia. Retrieved from https://www.unicef.org.au/Upload/UNICEF/Media/Documents/UNICEF-
           COVID-19-Living-in-Limbo-2020.pdf
United Nations. (1989). Convention on the Rights of the Child. United Nations. Retrieved from
           https://www.ohchr.org/en/professionalinterest/pages/crc.aspx
Walsh, L., Gallo Cordoba, B., Waite, C., & Cutler, B. (2022). The 2022 Australian Youth Barometer:
           Understanding Young People in Australia Today. Monash Centre for Youth Policy and Education
           Practice.




                                                                                                                   9
