By June 2021, date from the US-based VAERS showed more people died from the Covid vaccination in the
previous 6 months than the combined total of ALL the people who had died from EVERY vaccination in
existence for the last 20 years. The same result was seen on the TGA DAEN, yet the government actively
bullied and threatened doctors who spoke out while also coercing the general public to get vaccinated without
warning them of the possibility of adverse reactions.

Additionally, frontline medical staff and highly skilled specialists had spoken out against using ventilators to
treat covid patients, the government ignored them resulting in more deaths.

Use of the PCR test was a direct contributor to the exaggerated number of cases. Kary Mullis, the inventor of
the PCR test, had explicitly stated that the PCR test was not designed to diagnose or test for infectious diseases
and would lead to false positives, yet the government continued to mandate the use of it.

Documents obtained through the Freedom of Information Act show that back in March, 2021, the CDC and US
government officials were aware that myocarditis and blood clotting were common adverse events associated
with the mRNA vaccines. Given that the Australian government was in close contact with US officials during
this time, it stands to reason that they would also have been aware of this fact, yet they continued to push the
vaccine on an unsuspecting public. Even worse, they obscured, obstructed and twisted the truth in an effort to
conceal the dangers.


Lockdowns did far more damage than any virus and were used in the most ludicrous situations. As an example,
by March 2021, the coronavirus death toll for Queensland stood 7, 5 of whom were people in their 90s, and 2 in
their 80s. This is a normal death rate for the elderly!!!!! Yet, the Greater Brisbane area entered the second
lockdown for the year and masks were compulsory for all of Queensland.

The government and health officials knew these masks did nothing to stop the spread as the coronavirus droplets
were so small, they could easily pass through the weave of the masks, yet people were being fined for not
wearing masks!

The government employed a culture of fear, cover-up and harassment to control, cow and coerce the public into
submission. Businesses went bust. Jobs were lost. Lives were lost.

Two children                      :ommitted suicide in the very first Qld lockdown, as did a mother of another
family and a father of yet another family. That's just 4 people I know of.

As for harm caused by this vaccine, I have one^^^^^^l years old) with myocarditis, one                        [years
old) with blood clots and bleeding on the brain, and anothe         ^^^^Hyears old) unable to walk more than
50 metres without having to stop and catch his breath. I also have a^^Hwith rapid onset diabetes, and another
with rapid onset arthritis since taking the vaccine. My neighbour regularly falls down and cannot get up, as does
the man down the road. Another neighbour struggles with chronic diarreah. All of these issues started after they
were injected with the experimental mRNA vaccine.

The government knew it was experimental. Even Greg Hunt said it was the largest vaccine trial the world had
ever engaged in.

I call for an enquiry into the handling of the pandemic, specifically focussing on the government's knowledge of
adverse reactions and censoring of truth.
