COVID-19 response

The role and actions of AHPRA

Over-reach using the umbrella goal of 'maintaining confidence in vaccine safety'

Persecution of individual health practitioners who respected patient autonomy and desire for
informed consent

Threats to all registered health practitioners effectively silencing debate on the scientific evidence
that mRNA and DNA vaccines met the expected standards to be considered safe and effective.

Threats to all medical practitioners in regard to the use of alternative treatments or preventatives
for Covid-19, including therapies with clinical evidence of efficacy. Ivermectin is perhaps the most
egregious example.

Questions to follow up: Who are the people making these decisions and carrying out these actions at
AHPRA? Who instructs/informs and funds their actions? How can their threats to de-register or
prosecute health practioners who act on behalf of their patients's right to personal autonomy and
informed consent be mitigated in the interests of justice? The government must force AHPRA to
respect the international declarations that we have instituted since the manifest abuses of World
War 2. These are:

    1)       The Helsinki declaration (2013 version is current):

https://www.e-dmj.org/file/WIVIA-Declaration_of_Helsinki-2013.pdf

Key passages include:

Unproven Interventions in Clinical Practice

37. In the treatment of an individual patient, where proven interventions do not exist or other known
interventions have been ineffective, the physician, after seeking expert advice, with informed consent
from the patient or a legally authorised representative, may use an unproven intervention if in the
physician's judgement it offers hope of saving life, re-establishing health or alleviating suffering. This
intervention should subseguently be made the object of research, designed to evaluate its safety and
efficacy. In all cases, new information mustbe recorded and, where appropriate, made publicly
available.

This allows the use of other interventions where research has shown evidence of efficacy and should
have been allowed.

    2) The modern Hippocratic oath that all medical graduates promise to uphold, which
       emphasizes patient autonomy, the right to refuse treatment and the principle of first, doing
       no harm.

This means that if a patient does not want to receive an experimental vaccine, they have a right not
to take it and still be able to receive other medical treatment.

The role and actions of the federal and state governments.

Key failure: The federal government's disingenuous insistence that vaccinations were not
mandatory, while allowing the state governments to actively discriminate against unvaccinated
individuals in terms of freedom of movement and the right to work (which are the most egregious
examples among multiple abuses).
Key failure: Not facilitating or listening to reasoned scientific debate on different treatment
approaches. By insisting on a vaccine-led strategy, the emergency use authorization was the only
mechanism to permit the mass-trialling of the new gene therapy vaccines. This led to the vilification
of other potential treatment approaches.



The role of theTGA

This organization failed to hold the experimental gene therapy vaccines to accepted standards of
therapeutic efficacy and safety. This failure led to death and injury and only the Astra-Zeneca vaccine
was removed from recommendation despite initially being touted as 'safe and effective'

It continues to fail in its role by obscuring or minimizing mRNA vaccine injury data, conflating it with
the narrative that the 16-18% increase in excess deaths is due to Covid-19. Data from other
countries and South Australia have shown that the increase in excess deaths is concomitant with
vaccination with mRNA vaccines.

An increasing number of research studies show that the mRNA vaccines cause heart muscle damage
in a relatively high proportion of recipients. The TGA should inform recipients of this risk, or
recommend steps to mitigate the risk by recommending monitoring of cardiac troponin. The ongoing
insistence on encouraging or enforcing vaccination is an abuse of the term 'safe and effective'.

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/ejhf.2978

Attempts have been made to fact-check this article to minimize its significance. The fact remains
that cardiac troponin is elevated in some patients and this is not safe.
