Submission to:
Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet




                Harmony during Havoc:
           Connecting Emergency, Crisis
              and Disaster Management
                  in the Health Domain




Without training, they lacked knowledge.
Without knowledge, they lacked confidence.
Without confidence, they lacked victory.
                                   Gaius Julius Caesar      Christopher J Ainsworth
                                                         MBA CEM Fulbright Alumnus
                                                         Ver 1.0 15 December 2023
The COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet
Parliament House
CANBERRA ACT 2600
Dear Panel Members,
Subject: Harmony during Havoc: Connecting Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management
in the Health Domain
I welcome the opportunity to submita response to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
I am a passionate emergency management professional with over 20 years of experience in organisations,
agencies, and vocational and higher education environments.In my experiences as a 2001 Flexible Learning
Leader, 2008 Fulbright Scholar, volunteer first responder, educator, and practitioner, the emphasis has
been on providing the professional development space for "the next generation of emergency managers." I
have often been referred to as a "pracademic."
As an author and developer, I have consulted with numerous skilled professionals who have helped with
the development and improvement of various Public Safety, Emergency Management and Community
Safety qualifications for Swinburne University (2005-2007), Australian College of Community Safety (2008­
2015), and Central Queensland University (2017-2020). This includes managing and facilitating these
programs within each institution.
Contributions to the sector include extensive involvement in reviewing and updating several Public Safety
Training Package,Emergency Management qualifications including theinternational research and
benchmarking of accredited vocational Emergency Management and Recovery Management qualifications
against applied world practices.
I have been previously engaged with the WA Country Health Service as the Regional Emergency Operations
Centre (REOC) Lead - COVID-19 Pilbara Region in 2020-2021 and the Director, Emergency Management, NT
Health in 2022. COVID-19 operational Preparedness, Response and Recoverywas a central focus during
these periods.
I am an internationally credentialed Certified Emergency Manager (CEM) and sit on the iAEM1 Certification
Commission appointed as the Vice-Chair Certification Commissioner for Oceania, Europe and Asia regions
for 2024.
Sincerely,




Christopher J Ainsworth MBA CEM Fulbright Alumnus
MBA (Ad/), GradDipBus (Emergency & Disaster Comms) [USQ), GradCertPM {UniSA'), GradCert (Crisis Mgt) (USQ),
AdDipPS(EM) - (FM) - CS), AdDipCSM(VM), Dip TAE (TD&D)
CEM {iAEM Certification Commissioner 2021 - 2023, & 2024 -2026, Vice Chair 2024)
EMPS2 (RIC, RPO)


15 December 2023




J
    International Association of Emergency Managers https://www.iaem.org/
    AFAC Emergency Management Professionalisation Scheme

Harmony during Havoc: Connecting Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management in the Health Domain
Ver 1.0 December 2023                                                          Page 2 of 5
Harmony during Havoc: Connecting Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management
in the Health Domain
This submission looks through the lens of: Insights, Observations and Opportunities.
Several of my professional acquaintances who work in Health Emergency Management roles have stated, given
the seriousness of the potential consequences, none are currently prepared to contribute to a formal
submission on COVID-19. Access to varying supporting organisational documentation outside of what has been
disclosed through the public domain is highly restricted. I am respecting the confidentiality of my collective
sources of information. Even in my previous role as Director, Emergency Management, at NT Health, access to
several areas of the COVID-19 response documentation within NT Health was both guarded and restricted. I
therefore draw many of my responses through actual operational experience and leadership in this area.
Key Concern One: Personnel working in Health Emergency Management roles are reluctant to discuss issues
outside their organisation due to the potential repercussions. What do organisations have to hide?
Key Concern Two: The dearth of professional development opportunities and pursuits, combined with the
notable absence of institutions and programs providing fundamental base-level quality professional
development.
Key Concern Three:Government-framed Emergency Management language adds additional layers of confusion
to an already disorientated sector.
    Confusion:Definition3
      1.         "Uncertainty about what is happening,intended or required,
      2.         The state of being bewildered or unclear in one's mind about something,
      3.         A disorderly jumble."
Confusion and disorientation within the sector are driven by a range of terminologies in which professionals
struggle to align withapplied work practices. The definitions of Emergency - Disaster Management, Emergency
Management Continuum, Disaster Management Continuum, the 4 phases of Prevention, Preparation,
Response, Recovery(PPRR) and the seven stages of Response, Relief, Recovery, Reconstruction, Risk Reduction,
Prevention and Preparedness are not standardized across different Departments, Agencies or organizations in
Australia. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet: Australian Government Crisis Management
Framework 2022 4, the National Emergency Management Agency: Statement of Strategic Intent 20235, and
Australian Institute of Disaster Resilience: Australian Emergency Management Arrangements 20236 all have
different interpretations of these same terms.Many operatives and managers have differing interpretations of
the government-derived expressions.
While the simplified 4 Phase PPRR was in place during COVID-19, inconsistent interpretations and non-standard
policies, systems, and procedures hindered the dissemination of clear and effective health messaging, affecting
all jurisdictions and federal health agencies. This created a great deal of uncertainty amongstthe
Australiapopulation on how they should effectively approach and manage daily life around COVID-19.
Agency executives are free to interpret and apply phase options in a manner that maximisescost recovery
within their jurisdiction, agency/organization and geographic area. It is important to remember that these
statements refer to important actions that need to be taken to manage emergencies, disasters and crises. To
guarantee efficient coordination and communication across various entities, both inside and across
jurisdictional boundaries, they must be used appropriately and regularly. Inconsistent operational policies,
 procedures, and protocols stem from the inconsistent interpretation of these terms, which ultimately lead to
 misunderstandings, confusion, and inefficient crisis, emergency, and catastrophe management. A large number
ofdepartments, agencies, and organizations lack the necessary number of skilled personnel to perform critical
emergency, disaster and crisis management functions, particularly for campaign events like Influenza and
COVID-19.




3   https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com
4   https://www.pmc.gov.au/sites/default/files/resource/download/australian-government-crisis-management-framework.pdf
5   https://nema.gov.au/sites/default/files/inline-files/NEIVIA%20Statement%20of%20Strategic%20lntent%202023.pdf
6   https://knowledge.aidr.org.au/media/10162/handbook aema web 2023.pdf
Harmony during Havoc: Connecting Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management in the Health Domain
Ver 1.0 December 2023                                                          Page 3 of 5
    2023 Emergency Manager/Emergency management professionals manage the most complex, diverse risk
    portfolio of any field. All too often they do this in relative anonymity, with limited resources, while dancing
    around political land mines that make our efforts more difficult and stressful.'7 Emergency Management
    practitioners are involved in partial community Preparedness, Response, Relief, organisational Recovery and
    Preparedness within the Emergency Management Continuum.
    2023 Crisis Manager: A person who proactively identifies possible threats, develops overarching crisis
    management plans and ensures that the crisis management runs smoothly8. A crisis manager is involved
    inthe Response, Relief, organisational Recovery and Preparedness within the yet-to-be-defined Crisis
    Management Continuum based on the Emergency Management Continuum during and after an event at
    the organisational executive level.
    2023 Disaster Manager: A person who is responsible for planning and preparing communities for disasters
    and emergencies.9ln the modern era of Disaster Management, qualified practitioners are involved in all
    components within the Emergency and Disaster Continuums.
The ultimate objective of emergency, crisis and disaster management should be to enable communities to
ensure timely and informed decisions about their safety during periods of previously unheard-of turmoil and
confusion by providing high-quality decision-making based on reliable intelligence within a timeframe through
prearranged communication channels.
Professionals working in the present situations across the whole Emergency/Disaster Management continuum
can only attain high-quality results through professionally developed programs that are well-designed,
integrated, extensively disseminated, and centrally assessed. Training was mentioned as an issue in the 2020
Bushfires Royal Commission suggestion, which could result in the introduction of better Public Safety
certifications into the industry and remains a significant issue within the Health domain.
Key Insights and Observations:
    •    States elected to implement their constitutional Emergency Management arrangements, where the
         respective Police and EM Commissioners maintained coordination control.
            Through implementing Disaster Declarations, each State and Territory ensured they maintained
            control of their jurisdiction.
            All State Premiers and Territory Chief Officers ensured they were the key representative face of their
            respective State and Territory and supported by their respective Chief Health Officers. Health
            services were a secondary consideration after Command and Control. Coordination was a tertiary
            consideration.
    •    Health Emergency Management is generally not recognised outside of legislative requirements of
         Australian Standards AS3745 and AS4083 - Preparing for emergencies in facilities/health facilities.
            Legislative reguirements influence the high level of serviceability in this area of Emergency
            preparedness to manage incidents. Experience across two jurisdictions witnessed the reliance on
            short-term irregular training and on task cards to manage incidents. Incident documentation and
            After Action Reviews rarely exist. In one jurisdiction, no incident management level log books could
            be located which hampered the application of Lessons Management continuous improvement
            culture.
    •    Application of the Australasian Inter-service Incident Management System is almost non-existent, yet
         was the core system implemented during COVID-19 response management.
            Within the two jurisdictions I have undertaken an operational role, neither has endorsed AllMS as an
            Incident Management System. When each jurisdiction transitioned to their Disaster Management
            Arrangements, AllMS was adopted as the Incident Management System.
    •    Hospital Major Incident Medical Management Support (HMIMMS) which is appropriate for managing
         within a hospital-based response is the primary system used. The system is not well understood within
         the AllMS system nor the Emergency Services sector who provided COVID-19lncident Management.


7Cwiak, C. (2022). Forging our own Path: Emergency Management's Pathway to Power. iAEM Bulletin, 39(2), 15 - 20.
    https://www.iaem.org/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=AeX0ZPkSixo%3d&portalid=25
8   https://studvonline.port.ac.uk/blog/what-does-a-crisis-manager-do
9   https://kowledge.aidr.org.au/resources/handbook-communitv-recovery/

Harmony during Havoc: Connecting Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management in the Health Domain
Ver 1.0 December 2023                                                          Page 4 of 5
           HMIMMS is the nationally recognised and adopted system that provides a structured approach to
           delivering care in the hospital environment during a mass casualty incident or event not Pandemics.
   •   Health Departments were understaffed and not prepared for non-BAU organisational-wide
       emergencies.
           Health agencies as Lead Hazard Agency reguired outside assistance from the beginning to manage
          fundamental COVID-19 Incident Management roles. The lack of organisational depth and
          professional developmentoutside of the reguirements of AS 3745 and AS4380 - Preparing for
           emergencies facilities/health facilities remains almost non-existent within the sector.
   •   Many Health Departments have inadequate Emergency Coordination Centres / Crisis Coordination
       Centresand associated frameworks in place.
           In the two jurisdictional areas I operated in between 2020 -and 2022, neither had a full-time basic
           Emergency Operations / Coordination Centre established. Both utilized multi-purpose offices if a
           need arose. For COVID-19, one jurisdiction maintained a Health Operational / Coordination Centre,
           the other the State/Territory managed facility. Post-COVID-19, there remain no co-dedicated areas
           that could be rapidly transitioned into an EOCfrom a BAU stance.
   •   Health leadership fails to recognise non-health emergency/disaster/crisis management expertise.
          Across two jurisdictions, Health Leadership chose to use non-health EM specialists to meet
           organisational reguirements, whilst at the same time, not respecting the contributions they make
           during difficult operational challenges. On several occasions, incidents were left to the individuals to
           manage with the expectationsof a successful outcome without leadership input.
   •         There remains a disconnect between Health Services and Public Health.
           In the two jurisdictions where I was operational, there was a distinct disconnect between Health and
           Public Health services. This became very apparent in Regional Australia where both groups were
           vying for the same human capital and difficult to obtain logistical resources.
          As agencies transitioned from the COVID-19 campaign to BAU, new warning systems, for fire, flood
           and heatwave were gradually introduced to Health agencies which reguired adjustment to hospital
           and public health systems.
   •   A significant lack of understanding of Health Logistics requirements by the respective State Emergency
       Operations Centres, (incorrect sanitiser, PRE types/ordering etc)
           With the varying State and Territory declarations, primary staffing reguirements were fulfilled from
          jurisdictions' normal EOC staffing allocations from the emergency services. Emergency management
          practice traditionally revolves around bushfires, storms and floods. None of the agencies had ever
           managed a campaign health event. Logistical reguirements in a health environment are significantly
           different and challenging from normal emergency logistics to the demands of a health pandemic.
           Health agencies themselves were overwhelmed, yet many were not fully consulted resulting in
          procurement contracts not aligned to reguirements. Eg. alcohol sanitiser was initially provided as a
           liguid rather than a gel. Liguid-based products create an additional health hazard risk.
   •   Staffing levels of respective State Emergency Operations / Health Incident Coordination Centres were
       excessively high. On reflection, these numbers could have been reduced by at least 50% if
       appropriately trained personnel were engaged in key roles.
           Observed in two jurisdictions were the staffing levels of the State Health Incident Coordination
           Centre and Emergency Operations Centre where staffing levels could have been reduced by at least
           50% and still achieved the same management outcomes. Many jurisdictions when the respective
           declarations were made fully staffed their operations centres to maximum numbers as it was
          financially viable. This was seen by many as an opportunity to gain experience when other
           operational opportunities were limited.
   •   Whilst this was a responsibility for Health as the Lead Hazard Agency, all State Premiers chose to "take
       controT'of their jurisdictional constitutional responsibilities.
           Drawing from my NT Health experience, NT Health in 2022 had insufficient trained or gualified staff
           who had minimal competency which would enable the agency to undertake a Lead Hazard Agency
           role in either a campaign event or a heatwave activation. No one was gualified to undertake any of
           the primary AllMS roles. At best, the agency could maintain a monitoring and advisory service to the
           communities of the Northern Territory during the summer/ wet season 2022-2023.

Harmony during Havoc: Connecting Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Management in the Health Domain
Ver 1.0 December 2023                                                          Page 5 of 5
