Dept of Prime Minister & Cabinet

Re: Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry




Dear Sir/ Madam,

As a brief introduction I am a 58 year old who lives in Victoria. Due to the decision of the Victorian
government to violate human rights by "mandates" and legislation for many workers to be injected with
novel and poorly tested genetic treatments with uncertain effectiveness, what was already know to be
sometimes deadly short term side effects and also unknown long term effects, I was unable to work in
my role, and my employer of several years ceased my employment. I was paid only until my last day,
and leave owing. I was then unemployed with an uncertain likelihood of obtain work. I was indeed
unemployed for weeks and managed only to obtain short term work from home positions with gaps in
between in which I was unemployed, and with many employers then and even now not wanting
unvaccinated workers.

During the last two years I have cared for others close to me who have been vaccinated multiple times
and still caught covid. I am still not vaccinated and have chosen support my health and immune system
in healthier ways than the genetic agent injections that are so-called vaccines. Also despite travelling on
crowded public transport on most days in more than a year, and during new "waves" I have still not
caught covid. I have had a blood test this year for antigens which has shown that I have not had covid.

Meanwhile most people I know that had the so called vaccines have caught covid. Despite multiple
injections they have sometimes caught it only a few weeks after the injections. They seem on average to
have had worse bouts of covid than the unvaccinated people I know who have caught it.

I know that there has been a most significant rise in excess deaths since the "vaccine" rollout. The
government has made tried to avoid discussion on this matter, other than to try to blame any other
cause than genetic injections. History will judge these obfuscators for concealment of crime as a crime
itself.

Just in my own experience a friend went to a cardiologist recently due to heart issue that has developed
after the genetic injections. The cardiologist said there had been a huge increase in heart problems since
the jab rollouts. The cardiologist was specific in saying the huge increase was due to the jab rollouts, and
not due to covid.

Many times people have sent letters to the government alerting them to many things. Letters have been
sent alerting the government to the life saving benefits of certain early treatments. Also to the dangers
of the new so called vaccines. These letters have often been sent by highly qualified experts, in their
field. Please have your enquiry take the trouble to discover the many letters of instruction and warning
that have been sent, and also how they have been ignored and fobbed off by those that they were sent
to. The government has instead gone to its cherry picked regular "experts" for advice.
We have seen the governments experts being wrong time and again and who are now avoiding
discussing excess deaths, or concealing the cause.

Clearly any inquiry needs to look at the many warning letters that have been sent, and the fact that they
have proved to be correct.

The government departments and other bodies cannot claim to have not known, or to have "relied on
the best possible evidence" when they have had this information and ignored it, or belittled those that
gave it to them.

An inquiry should also look at the many violations of human rights. For example the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which states that:

"Article 4
1. In time of public emergency which threatens the life of the nation and the existence of which is
officially proclaimed, the States Parties to the present Covenant may take measures derogating from
their obligations under the present Covenant to the extent strictly required by the exigencies of the
situation, provided that such measures are not inconsistent with their other obligations under
international law and do not involve discrimination solely on the ground of race, colour, sex, language,
religion or social origin.

2. No derogation from articles 6, 7, 8 (paragraphs I and 2), 11, 15, 16 and 18 may be made under this
provision.

Article 7
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In
particular, no one shall be subjected without his free consent to medical or scientific experimentation."

Obiously where the government or any employer required the so-called covid vaccines to be taken or a
person could not work in their job, this did not allow free consent for the individual.

As the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is included in the schedule as part of the
Australian Human Rights Commission Act 1986.

The Act says that violations of it are to be dealt with as crimes.

Therefore it is necessary that the violations of human rights such as the mandates that were imposed
for vaccinations in order to work or attend university should be treated as crimes, and those responsible
should be held to account.

Also for justice for the many who now have heart problems since the so-called vaccines, or who have
had other adverse events (e.g. the rise in rapid cancers since the injection roll-outs), and the many other
adverse conditions including death, those responsible for imposing these rules and mandates need to be
held to account.
We therefore need a Royal Commission to fully investigate this matter and many trials to follow of those
responsible.

I submit that the Federal, State Government, and many bodies under the control or paid for by the
government along with many institutes and bodies (including the TGA, AHPRA, and the Health
Department, and many Education and Research institutes) and pharmaceutical companies) and the
people who are in the government and these organizations have partaken in gross acts of abuses of
human rights and crimes against humanity in association with the Covid pandemic, and have caused
malicious and great harm to people, both to their livelihoods (e.g. by preventing them from working
dues to mandates), psychological well being, development, and also to their bodily health, including
causing people to suffer many adverse conditions due to withholding what could have been lifesaving
treatment to people (as in placing heavy restrictions on ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine), and
instead giving harmful treatments to people such as the genetic agents ("covid vaccines"), remdesivir,
and quickly placing people on ventilators and palliative care.

Should the government again choose to ignore this submission and the many others like this one, this
will be yet another crime, and one day the consequences will be faced, whether in this world or the
next, and far better it be that this is addressed now by a royal commission and by criminal trials, as in
the next world it will be too late for the souls of those who have been responsible.
