                               Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                  A Introduction
Please note, this submission does not reflect the opinion(s) of my employer(s), nor does it provide any
reflection(s) upon my employer(s). I require my identity to remain confidential.


In early-2020, I, like so many aviation colleagues, was stood down without pay from my otherwise full-time
employment under the guise of a Covid-19 response.1 This occurred via email and was subject to a “rolling”
end date. What began as a shock quickly turned into a fight for survival. As queues ran around the block at
Centrelink offices nation-wide;2 rent, mortgages, grocery and other bills kept coming in while our lives and
livelihoods ground to a halt. Not because of anything we (the individuals) did, but rather the unilateral
actions of our employers. At the time, there was little reason to believe that our employment would resume.


This submission is my own, and I wish to expose the improper use of stand down, far beyond any
reasonable original intent. I also note the consequences of these decisions, as well as the discrepancy with
the rest of the industry. I point out that stand down has a long history in Australian workplace law and it has
never been used, nor should it be used, in scenarios such as these. This is particularly so given the objects
of the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth) (‘Fair Work Act)'.3 balance and fairness.4 I submit that Parliament must
tighten Australian law to prevent the overly wide use of stand down; as the “indefinite” use of these
provisions cannot reasonably replace well-established measures that are otherwise rendered moot.


                                                   B Key Points
1. While stand down clauses have a long history in Australian employment law, they should not be read
     and executed in isolation, rendering the other operative clauses of a workplace instrument moot;
2. Stand down provisions should not be used as a workforce planning/management tool as other existing,
     and fairer/better options exist (such as surplus, and redundancy and re-employment);
3. There are significant public interest implications for the standing down of employees in critical sectors
     when those employees cannot be easily “stood up”; and
4. Parliament should amend the Fair Work Act to limit the indefinite use of stand down.


                          C The Improper Use of Stand Down; and its Consequences
1   What does the Fair Work Act say?
    Section 254 of the Fair Work Act governs stand down.5 Inter alia, it states:
             (1) An employer may ... stand down an employee during a period in which the employee cannot
                 usefully be employed because of one of the following circumstances:
                    (a) industrial action (other than industrial action organised or engaged in by the
                         employer);
                    (b) a breakdown of machinery or equipment, if the employer cannot reasonably be held
                         responsible for the breakdown;


1 < https://www.theguardian.com/business/2020/mar/19/coronavirus-qantas-and-jetstar-to-suspend-international-
flights-and-stand-down-20000-workers >.
2 < https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-03-24/centrelink-minister-stuart-robert-not-anticipate-coronavirus/12080612 >.
3 Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth) (Fair Work Act).
4 Ibid s 3.
5 Ibid s 254 (emphasis added).
                    (c) a stoppage of work for any cause for which the employer cannot reasonably be held
                        responsible.
            (2) However, an employer may not stand down an employee under subsection (1) during a period in
                which the employee cannot usefully be employed because of a circumstance referred to in that
                subsection if:
                    (d) an enterprise agreement, or a contract of employment, applies to the employer and the
                        employee; and
                    (e) the agreement or contract provides for the employer to stand down the employee during that
                        period if the employee cannot usefully be employed during that period because of that
                        circumstance.

   There is a wide uptake of enterprise agreements (‘EAs’) in my industry. As such, I was not stood down
   under the Fair Work Act, rather my EA.6 The relevant clause is 15.6.


   Critically, no temporal limit is prescribed. You will also note that, read together, ‘strikes’ and ‘stoppages’
   are short-term events. Further, my EA has provisions for ‘agreed steps for managing a surplus’,7 and
   ‘redundancy’ (including opportunities to work in other areas, as well as re-employment mandates).8
   Clearly, the latter alternatives are fit for purpose. Instead, I submit that “blanket” stand down was used
   as a convenient, workplace management excuse; whereas surplus and redundancy were more genuine,
   yet expensive, alternatives. Otherwise, what is stopping the employer standing down an employee for
   months or, in this case, years? Further, how could this be misused in other scenarios? Is this in-line with
   the intentions of full-time employment; all the while surplus and redundancy provisions are otherwise
   ignored? I submit that employers could use stand down as an “each way” bet; the employee sits at home
   without pay, while the employer is guaranteed their workplace participation in the future. This is more in
   line with casual employment, not full-time employment; and is materially (and foreseeably) harmful on
   the individual. Without temporal limits, the potential for misuse is profound.


2 What is the intent of stand down provisions?
   As noted, stand down is not a new concept in Australia. Nevertheless, it was traditionally a contractual
   right.9 Contracts should be read as a whole, and construction should avoid ‘commercial nonsense’.10
   Traditional reasons for stand down were: ‘a strike or a work stoppage or another cause for which the
   employer could not reasonably be held responsible’.11 Clearly, the intent is short-term. However, there
   are obvious competing social and economic issues with stand down: continuity of employment versus
   temporary reductions in labour costs.12 Covid exposed these in their rawest form. In the Explanatory
   Memorandum to the Fair Work Bill 2008 (Cth), business closures such as ‘flash flood[s]’ were given as
   examples.13 However, in 2020, some aviation employers envisioned parking aircraft for at least three



6 < https://www.fwc.gov.au/document-
search/view/3/aHR0cHM6Ly9zYXNyY2RhdGFwcmRhdWVhYS5ibG9iLmNvcmUud2luZG93cy5uZXQvZW50ZXJwcml
zZWFncmVlbWVudHMvMjAyMC80L2FINTA3ODU1LnBkZg2? > (‘LHEA 10’).
7 Ibid cl 15.9.
8 Ibid ell 15.10, 15.10.15 and 15.10.19.
9 < https://www.fwc.gov.au/documents/resources/covid-19-information/presidents-statement-fwc-covid-19-response-
2020-08-07.pdf > (‘President’s Statement FWC Covid-19 Response’).
10 Electricity Generation Corporation v Woodside Energy Ltd (2014) 251 CLR 640 [35],
11 President’s Statement FWC Covid-19 Response (n 10).
12 La Plume v Thomas Foods International Pty Ltd [2020] FWC 3690 (15 July 2020) [42] (Anderson DP).
13 Explanatory Memorandum to the Fair Work Bill 2008 (Cth) [link].
                                                         2
   years.14 The ‘mere existence of [a] breakdown or work stoppage is not sufficient’ for stand down;15 it is
   the lack of work, or the prevention of work. Indeed, ‘a mere reduction in available work can not constitute
   a stoppage’.16 Even if ‘the demand for the level of work in a continuing business unit reduced in
   response to an external event’,17 this is not a “stoppage”. In this light, employees can undertake training
   instead of being stood down.18 Clearly, one can see that there are many, many options available to the
   employer; particularly so in a training-intensive industry like aviation. Indeed, stand down itself is purely
   discretionary. Notably, if an employer schedules events (e.g., parking/maintaining aircraft), the reasons
   for the lack of work are within their control.19 Yet, given all of this, stand down was widely adopted by
   aviation employers. There is clearly a mismatch between the intent of these provisions and their real-life
   execution; with nothing in place to stop it happening again. As such, temporal limits are needed for stand
   downs; but overwhelmingly, the provisions must actually fit the scenario. Aviation employees were never
   “stopped” from performing simulator training, other training, or flying; except by the unilateral and blanket
   actions of their employer. The “recovery” from the Covid era aptly demonstrates the longer-term effects
   of these stand down decisions.20 Indeed, the public interest was worsened by the use of stand down.


3 What did other employers do?
   Furthering my submission is that stand down in aviation was a uniquely Australian event. Cargo prices
   skyrocketed during the Covid era,21 so much so that overseas airlines rushed to take out passenger
   seats to be replaced by cargo boxes.22 Further, foreign passenger airlines gladly filled the void in
   Australia - indeed, a Middle Eastern carrier returned more Australians home than Australian airlines did.
   Hence the question, no useful work; or no intent to perform work? Stoppage, or refusal? Australian
   employers had JobKeeper which, undoubtedly, benefited employees early on. But how long after the
   initial shock was JobKeeper used to justify not paying one’s employees? If stand down had short-term,
   temporal limits (such as during flash flooding, etc.) then the other operative clauses in EAs would have
   had to compete with minimum rates of pay. This is (comparatively) expensive when an employer refuses
   to employ. This is clearly not the fault of the employee, nor in the wider public interest.


   As such, and as awful as it was to live through (indeed, over years), this should never be allowed to
   happen to another Australian worker again. If the stand down loopholes are fixed then an employee can
   once again rely upon his or her EA to function the way it was supposed to - in good times and bad.
   Otherwise, simply, what is the point of surplus, redundancy and re-employment clauses?

   I thank the Inquiry.


14 < https://australianaviation.com.au/2020/09/trip-to-boneyard-signals-last-qantas-a380-flight-for-years/ >.
15 Australian Federation of Air Pilots v Bristow Helicopters Australia Pty Ltd [2016] FWC 8515 (2 December 2016).
16 Marson v Coral Princess Cruises (N.Q.) Pty Ltd [2020] FWC 2721 (25 May 2020) (Lake DP).
17 La Plume v Thomas Foods International Pty Ltd (n 13). See also Stelzer v The Trustee for The Ideal Acrylics Unit
Trust [2020] FWC 4129 (7 August 2020) [60] (Anderson DP).
18 Australian Workers' Union v Brockman Engineering Pty Ltd [2015] FWC 2077 (30 March 2015).
19 Australian Federation of Air Pilots v Australian Helicopters Pty Ltd [2013] FWC 7863 (15 October 2013).
20 See < https://australianaviation.com.au/2022/04/now-alan-joyce-blames-not-match-fit-passengers-for-queues/ >.
21 < https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/travel-logistics-and-infrastructure/our-insights/taking-stock-of-the-
pandemics-impact-on-global-aviation >.
22 < https://www.flightglobal.com/fleets/emirates-converts-10-777-300ers-into-temporary-freighters/139001.article >.
                                                             3
