To the covid enquiry team

I am making this submission to you to request your help for a full, fair, open and honest royal
commission enquiry both state and federal to help combat the fallout from the mismanagement of
this pandemic and to stand for truth and justice for all Australian people and indeed globally.
Australia and indeed the world needs our governments to stand up, speak up and be honourable in
their actions of the last few years allowing for clear, transparent and honest debate, discussion and
truthful answers in to the harms, hurt, deceit, discrimination, over reach and horror that has been
imposed and enforced upon all people from the mishandling and mismanagement of this apparent
pandemic.

I am sending this submission to you out of total despair for the situation we have found ourselves in
these last few years and with absolute hope that the horrible atrocities, behaviours and so called
policies that have occurred during this time and enforced upon decent, honest, hard working
Australians can be seen for what they are and the total harm and destruction they have caused to all
concerned.

I am writing to you from the heart begging for an open, honest enquiry into this extreme over reach
and mishandling, allowing discussion and honesty for people who have been hurt and damaged in
many ways by these mandate policies, coercions, suppressions, cover ups and lies.

Enforcing an emergency use authorised, new technology drug that's has not been fully or
appropriately tested onto citizens, who under threat of losing their job should they not partake of
this experiment, placing them under extreme duress and anxiety trying to navigate an uncertain
future, demonising, victimising and discriminating against us because of a choice and what
constitutionally should be our free choice to make without any recourse is utterly inhumane,
immoral, unethical and should most likely even be illegal.
But somehow in complete disbelief of what happened to Australia and Australians, what was
allowed to occur and even encouraged by our so called trusted leaders to not want to be with
unvaccinated people, to have media reporting false details, fabricated numbers and stating to their
fellow humans 'you need to have a discussion and seriously think about who you allow into your
house at Christmas' if they don't comply!

The extreme anxiety and stress felt from the fallout around these pandemic 'rules' has caused more
harm with mental health issues, depression, anxiety, fear for the future, threat of loss of jobs and
ability to provide for family, isolation and segregation from society because of fear campaigns
against the vaccine free, so many discriminations, hurts and harms that words cannot really describe
the disbelief, pain and anguish that our fellow Australians and our government authorities have
caused with this and have allowed this to occur against their fellow Australians.

At the beginning of this pandemic, pre vaccination rollout, we were apparently all in this together,
working side by side learning about and navigating as best we could through the unknown. We
supported each other, we followed rules and policies because of what we were told and thought at
the time were the best tools to keep people safe.

We were navigating through unknown and hard times, but we all had each other's backs and
supported each other the best we could physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually too.

How did it become that because an experimental drug that had been rushed through under the
guise of global threat, but with no true safety data either short or long term, with the injection
provider given total immunity against any possible harms because it was new and unknown, with
our doctors gagged by AHPRA to only be allowed to push the use of this injection, for this injection
to be rolled out in phases at first and then pushed on everyone as the only way out of the pandemic,
with leaders in parliament stating that" if you want to get back to work, if you want to have that cup
of coffee, if you want to see family then get the jab".
How did this even occur. Who are we and what have we become.

The fear campaign produced by our health and government officials and backed by the media was
enough to scare people into taking something unknown to them and then further to this when it
became that you could not leave your home for more than an hour, you could not leave your suburb
without being vaccinated, you could not work unless you had the jab.... What choice did people
have... None, it was cleverly and dishonestly taken from them, replaced with not only excess fear
from a virus but also now fear of never getting 'life as we know it' back.
That in itself is not a health concern but a compliance and control mechanism.

This is extreme psychological warfare and the harm caused to everyone, both those who opted to
trust the government under threat and to those who opted to wait and see needs to be addressed
and answered to.
Sadly, those of us who chose to wait and see, to ask questions, research a little, critically think and
do due diligence over our own health and what drugs we put into our body have been
ostracised, cast out, treated very unfairly, lost or under threat of loss of job and made to feel like
second class lepers who are nothing but a threat to our fellow humans.

There are no words for the injustice of these behaviours, the mental anguish caused and the
psychological harms sadly for us all no matter our choices because it has become obvious by those
who have chosen to wait that there was actually validity in this choice.

The agenda to keep pushing these injections on to people when there are obvious harms along with
data now showing they are both ineffective and not as safe as they thought, with so many people
damaged from the injection itself and with our reporting databases showing the many tens of
thousand of adverse events, this alone should be enough to both stop mandating these injections
and to also cause an investigation into the outcomes.

Too many people have been harmed in too many ways these last few years, this will take a lot of
healing, but someone needs to step up, speak up and do the right, just and honourable thing.

It is obvious this has not worked as they had hoped, this over reach needs to be investigated and
people need to be allowed to get back to work, educate our kids, look after those in hospital who
need care and attention, hug and love our elderly who are isolated, get back to living, breathing and
being there for each other. Be loving supportive families, travel and have holidays together, get on
with life and be happy.

With or without vaccine, the effects wane, transmission is not stopped, those vaccine free are no
more of a risk than anybody else.
Please let us all get back to work, help our kids learn, look after our sick and elderly, have staff to
make that much needed coffee, get industry back up and running and get our lives, our state and our
country back and do the right and proper action and investigate.

Please, those in supposed authority have the heart, the conscience and the common sense to end
this, investigate this correct it, admit errors, apologise, compensate as needed and move on.

In hope and faith in God's name for honesty, truth and justice.

Kind regards
Lynette Cresnik
