                                                                     Email -



Thursday, 14 December 2023



To whom it may concern.

Dear Sir/Madam/They/Them or whatever you feel you prefer.

As someone who was affected by Covid 19, and mores by the responses to it by the
governments involved, I felt a submission was in order, even an enquiry as narrowly focused
as this one.

The federal governments response to the pandemic was far more measured than the over
reach, kneejerk, fear driven reaction that the majority of states managed to come up with,
effectively imprisoning the populations of their respective states, especially the draconian
Victorian response.

I feel that the terms of this enquiry was purposely limited so that the behaviour of the state
governments during this time isn’t bought under the microscope as the majority of state
governments were Labor state governments and as it is a Labor federal government, they
wouldn’t want to put their actions under scrutiny.



After working during the initial lockdowns as I was deemed to be working in an essential
service, I lost my job after the vaccines were mandated by the Victorian government as I
refused to be vaccinated. I felt that it was not the place of ANY person in a democratic
country to force me to take any medication, and yes, vaccines are a form of medication,
without any description of the ingredients or even any proper explanation of the mechanism
by which it works. I felt the media and the medical establishment overhyped the risks involved
with covid. The statistics of the dead were not properly explained or were over stated to make
the risks seem far more grievous than the reality of the situation. For example, if people who
were already dying of a pre existing condition passed away, and they tested positive to covid,
they were counted as a covid death even if covid was never proven to have contributed to that
death, as was testified to by the numbers of callers to various talk back radio stations
explaining that grand dad who was on the verge of dying of terminal cancer passed away
with the doctors calling it a covid death. If we use the same methods to count the deaths
since, we would reasonably need to conclude that any deaths of vaccinated people should be
counted as having died from the vaccination regardless of whether the vaccine actually
contributed to that death.



I must state for the record, that I am not an anti vaxxer. As a child of the I was
vaccinated for the usual things prior to commencing school and during the school years, the
majority of which, I believe were beneficial, but the covid vaccines were a new, unproven
technology with questionable efficacy, as can be seen with the number of boosters required
and the fact that covid itself is still around and threatening. The much touted herd immunity
turned out to be a pipe dream as , I believe, the vaccines were unable to effect that affect.

I believe the governments reach into the private lives of individuals even forcing people into
home detention, the wearing of masks, the constant washing of hands, the fear mongering,
the fear of the police enforcing ever more draconian laws, all this and more exemplifies the
over reach and over exaggeration of the responses and were it not for a small insertion in the
Australian Constitution, I’m sure the state governments would have had the police force
vaccinations on people.

Also for the record, I am                   I have had covid and was laid up for 8 days with it,
but as I stated, I was far more affected by the state governments reaction to the virus than by
the virus itself and so any enquiry that doesn’t look at the states behaviour during the
epidemic will achieve very little.



Sincerely yours,
