Submission to the Covid 19 Inquiry Dec 2023



We need a Royal Commission!

Everything was wrong about the whole Covid 19 Response.

We were coerced with fear and threats which abused our human rights in this free country.

We were lied to.

We were cancelled. Locked out of society if we wouldn't obey.

Any contrary opinion to the government edicts were censored, deplatformed and shut down.

No scientific evidence that any of the response was wrong, or even illegal, was vilified and silenced.

A highly lucrative deal was done with Pfizer which we were denied details of.

Why did the government but 130 mill doses of an experimental gene technology which had killed
people in the meagre trials that had been done?

Why are vaccine makers not liable for injuries and deaths.

Pfizer has admitted that their vaccine can cause 1000s of serious, life threatening conditions and
diseases. Why are these conditions not being acknowledged?

Why were deaths from Covid exaggerated by mixing deaths with Covid?

Why were Vaccine injuries and deaths not mandatorily reported?

Why do we have a huge increase in "excess deaths" in this country and every other which is heavily
vaccinated? Some say up to 17% and in the working age groups?

Why do the authorities not care that Myocarditis/pericarditis has increased ~700% on Medicare code
number data?

Where is the evidence that these vaccines were effective? They are clearly not.

Where is the evidence that the vaccines were safe? They are clearly not. They are still killing people.

Why did our law that says that you cannot be coerced into a vaccine or an experimental medical
treatment not protect us from mandates?

Why did our law that says Authorities may quarantine sick people fail to stop our governments
forcing most of the population into home quarantine with the lockdowns, curfew and travel limits?

Why are ongoing sudden deaths of younger people not a cause for concern?

You get my drift if read thus far.

Call a Royal commission as this Inquiry is already a farce.

Thank you,
