Submission to the Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

My observations on the effects of the Australian and Victorian governments’ response to the
pandemic are relevant for the following people I am closely responsible for, either legally or
morally:

Elderly family members in residential aged care

Peers in the paid workforce

Adult offspring in the paid workforce including those looking after young children

A school child, the youngest sibling of the above

Infant grandchildren, nephew and niece

Friends of varying opinions

I supported very carefully the restrictions imposed by federal and state governments, because
not much was known about COVID-19 and it was rapidly killing alarming numbers of people in,
for example, Italy, the UK and the USA

I supported and promoted the vaccines when they became available. I criticised the federal
government for opting for the cheaper AstraZeneca when they could have chosen Pfizer from
the start.

I criticized the federal government for being slow off the mark to get RATS into the country - this
cost me attendance at my daughter’s wedding, because I woke with a cold, which a PCR later
revealed to not be COVID, but felt I couldn’t take the risk of it perhaps being COVID and
perhaps leading to other people at the wedding dying because of my attendance.

There were restrictions which I obeyed, but knew they weren’t scientific and quite possibly
counterproductive, like the requirement to wear masks even when exercising outdoors (unless
you were a jogger or a cyclist). This led to people not taking their limited opportunity for walking
outside in nature, and almost certainly contributed to the development of long term mental
health problems still negatively affecting so many Australians.

The singles bubbles absolutely should have been there from day one - and actively promoted by
governments to make sure no-one was isolated - the percentage of Australians who live alone is
increasing and it is not good for any person to be isolated from all others for prolonged periods
of time.

My school child had two terms away from school last year due to social and COVID anxiety and
will need to continue psychologist consultation to maintain strategies to overcome these fears -
the psychologist was exactly the right solution to the problem even though it took two full terms
to get the child back in the school classroom. I could afford the psychologist for my child, but the
majority of parents just wouldn’t be able to - next pandemic all school children should get
bulk-billed under Medicare psychologist appointment so there is no discrimination of chance of
recovery between the well off and everyone else.

The babies born in my family during the lockdowns suffered various developmental delays due
to not seeing anyone but their parents - slow to smile and slow to babble. New parents were
unsupported, which is dangerous for the babies too - we have a falling birthrate and everyone
who does choose to have and succeeds in having a baby needs to be as strongly supported as
is possible.

I strongly objected to fathers-to-be not permitted to attend the mother of their child’s ultrasounds
- our society needs to increase the sense of responsibility of men for the children they father
and bring it up to the level of the sense of responsibility a woman extends to her child. Treating
the father as unnecessary at any stage of a pregnancy is not what our society should be doing
at this stage of the quest for financial and every other type of equality between men and women.

I felt the anti-vax response from so many was a clear indication that more science about
vaccinations needs to be taught in schools - school children need to know about diseases for
which vaccinations have made such a difference, and the science of how those vaccinations
made that difference. We teach children in schools about why smoking and alcohol are not good
for health and now clearly we need to teach them more carefully and thoroughly about disease
prevention and vaccination science in particular.

On science I would like as much retrospective research completed as possible -1 feel that even
now the science on how effective masks are is rather imprecise and incomplete. COVID
continues to sweep through aged care institutions with massive quantities of plastic PPE stuff
going to landfill daily - why is covering the whole body in plastic necessary? I understand the
science of N95 mask and visor when visiting someone infected with COVID because the
airborne droplets enter through all the orifices of the face.

The main lasting effect the pandemic has had on me is to make me an aged care reform
activist. I will never forget and never forgive the shocking realisation that the aged care system
in Australia was so ignorant of both gerontic healthcare science and the human rights of those
in the last stage of the lifespan that aged care facility managers were given carte blanche to
deny residents in whatever way they chose and for however long they chose the visits of the
Powers of Attorney they had appointed to monitor their care.

In residential aged care more people died of neglect and despair than died of COVID, because
SHAMEFULLY Australia’s 1997 aged care act separated the medical care of the very elderly
into a cheaper far less scientific system, which the pandemic showed denied the very elderly not
only healthcare, but their human rights
The aged care royal commission did a fantastic job of their reports “Neglect” and “Care, Dignity
and Respect”, but they failed to appreciate the human rights aspects. Now we have the
Disability Royal Commission report which fills those gaps and the two reports combined need to
give those disabled by the ageing process the same level of human rights as the disability royal
commission advocates.

Until the federal government legislates to make it immediately legally enforceable for Powers of
Attorney to have same access as staff to residents in aged care facilities, I will never use
residential aged care again and will strongly and proactively urge any fellow Australians I
discuss aged care with against committing their loved one to residential aged care because their
human rights are utterly unprotected. We would not allow our child to attend a school where the
principle could make individual decision to keep the child and refuse the parent access. The
pandemic revealed that is exactly the situation those that are unwise enough (like myself
because I just didn’t think that a country like Australia could possibly be so backward) to put
themselves ora loved one into residential aged care. Effective legislation, preferably with
admission of wrong, would be needed to change my stance on this.

Thank you hugely for the opportunity for members of the public to contribute to the inquiry.
