Covid response Inquiry

I have been a Registered Nurse since 1979 working mainly in community-based and public
health nursing roles including within Remote Aboriginal Health. I have been trained to think
critically, use a scientific approach to question procedures that may not be relevant to the
situation and use resources available to help people heal.

From very early in 2020 I had major concerns about decisions being made in the name of
public health. Although mostly stemming from the USA and WHO the Australian
Government endorsed the recommendations and the regulatory bodies TGA & APHRA made
practicing within an ethical framework impossible, closed its eyes to safety and overstepped
its roles by telling Doctors what they could and could not prescribe.

Personally, I became active trying to alert people to the news that wasn't being shared by
mainstream media, (https://naturesheartintentions.org/category/blog/2020-onwards/)
Then in early 20211 was granted a Federally Funded position assessing residents in nursing
homes. I was required to have the experimental 'vaccine' before commencing training. I
would have been one of the first people in Australia to have received it. I had an allergic
process happening of which the cause could not be found and had a reaction to the
Hepatitis vaccine several years prior, so my doctor provided a health certificate/exemption.
The employer emailed me to say they took that as my resignation. Due to concern for my
health and refusing to have the vaccine my 40-year career finished that day. I am now 65.

My major concerns include: -

   1. Modelling was alarmist and did not reflect previous corona virus infections. For
      example, modellers reported 85% people susceptible to virus when it was more like
      10 to 15%. Politians and media promoted this fear alarming model.
   2. Any opposing views (aerosol - droplet air borne spread, isolation, distancing, masks
      etc) were deliberately silenced with highly qualified medical personnel personally
      attacked, publications removed from medical journals, accounts cancelled on Social
      Media platforms in the name of misinformation and the ability of medical staff to
      provide real informed consent was prohibited. Particularly in Australia see what
      happened to                    most famous for his triple therapy cure for peptic
      ulcers in 1987. He announced a Triple Therapy Protocol for Covid using 'off label safe
      drugs' which then became illegal for doctors to prescribe (TGA) so that the vaccine
      (redefined word to fit what it was) could be fast tracked and approved for emergency
      use. If there was an effective treatment the vaccine could not have been approved in
      the same 'warp speed' way. The National Covid-19 Clinical Evidence Taskforce
      advised in its clinical treatment guidelines not to use Ivermectin. They stated that
      studies showing it was effective were flawed. Overall, the drug's safety and efficacy
      has been proven. Media focussing on the fact that^^^|had applied for a patent
      on the drug protocol and was likely to benefit financially is an obvious smokescreen
      when you compare the billions big pharma made from the vaccines.
   3. Dangerous medical procedures were mandated by states and the Commonwealth
      Government did not intervene and contributed to the requirement to have the
      experimental gene therapy by requiring it to enter the country. This contravenes the
       United Nations Human Rights Laws. See also Nuremberg Code, Informed Consent for
      vaccines etc. Those injured have not been recognised, treated in compensated.
       Individuals have taken up the challenge to fight to be heard and offer support to
      others e.g. Coverse and the many other groups who have made submissions.
   4. Inhumane requirements of isolation and masks for young children let alone
      vaccination were not based on individual needs or honest science (spread, individual
      immunity). No debate was allowed. See Great Barrington Declaration also referenced
      for point 2.
   5. Case studies, randomised trials and other forms of research that did not fit with the
       mantra "safe and effective" were not considered as they became available. Even
      when          documents were made available via Freedom of Information law suites
      in the USA the gene therapy was not and has not been removed from the market.

References for above
These are just the ones I have referred to lately, there are many more.

1. Dr Clare Craig, UK pathologist "Expired COVID The Untold Story" Also on Podcast at 20-
minute mark. https://youtu.be/AFA5fTeAJno?si=BSHIDe_ZlUGT3QQS
2. https://gbdeclaration.org/
 https://prwire.com.au/pr/91367/ivermectin-triple-therapy-protocol-for-covid-19-released-
to-australian-gps-as-treatment-for-infected-elderly-and-frontline-workers
3. https://coverse.org.au/injured/support/
https://www.news.com.au/technology/science/human-body/dr-kerryn-phelps-reveals-
devastating-covid-vaccine-injury-says-doctors-have-been-censored/news-
Story/0clfa02818c99a5ff65f5bf852a382cf
4. https://www.cochrane.org/CD006207/ARI_do-physical-measures-such-hand-washing-or-
wearing-masks-stop-or-slow-down-spread-respiratory-viruses
5. https://icandecide.org/pfizer-documents/




Recommendations

    1.Acknowledge the international and emerging research on COVID-19 vaccines (gene
      therapy, gain of function technologies used, effects on immunity etc) plus injuries
      and Post Vaccine Syndrome.
   2. Conduct an independent inquiry into COVID protocols and restrictions on people’s
      lives that were not science based (warp speed science, biased) and vaccine approvals
      and pharmacovigilance processes of responsible government agencies, regarding the
      minimisation of, and disinterest in, serious adverse reactions and long-term effects
      such as turbo cancers and childbirth issues, still-born etc.
   3. Conduct an independent inquiry into potential collusion between government
      officials and media actors (including social media companies). Issues to assess
      include suppression of reasonable, scientific medical opinions and censorship of
      now-proven scientific facts about possible adverse vaccine outcomes that ran
      counter to the prevailing public health messaging strategies.
   4. Conduct an independent inquiry into health profession regulators, who bullied and
      censored doctors who were attempting to raise concerns about vaccine safety and
   patient risk. This should focus not just on the improper regulation of doctors but on
   the abandonment of patients as a result of these measures.
5. Investigate the use of ‘misinformation laws’ that censor free speech and human
   advancement through dialogue and debate.
6. Investigate the overuse of Emergency Laws used to track people and reduce
   freedoms and sovereignty.
7. Make allowance for integrative medicine, complementary and energy medicine
   healing modalities and avoid ‘one size fits all’ medical approaches. Exit the WHO
   and don’t sign onto the new pandemic treaties and the International Health
   Regulations.
   https://www.aph.gov.au/About Parliament/ParliamentaryDepartments/Parliamenta
   ry_Library/FlagPost/2022/May/Pandemics_and_WHO_Reform
