Government policy determined by unelected individuals who have no business
in our country, is a violation against Australia's citizens and sovereignty.

Censorship of all who had an alternative approach including well known
academics Doctors, Professors and Scientist was criminal DENYING the public's
right and opportunity to decide for themselves, which course of action to take.
An arrogant and irresponsible assumption to make on EVERYONE'S behalf. Self
determination is an empowering and supportive exercise. Yet those in Canberra
were exempt. Honestly what a croc, somehow for months the virus was
acceptable in one state and not over the border into another.

Driving an untested ineffective substance with no long-term data to identify
side effects, if any, WAS/ IS criminal conduct.

So called democratic process was denied.

Compensate the many Health Care professionals for the loss of income due to
termination from a role which they had been fulfilling for the first 18 months of
the pandemic. Often entering and working on wards where supposedly high
rates of infection were present. Heros to Zero. Now a HCW shortage putting
patients at risk. This is on GOVERNMENT ALP & LIBs and ^^^^^^^Jand
^^^^■RED union ONLY union to support individual choice and
responsibility. Heros in my opinion.

Government serves people.

This last-minute effort to provide opportunity for public to submit under the
guise of actually caring is painfully obvious and is woefully ignorant and
arrogant.

IF the ALBANESE gov gave a toss and were sincere about gaining perspective,
adequate time would have been afforded the general public, along with a TV
campaign to inform about this opportunity. This is another tick box situation
and is glaringly obvious. Personal integrity comes to mind. Look in the mirror.

I was terminated from my role which I loved and was completely committed.
Years of experience lost. One day I hope JUSTICE will be served to those that
ignored and oppressed, denying access to family and loved ones, some dying
alone. The pain of those situations for some will forever be. CRUEL and totally
unjustifiable.
