•   What couldn't we see the data? Why is it hidden and why can't we
    have experts from outside public health debate the data so all
    Australians know what is happening?
•   Why do we have 50,000 excess deaths since April 2021, which was
    when the Covid-19 vaccine was rolled out? It is not from Covid,
    so what is it, and why did the Senate vote 30-29 against a formal
    investigation? Even if it is not the vaccine, then it is a
    national emergency that must be explored. It is unacceptable to
    simply sweep it under the carpet.
•   Why is it a doctor can register a Covid-19 vaccine death in the
    TGA DAENS yet the TGA "experts" do not report it as such?
•   Why was there an absence of autopsy's performed on those who died
    shortly after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine?
•   Then Health Minister, Greg Hunt, told all Australians on ABC
    Insiders in February 2021 that the Covid-19 vaccine was safe and
    effective. How could he have known that when Pfizer's own
    internal data showed anything but being safe and effective? Why
    did the Federal Government establish the Covid-19 Vaccine
    Compensation Scheme if it was "safe?"
•   The average age of a Covid death was 84, longer than the average
    age of life. So young people were never at risk, and if it was
    effective, then surely those that took the vaccine were
    protected? Why did I have to take a headache tablet so you would
    get a headache? It made no sense.
•   We have 19 years without a successful SARS vaccine, and what
    appeared to be a miracle, we had one. Why were other treatments
    suppressed, one of which was a Nobel Prize winning drug (2015)
    with over 4.6 billion doses and little to no deaths? The only way
    the Biosecurity Act could be enacted was if no other treatments
    existed. Why did the government shut down and ban known
    treatments that have been around for 50+ years yet allow an
    untested, and more disturbing mRNA vaccine on the population?
    Surely people who were not at risk at dying from Covid could have
    used other measures that have stood the test of time?
•   And on risk, the risk of a healthy person dying from Covid (not
    with Covid) was something like 0.0094 of one percent. Why on
    earth would the government push a single, untested, "solution" on
    every person? And if the answer is, "it was the best available
    information" where was this information sourced and who funded
    it?
•   People lost their jobs for having the bravery to say no to an
    untested drug. They may not have been forced, but they were
    coerced or they lost their job. Can you please explain to me how
    the application of the Nuremberg Code would apply to this? My
    comments are in red.

    The ten points of the Nuremberg Code were given in the section of
    the judges' verdict entitled "Permissible Medical Experiments":

    1. The voluntary consent of the human subject is absolutely
       essential. This means that the person involved should have
  legal capacity to give consent [School kids were able to make
  their own decisions about whether to take the vaccine or not.
  I refer to Qudos Stadium in NSW, which was converted as a mass
  vaccination clinic where parents could not attend the
  vaccination with their child. How could a 12, 13, 14, or 15
  year old possible be considered to have the legal capacity?] ;
  should be so situated as to be able to exercise free power of
  choice, without the intervention of any element of force,
  fraud, deceit, duress, overreaching, or other ulterior form of
  constraint or coercion; [with good conscience, how can any
  reasonable thinking person not believe that what the Federal
  and State government did was not coercion? It was an element
  of fraud as well as the people were told it was safe and
  effective, yet as it turned out, neither are true. People died
  from the Covid-19 vaccine. People were injured by the Covid-19
  vaccine. People such as Dr Kerryn Phelps who eventually spoke
  out were criticized. When in Australia's history have so many
  been suppressed for challenging the government position?]
  should have sufficient knowledge and comprehension of the
  elements of the subject matter involved as to enable him to
  make an understanding and enlightened decision. This latter
  element requires that before the acceptance of an affirmative
  decision by the experimental subject there should be made
  known to him the nature, duration, and purpose of the
  experiment; the method and means by which it is to be
  conducted; all inconveniences and hazards reasonably to be
  expected; and the effects upon his health or person which may
  possibly come from his participation in the experiment.
  [People were told it was safe and effective. They lied as
  neither are true. The data points clearly to that outcome.]
  The duty and responsibility for ascertaining the quality of
  the consent rests upon each individual who initiates, directs,
  or engages in the experiment. It is a personal duty and
  responsibility which may not be delegated to another with
  impunity. [13]

2. The experiment should be such as to yield fruitful results for
   the good of society, unprocurable by other methods or means of
  study, and not random and unnecessary in nature. [50-year old
  successful antiparasitic drugs were banned. The Queensland
  Government passed legislation within 2 weeks of lockdowns that
  prevented Doctors from prescribing Hydroxychloroquine. Why? It
  has been proven and is effective. Ivermectin was the same. In
  fact, the Gold Coast Hospital sent people home with Ivermectin
  yet it was not considered a viable option? A 50-year old Nobel
  Prize winning drug? People were told it was safe and
  effective. They lied as neither are true. The data points
  clearly to that outcome.]
3. The experiment should be so designed and based on the results
   of animal experimentation and a knowledge of the natural
   history of the disease or other problem under study that the
  anticipated results will justify the performance of the
  experiment. [The panel needs to see the animal results. They
  were abysmal and if the public ever got wind of them, there
  would be anger beyond belief.]
4. The experiment should be so conducted as to avoid all
   unnecessary physical and mental suffering and injury.[As we
  know, mental health in Australia as a result of the lockdowns
  is off the scale. And this could have been prevented if the
  politicians who ran the show pivoted in their strategy. But
  they didn't. Why? If a strategy is failing, wouldn't you pivot
  and adjust? But they kept the same one-trick pony for the
  entire State of Emergency.]
5. No experiment should be conducted where there is an a
   priori reason to believe that death or disabling injury will
   occur; except, perhaps, in those experiments where the
   experimental physicians also serve as subjects.  [This panel
  needs to refer to Pfizer's own internal documents as this
  clearly shows people died from the vaccines. People were
  injured from the vaccines, and people continued to catch Covid
  despite taking the vaccine, despite Pfizer claiming 95%
  efficacy. They lied and now the US Attorney General is suing
  Pfizer for false and misleading information.]
6. The degree of risk to be taken should never exceed that
   determined by the humanitarian importance of the problem to be
   solved by the experiment.

7. Proper preparations should be made and adequate facilities
   provided to protect the experimental subject against even
   remote possibilities of injury, disability, or death. [There
  is a clear lack of support and empathy for those who have been
  injured by the vaccine. Facebook removed a group that had over
  65,000 people on it, many were injured by the vaccine and were
  telling their stories. But it was shutdown. Why? They were
  expressing what happened to them. Does that not make it real
  just because it doesn't align with the government narrative?]
8. The experiment should be conducted only by scientifically
   qualified persons. The highest degree of skill and care should
   be required through all stages of the experiment of those who
   conduct or engage in the experiment. [Getting a jab at
  Bunnings seems to be a far distance from a safe site. And what
  happened to transporting the vaccine at -70 degrees? What
  happened to waiting six months between injections, which
  became four, then three, and some even a month? How quickly
  the "science" changed. Yet suggest that something like
  Ivermectin or Hydroxychloroquine and you are banned off social
  media.]
9. During the course of the experiment the human subject should
   be at liberty to bring the experiment to an end if he has
    reached the physical or mental state where continuation of the
    experiment seems to him to be impossible.

10. During the course of the experiment the scientist in
   charge must be prepared to terminate the experiment at any
   stage, if he has probable cause to believe, in the exercise of
   the good faith, superior skill and careful judgment required
   of him that a continuation of the experiment is likely to
   result in injury, disability, or death to the experimental
   subj ect.



•   Tens of thousands said no and somehow fumbled their way
    through. As we have seen, critical services are now depleted
    because people are either sick and off work or the people who
    were in those roles refused to go back. In the United States,
    not only have the mandates been removed but Marines are being
    offered $50,000 to sign back on.
•   Doctors exploited the entire vaccination program by charging
    people hundreds of dollars just for an appointment. These were
    people who were literally scared to death did all they could
    to follow the "health advice."
•   And finally, there was the economic catastrophe. As Professor
    Gigi Foster from UNSW wrote, the costs of lockdowns were 68x
    greater than any benefit gained, including life years. Her
    research is freely available for all to see.
