Dear Sir/Madam,

I write concerning the COVID INQUIRY.

It is essential that this is undertaken and needs to then become a
ROYAL COMMISSION to investigate the numerous serious and
sometimes disastrous implications of Australia's National Response to
the Covid virus.

My first concern was that the national response was in some way
akin to the Chinese governments extreme and repressive response,
and anything that mimics that regime is to be taken with extreme
caution. Totalitarianism is a disaster for humanity, as evidenced by
the millions of deaths as a result of such regimes throughout the 20th
Century.

Why did the National response disregard the previously determined
national plan for respiratory illnesses? Instead choosing to follow the
WHO strategy instead.

The enforcement of a new medical technology, which changes the
recipients genetics, with so little research to clearly outline risks and
reasonable, if any, usage.

The fact that people under 50 had a 99.99% chance of survival.
Despite this, the scale of fear and paranoia cultivated and enforced
by the government and mainstream media outlets begs the question,
what is going on? What is in this for these very selective groups of
people in our society?

The dramatic increase in mental illness following the draconian lock
down measures, notably among our youth, who were unable to be
seriously harmed by the illness. Sadly, the same cannot be said for all
of young people who received a Covid injection.

The scale of economic distress and disadvantage that resulted from
the rules and lockdowns. It is particularly concerning to see the trend
of economic advantage that was transferred from small local
businesses to large national and multinational companies. In my city,
Adelaide, half of Rundle Street shut down after a year or so of Covid
measures, and the business that closed have not re-opened.

The media's enforcement of a particular narrative, and the enormous
censorship walls that were in place to restrict people from exploring
alternative understandings. It is extremely significant that a lot of
information labelled as disinformation by the mainstream press has
been proven to be sound and correct.

The inappropriate behavior of the Therapeutic Goods Act, to
implement emergency use, without having read through the drug
companies actual safety data. Furthermore this is beyond the TGA's
actual task, which is to advise doctors on risks and benefits of
pharmaceuticals, to best support individual treatment, not to enforce
a treatment.

The unscientific use of masks, and the implications this has had on
healthy child development.

The fact that women who were pregnant were injected, without any
studies indicating the risks involved, despite being told that they
were safe. Many miscarriages indicate a very different picture.

The scale of government intervention on medical practice.

The fact that a new medical body: Australian Medical Professional
Society was formed, because of medical censorship. The book this
organization have published, "An inquiry into Australia's Excess
Mortality", a comprehensive study of the deaths as a result of the
Covid injection roll out nationally, provides ample evidence for the
need for a detailed analysis of what actually happened from March
2020.

I look forward to learning of the suitably serious and deep response
to the Covid response, and the Royal Commission that is needed to
more deeply consider and respond to the terrible trends that have
emerged in our country over the past three and a half years. Thereby
supporting Australians to learn from our recent struggles, to then
step forward in a much more positive direction, which is about
supporting democracy and informed choice not coercion.



Sincerely,

Catherine Heart
