Covid-19 vaccine mandates and the impact on employees and employers

The forced vaccination of the Australian population due to vaccine mandates against covid-19 had a
profound impact on workers financial positions and mental health, caused significant understaffing
across major industries and small business, while taking vaccine hesitancy to the highest levels in
Australian history.

Like prohibition in the early 20th century, while the concept may be for a good cause, the opportunity
that was taken by organised crime to profit from the black market led to a much more significant
detriment to society than any intended benefit.

Conspiracy theorists have capitalised on mandates to exaggerate and exacerbate government corruption
and control of society, exaggerating impact on civil liberty.

As a lawyer involved in challenging over 100 public and private sector covid-19 vaccination policies and
representing 1000s of Australians who had lost their job, in my opinion I have the best perspective to see
all of this.

No risk assessments were provided and the Australian Department of Health and Aged Care, ATAGI and
TGA only provided rudimentary, often insulting, levels of information that were relied upon by
companies to justify vaccine policies.

Naturally these weak positions of logic were heavily challenged by employees across Australia and
placed judges in a precarious position of challenging the legitimacy of government driven public health
advice and also protecting 10,000s employed Australians, during a cost of living crisis.

There is no scientific evidence that can be used to justify mandates relative to the damage that they
have caused.

I can tell you now, there will be no future uptake of vaccination the next time mandates are enforced as
the Australian people are exhausted and devastated by the ramifications that they have caused.

There is an obsession with excess death and covid-19 vaccination. Mandates only fuel this concept.

Major companies include BHP, Westpac, Commonwealth Bank, Woolworths, Coles and all major Public
Health departments and almost all private hospital networks.

Millions believe they were forced to have an experimental vaccine and will not change their mind. Their
point of view was only enforced by the lack of evidence that has ever been provided, that for working
age Australians, any difference in outcome between vaccinated (two dose) employees and unvaccinated
who were terminated with misconduct, actually existed.

Through substantial litigation, evidence has been provided that there was an employer incentive to
market their staff as vaccinated purely for customer retention (due to fear of the unvaccinated) and
operational necessity (due to complex mandate webs with third party contractors) is abundantly clear.

The psychological impact of termination of employment for employees with perfect records, who are
often assets to their employer, is scathing. A psychological impact statement is currently being prepared,
but as a summary, the impact has exacerbated suicides, self harm, depression, divorces, feelings of being
ostracised and victimised and fear of government control and overreach, leading to manic and paranoia.
This inquiry has the opportunity to investigate and reduce the impact of vaccine hesitancy and therefore
staff shortages in future pandemics.
