14th December, 2023 - Submission to the COVID 19 Response Inquiry..

Firstly, I want to report my outrage that the scope of this Inquiry’s
Terms of Reference excludes the Actions of State and Territory
Governments and any transgressions of human rights issues. What a
wasted opportunity to gather all appropriate information, as well as a
waste of taxpayer money as many MPs already advised.

With respect to Governance roles and responsibilities, please note it
was a great assault on our human rights that TGA and ATAGI informed
governments’ mandated statutes during the COVID response.
Remembering that it was well known there was a 99.5% survival rate
from sars cov 2 and that people needed 2.5 co morbidities to suffer
serious effects. Transparency was not practised during this time and
the ability of these organisations to invade the inviolable
doctor/patient relationship was a violation of our most fundamental
human rights protected by law. These statutory mandates need to be
tested in a Response Inquiry setting by truly independent members to
make recommendations, as our courts of law have been lacking. I
understand that government takes decisions based on what is best
for the community as a whole, but each individual still has the right to
make informed decisions on their own health. That is one of our most
fundamental rights backed up by Universal laws ie the Declaration of
the Rights of Man/citizen I789. Governments lost public trust when
they censored and banned both meds and any professional opposing
opinions. Doctor’s advice to patients on the safety of medical
protocols should never be overruled. And it was. Rarely did anyone
get Informed Consent before a vax. The blank page in the vax
packaging says it all. My trust in medical practice has been ruined.
Children, with such a low risk from Covid, should never have been
vaccinated. They have a robust immune system and few
comorbidities.
I want to raise the issue of the PCR testing not fit for purpose yet
being used on a national scale. The amplifications were run much
higher than the normal levels than the test was intended to be run at
and it was stated by its inventor that it would be erroneous to use it
to test for infection, such as a virus. This caused a much higher
covid statistic than was real. All easily discovered information.
ATAGI and the TGA certainly decided to censor any opposing
information to their ill informed narrative. Where did they get their
information from?

I object to the classifying of PCR +ve people as U701 such that if that
person died, the diagnosis would be that the person died OF Covid
rather than WITH Covid, so we had the situation where a person who
died in a motor bike crash was classified as having died of COVID.
This just exacerbated the fearmongering by pushing up the numbers
of deaths from Covid erroneously to suit the narrative. Conversely
when the vax fatality rates were to be published, lengths were taken
so no link was made to vaxes. In fact the process to get onto DAEN
was convoluted and difficult even for Drs that its claimed barely 1­
10% of claimants were successful so their injuries went unreported.
No symptoms does not equate to covid despite using a test not fit for
purpose. I object to the Australian government signing deals with
pharmaceutical companies which are not open to scrutiny. I object
to 2 Nobel prize winning treatments on the WHOs list of essential
medicines, being taken from our pharmacy shelves and made illegal
by massive fines or 6 months imprisonment (Qld) for drs daring to use
what once was regarded as essential meds. At the same time people
were told to go home and take an asprin or else go to hospital where
the risk of being placed on ECMO machines, with a 30-50% rate of
fatality v. covid at .5%. A simple prophylactic use of Ivermectin by
frontline medics as well as the general community would have
stopped a lot of illness and been an effective public spend. Clive
Palmer even paid for Hydroxychloroquine to be available freely to the
Australian population, which the government allowed to be paid to be
transported here by him, then they dumped it and no one was able to
use it. How much of our hard earned was paid on vaccines exactly?
These vaccines couldn’t be produced if a treatment existed!

 I object to taxpayer funds being handed over on such a massive scale
to organisations when the product is still in an experimental phase. I
strongly object to the mass communication that the vaccines were
“Safe and Effective” when, for example, trials of safety and efficacy
on pregnant women weren’t even conducted by^^^H Or that the
control group used were then vaccinated so that no unvaccinated
people existed to compare their results to. I object to the disregard
of the current death data which shows in the order of a 17% increase
in all cause mortality over 2019 levels and not only was the vaccine
not paused, new booster vaccines are coming out, and flagrantly
advertised with no regard to safety or effectiveness.

Patients were exposed to massive coercion to take an experimental
COVID19 vaccine within a hospital clinic setting, workplaces and
local universities, despite patients having compromised immune
systems being pressured to take the unproven experimental vax by
hospitals. This has had the effect of further impairing their immune
system with long term deleterious effects. Workers having to leave
their job when talk of yet more boosters were being illegally
mandated, after 2 vaxes were taken coercively and pericarditis was
evident. Clearly none of these worked, if several needed to be taken
and in fact caused harm. Employment at workplaces subsequently
becoming untenable and causing resignations with no return of
income as enjoyed prior to this time. Despite Qld university bylaws
relaxing and not mandating the vax after a couple of years, the
Sunshine Coast University then decided to follow NSW regulations
which still mandated the vax. Students were not allowed to complete
their ONLINE DEGREES without getting a vax by a Qld uni choosing to
follow NSW regulations not Qld bylaws. How coercive is that.
Vaccine Exemptions were not being given by doctors who were
bullied into this by the likes of the TGA or ATAGI dictates. . No
exemptions were permitted yet politicians and Judges and staff were
automatically granted exemptions.

There is much research to indicate the effectiveness of masks and
faceshields has not been proven to reduce the spread of disease
within community settings. Also anyone involved with confined space
entries can tell you the detriment of a low oxygen environment on
human health, the inside of a mask on the human face is a low
oxygen environment. I object to use of PRE (masks) in the
community, appropriate in operating theatre, for reasons to do with
splashing or doctors sneezing, and certainly not outdoors. Similarly,
the financial supports to business were a disaster waiting to happen.
Government waiving Media License fees to the tune of $80 million
smacks of corruption.

I object to the taxpayer funds spent on ineffective quarantine
facilities. Also a giant waste of taxpayer money were the purpose
built detention centres which were extremely expensive and hardly
used. I object to the lockdowns and closing of state borders.
Families and businesses suffered loss of face to face communication,
many business bankrupted. People were prevented from attending
weddings and funerals. Such events are what life is all about. All
for a virus with a .25-.5% fatality rate. That’s less than 1%. Upon
what data did the TGA AND ATAGI make their mandates and
governments make their decisions?

The implementation of curfews was a ridiculous attempt to control
society. It was an invasion of all Australians’ human rights. Physical
distancing called social distancing to invade our need for socialising,
not wants, a need. Its what keeps human immune systems healthy.
Did we hear that on any television advertising? Covid was an excuse
for so many incursions on our human rights by government’s unlawful
dictates many of which have since been found by the courts to be
unlawful because fines were dropped. What governments should
have been advertising was to get Sun especially and take Vitamin D
as the Indonesians published, take Exercise and healthy food. They
chose to trace individuals with mass surveillancing having to QR
code into shops, cafes and venues and dividing society further by
defamation of the unvaxed when the data it was based on was clearly
erroneous which they would know if they didn’t censor information.

Australian citizens living internationally who wanted to come home
should be able to exercise that right. Locking Australian’s out of their
country was just wrong on every level. They could have been
quarantined in their own home. Many children now have anxiety
issues, with what happened in our schools. I’m sure this is
widespread. The fearmongering which went on by the Australian
mainstream media during Covid was reprehensible. Impressionable
children could not escape the fearmongering. Government
organisations did nothing to stop this nor did they put out any positive
information to counteract this fear porn. Learning at home severely
disrupted their education and socialisation, when they have robust
immune systems. The injury and death rate on vaxed children should
be looked at. Starving granny of family visits at a time when their
immune system would have been boosted by such visits was also
reprehensible. Also vaxing vulnerable populations with an
experimental vax. This Inquiry should look at the fatality rate for
both these demographics.

It is wrong that the taxpayer funds pay for television advertisements
in light of the current worldwide fatality and injury data. 17% all
cause excess death rates in Australia is huge enough. Governments
usually stop medical products after a 1-2% harm rate. Why not this
time? The Inquiry needs to investigate the data where the flu rate
went down significantly in the same years that covid rate was high
and back up again in the years before covid. Coronavirus.
I also want to raise attention to the censorship of any information
being labelled as misinformation, that offered a counter narrative.
Many scientists and doctors were robbed of their provider no. and
income/ funding if they dissented from the government narrative.

I object to the short length of time and difficulty of submissions to
this enquiry right before the busy Christmas period, naturally
politicians would know this prevents a lot of people making
submissions. I should be spending time with my family at this time
of year, especially when the real human rights issues are not
seriously being encouraged.

  1    I want this inquiry to prevent the massive overreach of
       Government into the personal lives of Australians and
       transgression of our protective laws. Lawyers need to reverse
       these practices by a suitable protective Laws. Personal
       freedom being pivotal.
  2    Censorship and financial punishment not be used again to
       prevent information by professionals revealing the truth or at
       least contributing to healthy debate. Interestingly the flu rate
       went down significantly in the same years that covid rate was
       high and up again in the years before covid.
  3    Clearly politicians and bureaucrats should not have the power
       to manage as well as to decipher information. Medicos and
       scientists need to be consulted as vetted by the people, if
       we’re to have uncorrupted input. This situation calls for such
       extraordinary measures to be taken.
  4    Human rights lawyers need to be consulted to prevent
       overriding our human rights and the UN does not have any
       rights to determine our laws. Australia to exit the WHO after
       this debacle. They pronounce anything a pandemic to justify
       their overriding of individual rights.
  5    Recommendations be made to further investigate the illegal
       breaches made on law abiding Australians and the
     transgression of their legal human rights as outlined above.
     These practices have been proven to be erroneous and this
     would have been uncovered had common sense been used
     instead of censorship and heavy handed government tactics.
6    That proper scientific methods be used to ensure proper
     control groups for vaxes. We cannot rely on corporations who
     have a profit based model.
7    That easier processes be created for harmful treatments or
     vaxes to be reported and compensation paid. Ensure the Vax
     corporations finance this and they have no immunity for the
     damage caused. The taxpayers should not be paying for the
     vaxes as well as the damage they cause from poor control
     tests for safety and efficacy.
8    That the media be taken right out of the equation to mount a
     narrative and hijack the mindset of the people.
9       That personal surveillance and tracking not be used.
10   That natural immune building be encouraged to help combat
     viruses and any supportive treatments be available but not
     compulsory. Treatments be explored and not prohibited and
     removed from shelves before we pay out zillions on untested
     experimental vaxes.
