                                Save the Children
                                                                      reasons


Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Save the Children and 54 reasons submission -13 December 2023

This submission is made by Save the Children and 54 reasons. Save the Children is a leading
global non-government organisation focused on children’s rights. 54 reasons is our Australian
service delivery arm, working alongside children and their families and communities to directly
support their wellbeing and development. Working in every State and Territory, we are
Australia’s leading child rights organisation.

Oursubmission is about how the Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 response has
affected children. It draws on what we have heard from children and families and learned from
communities where we work, and on our policy analysis and research. In line with the United
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, we define a child as someone aged up to 18.

For further information, please contact Howard Choo, Australian Policy and Advocacy Lead:


COVID-19’s impact on children has been harmful and will be long-term

COVID-19 continues to place extraordinary pressures on this generation of children. It is
causing harm to children’s wellbeing and development. Unless the policy focus on children in
their own right increases significantly, this harm is almost certain to be long-term.

COVID-19 has catalysed a genuine crisis for children’s mental health and wellbeing. Children’s
routines have been broken, their sources of security and stability dislodged, and their social
connections and emotional wellbeing disrupted. Stress, uncertainty and anxiety have become
the norm. Children today already face unprecedented mental health and wellbeing stressors,
including those arising from the existential threat of climate change and through the online
and digital environment. The pandemic has compounded an already highly challenging context.

Children’s education, learning and development has been interrupted - academically,
vocationally, emotionally and socially. Engagement with learning dropped sharply during the
pandemic and permanent disengagement looms for many, spanning 'checked out’ and
disruptive behaviour in class, school refusal and absences, and ultimately school ‘drop outs’.

The family environment, which is crucial to children’s wellbeing, is under extreme strain.
Families continue to be under enormous stress, financially and in general. Child maltreatment
risks, including physical, sexual and emotional abuse, neglect, and experiencing domestic and
family violence, have increased significantly due to the pandemic.

Two Save the Children reports containing evidence of these harmful impacts are attached:

    •   Build back better: Student wellbeing, engagement and recovery in Australia - analysis of
        COVID-19’s projected impact on children’s outcomes, including in the longer term1
    •   The True Cost of COVID-19 - research into the experience of Australian children and
        families and analysis of population data and indicators of COVID-19’s impact on them.2


1 Policy brief, November 2020. Available at https://www.savethechildren.org.au/getmedia/8af84232-lfaa-
41a0-a455-eb9645327b0a/stc01744-pol icy-brief-student-well being,-engagement-and-recovery-fa. pdf.aspx.
2 Research report, May 2022. Available at https://www.savethechildren.org.au/getmedia/61a5547c-9eca-
42db-992c-f2273fcbef9e/True-Cost-of-COVID-report Save-the-Children.aspx.



                                                    1
                               Save the Children
                                                                  reasons

COVID-19 has increased social inequity

The adverse effects of the pandemic have fallen disproportionately on children and families
who were already experiencing disadvantage, especially those experiencing or at risk of
poverty. Policy responses have not adequately recognised these disproportionate effects,
driving increasing inequity and more deeply entrenched intergenerational disadvantage.

The Commonwealth Government ’s short-term support for families in response to COVID-19
was effective in supporting children. The temporary increase to the rate of JobSeeker and
other income supports, and short-term provision of free childcare, were significant and
impactful for children. The income support increase was particularly notable. While in place, it
successfully lifted many children out of poverty and demonstrated the effectiveness of such an
intervention. Its removal was a major missed opportunity and did significant harm.

Children have been largely overlooked in the COVID-19 response and subsequent reviews

Despite the pandemic’s significant impacts on them - today and throughout their lifetimes -
children, as a specific cohort, have been largely overlooked in Australia’s COVID-19 response.

Few responses have aimed directly at supporting children. Moreover, responses affecting
children appear to have been decided predominantly based on consideration of how they
affected adults. Children’s interests appear to have been, at best, incidental considerations,
even where children were directly and significantly affected.

For example, based on health agencies’ advice, the extensive school closures experienced by
many children appear to have been necessary to limit the spread of COVI D-19. However,
children’s interests do not appear to have been meaningfully considered when decisions were
made, even though children were the most affected. These measures significantly impaired
children’s learning, wellbeing, and in some instances safety, due to the withdrawal of the 'safe
space’ that schools provide for many vulnerable children. These harms do not appear to have
been adequately considered. Unsurprisingly, they have not been adequately addressed.

The views of children themselves have not been heard or taken seriously throughout the
pandemic, despite their clear stake in the COVID-19 response. This has harmed children’s
wellbeing, both directly by increasing their sense of disempowerment, anxiety and stress, and
indirectly through less effective policy-making and implementation relating to children.

The various reviews and 'lessons learned’ exercises examining government responses to the
pandemic to date have replicated this omission by in turn largely overlooking how children
have been affected. The current inquiry is an opportunity to rectify this large oversight.

There is no comprehensive plan addressing COVID-19’s longer-term impacts

Commonwealth Government responses have predominantly been short-term and directed at
immediate impacts of the pandemic. There has been a lack of more comprehensive plans taking
into account longer-term impacts, such as those that children are likely to experience.

The resultant harm to children is being felt now and has the potential to be long-term,
impairing lifelong learning, development, and social and economic participation. This would
entail huge downstream costs in reduced economic productivity and workforce participation,
greater welfare reliance, and increased strain on the public health and criminal justice systems.

Overlooking children’s specific needs in the response to the pandemic has been a striking
public policy failure. It has been a key missed opportunity to build resilience in a critical cohort
of Australia’s population against future crises.



                                                  2
                                  Save the Children
                                                                         reasons

Lessons and implications for future pandemic and crisis preparedness

    1.        Focus on children in their own right

The COVI D-19 pandemic has highlighted, and exacerbated, significant pre-existing
inadequacies and inequities in how the Commonwealth and other Australian governments
respond to children’s needs and interests. The clearest lesson is that Commonwealth
Government policy-making and other actions should focus much more directly on children in
their own right - not just as part of 'families’ or as adjuncts to adults. Had this been the case
throughout the COVID-19 response to date, children’s outcomes would have been far better.

    2.       Invest in children’s wellbeing and resilience

A focus on children in their own right is also essential to support children’s recovery, and build
their wellbeing and resilience to future health crises. In turn, this is integral to building broader
community-level resilience. Australia’s future wellbeing depends on how this generation of
children recovers. Children should always be a policy priority, and especially now.

Preventing harm or intervening as early as possible is always better, and vastly less costly, than
dealing with problems once they have already become acute. There is no better early
intervention than focusing on children and their needs. Coordinated, increased investment in
children’s wellbeing and resilience would provide a very high social and economic return.

    3.       Establish a National Children’s Plan to ensure a coordinated response to children’s needs

The Commonwealth Government has the opportunity and the responsibility to address these
generational challenges by creating a National Children’s Plan.3 This plan would not be specific
to COVID-19 recovery, but would incorporate the lessons of the response to the pandemic
and establish a strong foundation of preparedness for future crises. It would set out a
comprehensive and coordinated long-term plan of action and investment for all Australian
governments to make children a national policy priority and ensure their rights are fully met.

Key elements of the National Children’s Plan would include:

    1. Appoint a Cabinet-level Minister for Children, responsible for all ages from birth to 18
    2. Systematically consider, set targets towards, and measure the impacts of all
       government decisions on children, across portfolios and jurisdictions4
    3.      Launch a national agenda for children’s participation and civic engagement
    4. Invest in children’s wellbeing and resilience by: (a) funding the National Children’s
       Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy; (b) establishing a funded national program for
       schools to access specialist external programs to promote wellbeing, resilience and
       engagement; and (c) systematically measuring and monitoring student wellbeing
    5.      Coordinate a national strategy to keep students engaged with learning
    6. Support families to meet their children’s needs, including raising the rate of income
       supports above the poverty line so that all children have access to the material basics
    7. Institutionalise effective Commonwealth-State collaboration so that children no longer
       fall between the gaps due to unclear responsibilities and accountability for them.




3 See Australian Child Rights Taskforce, Save the Children & 54 reasons, and UNICEF Australia, 2023, Blueprint
for a National Children's Plan (forthcoming).
4 An existing resource that could assist is the Australian Human Rights Commission's Child Rights Impact
Assessment tool: https://humanrights.gov.au/our-work/childrens-rights/publications/safeguarding-children .



                                                       3
