Australian
Chamber of Commerce
and Industry




Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry




Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission
December 2023
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   Working for business.
   Working for Australia.

   Telephone 02 6270 8000 | Email info@acci.com.au | Website                             ac            u


   Media Enquiries
   Telephone 02 6270 8020 | Email media@acci.com.au



   Canberra Office
   Commerce House
   Level 3, 24 Brisbane Avenue
   Barton ACT 2600
   Kingston ACT 2604

   Melbourne Office
   Level 3,150 Collins Street
   Melbourne VIC 3000

   Perth Office
   Bishops See
   Level 5, 235 St Georges Terrace
   Perth WA 6000




   ABN 85 008 391 795
   © Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry 2023

   This work is copyright. No part of this publication may be reproduced or used in any way without acknowledgement to the Australian Chamber of Commerce
   and Industry.

   Disclaimers & Acknowledgements
   The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has taken reasonable care in publishing the information contained in this publication but does
   not guarantee that the information is complete, accurate or current. In particular, ACCI is not responsible for the accuracy of information that has been
   provided by other parties. The information in this publication is not intended to be used as the basis for making any investment decision and must not be
   relied upon as investment advice. To the maximum extent permitted by law, ACCI disclaims all liability (including liability in negligence) to any person arising
   out of use or reliance on the information contained in this publication including for loss or damage which you or anyone else might suffer as a result of that
   use or reliance.
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   Table of Contents

   Executive summary                                                                                      1

   Introduction                                                                                           3

   Background                                                                                             3

   Governance                                                                                            4
     Coordination of pandemic response                                                                   4
     Communications between governments and industry                                                     6

   International policies                                                                                7
      International test case                                                                            7
      Cruise and biosecurity                                                                             8

   Support for industry and business                                                                     10
     Financial support                                                                                   10
     A structured reopening is necessary                                                                 10
     Support for international workers and hospitality                                                   11

   About Australian Chamber - Tourism                                                                    14




          i   Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   Executive summary

   Australia is an open trading nation which derives enormous economic and social benefit from being
   engaged with other countries for business, trade, family, culture, leisure and sport. Some of our most
   lucrative and job-generating export industries are in the service economy, such as tourism, international
   education, events and professional services. Unfortunately, each of these industries was significantly
   hampered by the prolonged closure of Australia’s international borders, and with uncertainty as to when
   any reopening would occur.

   During the pandemic, Australian Chamber - Tourism (the Chamber) acted quickly to develop policies and
   provide advice to governments on how to best support the reopening of international borders in a phased,
   risk-based manner so as to support the recovery of travel and tourism as best as possible.

   While not all proposals put forward were adopted while pandemic restrictions were in place, we take this
   opportunity to provide recommendations developed through extensive consultation with industry which, if
   adopted, would better support travel and tourism in a future pandemic or the like.




      Improved government coordination:

     A coordination mechanism must be established to improve the pandemic response at a federal level, with a
     particular focus on effective stakeholder engagement. Such a body must include representation from travel and
     tourism.




     Transparent communications to industry and the public:

     Communications between and from state and territory and the federal government to industry and the public must
     be more cohesive.

     There must be greater transparency for the requirements for the easing of restrictions.




     Test case for international reopening:

     A template or scaffold should be developed with a friendly, neighbouring country to allow the early reopening of
     international borders and expedite the recovery of travel and tourism.

     Governments should consider a national approach to domestic and international border policies.




     Adopting industry advice:

     Governments should give greater consideration to reasonable reopening plans developed and put forward by
     industry.




          1   Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




     Tailored support for travel, tourism and hospitality:

     Tailored supports should be available for travel, tourism and hospitality businesses, recognising the impacts of
     restrictions and the time required to recommence operations.




     Structured reopening plan:

     A target timetable for the reopening of travel, tourism, hospitality and events should be developed which clearly
     outlines the steps required for each stage to provide necessary certainty to businesses.

     The Restart Plan developed by the Tourism Restart Taskforce should form the basis of any timetable.

     There must be adequate notice and communication of each step.




     Support for international visa holders and upskilling:

     Appropriate supports must be in place to support the return of Working Holiday Makers and skilled migrants once
     borders reopen.

     Upskilling for workers in the hospitality sector must be appropriately funded to meet worker and skills shortages.




       2    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   Introduction

   The Australian Chamber - Tourism (the Chamber) welcomes the establishment of the Commonwealth
   Government’s COVID-19 response inquiry and appreciates the opportunity to make a submission.

   Australian travel and tourism were significantly impacted by the restrictions put in place to manage the
   impacts of COVID-19. While many of these restrictions were necessary to protect lives, the Chamber
   strongly believes that were a number of areas where all governments could have better supported travel
   and tourism, and where better supports can be adopted for future events.

   Through this submission, the Chamber outlines recommendations which we believe, if adopted, could
   contribute to a more expedient recovery of Australian travel and tourism if future pandemics or the like
   are experienced.




   Background

   Before the pandemic restrictions in Australia, domestic and international tourism and travel spending
   totalled $166 billion and was the fourth largest export sector.1 In the regions, there was a direct benefit
   too, with 44 cents of every tourism dollar spent in regional destinations,2 and the industry supported over
   one million jobs, directly or indirectly.3

   There are more than 330,000 businesses in the visitor economy, accounting for approximately one in
   seven of Australia’s 2.4 million businesses. Of these, over 100,000 are in regional Australia.4

   Tourism was then the first to feel the impacts of COVID-19 restrictions with the Chinese tourism travel
   ban in February 2020, closely followed by a more complete tourism and travel shut down by border
   closures, business closures and all major events cancelled by the COVID-19 restrictions with minimal
   certainty as to its future. The restrictions compounded the impact of the 2019-20 bushfires, estimated to
   cost travel and tourism $4.5 billion.5

   While international border closures were necessary to stem the spread of COVID-19 within the
   community, their closures had an adverse impact on Australian travel and tourism, from which it is still
   recovering. In September 2023, short-term visitor arrival levels were still 15.9 per cent lower than they
   were in September 2019.6

   Australia is an expensive destination due to the distance from other countries and our tourism destinations
   which are geographically disparate. While many travellers come to Australia through international means,
   they also travel within the country. This inability for travellers to cross state borders significantly hampered


   1 Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, Communications and the Arts (2023), Aviation Green Paper:
           s2     , September 2023, pg.30.
   2 Tourism Australia n.d., The Economic Importance of Tourism.
   3 Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, Communications and the Arts (2023), Aviation Green Paper:
   Towards 2050. September 2023, pg.30.
   4 Australian Trade and Investment Commission (2023), THRIVE 2030 revised: The Re-imagined Visitor Economy Strategy, 1
   March 2023, pg.5.
   5 Carruthers, F. (2020), Tourism loses $4.5b to bushfires as overseas visitors cancel, 17 January 2020, Australian Financial
   Review.
   6 Australian Bureau of Statistics (2023), Overseas Arrivals and Departures, September, September 2023.



       3    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   travel and tourism’s ability to operate effectively, further compounding the impacts of closed international
   borders. While domestic travel would not account for losses due to international border closures, the
   inability to travel between states was significant.

   Once pandemic restrictions came into force, the Chamber acted swiftly to support government in its
   decision-making, attempting to ensure that travel and tourism were not an afterthought when responding
   to the virus. The Chamber was instrumental in forming the Tourism Restart Taskforce (the Taskforce)
   which sought to provide advice to industry and government on the short, medium and long-term priorities
   to rebuild tourism in Australia. Membership of the Taskforce included a range of eminent travel, tourism
   and hospitality industry leaders.

   The Taskforce undertook a range of policy development and advocacy work to advise governments on
   measures to assist with reopening promptly, and how to mitigate the effects of the restrictions on
   Australian travel and tourism. Throughout the course of 2020 and again in 2021 following the resurgence
   of COVID-19 in the Australian community, the Taskforce developed a comprehensive Restart Plan, which
   included a phased, risk-based timetable for reopening the numerous sectors within travel and tourism
   both domestically and for international resumption.

   While many of the recommendations of the Taskforce were not adopted or faced setbacks as a result of
   the resurgence of the pandemic, a number of the recommendations would still be adaptable for future
   pandemic-like situations.

   Within a month of the restrictions being applied, the Chamber developed the ‘Making Tourism COVID
   Safe - Guiding Principles’, which sought to provide protocols for safe operations for tourism and hospitality
   businesses by assisting individual sectors to develop their operational guidelines. These guidelines were
   utilised by industry sector groups, states and international organisations.




   Governance

   Coordination of pandemic response
   The response to COVID-19 has highlighted that we still have not adequately addressed gaps and
   inconsistencies in intergovernmental coordination with regard to overlapping emergency powers and
   responses to disease outbreaks.

   During the response to the pandemic, a number of working groups and taskforces within and across
   various levels of government were established. While each had its purpose, unfortunately, not all groups
   coordinated with each other or with industry adequately.

   There needed to be a mechanism by which information could be easily and efficiently distributed to
   involved stakeholders within government and then shared with industry and the broader public where
   applicable. Too often, the Chamber would be directed to multiple departments and agencies to resolve
   an issue which took time away from the Chamber and the different departments and agencies to which it
   was directed. If there was an effective central point for information, this should have been a rare
   occurrence.




       4    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   It is clear that a more coordinated response will be required in any future pandemic or the like. While
   some attempts to coordinate the pandemic response were made at a federal level, all had different
   responsibilities, answered to and provided advice to different bodies and levels of government, and
   sometimes made conflicting recommendations.

   Perhaps more disappointingly, many of these groups did not have representation from travel and tourism.

   For example, National Cabinet was established to supersede the Council of Australian Governments
   (COAG). National Cabinet was initially a workable mechanism whereby decisions on appropriate
   responses and restrictions were made and agreed between all state and territory governments. However,
   while the intention behind National Cabinet was sound, the practical outcomes were often confused.

   Under Australia's federal system of governance, many of the key decisions made by the National Cabinet,
   advised directly by the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC), fell under the states
   and territories' areas of responsibility. These included declarations to enforce social distancing measures,
   school closures, moratoriums on evictions and operational responsibility for the health system. As a result,
   many of the decisions made by National Cabinet and communicated by the federal government to the
   public were contradicted by state and territory governments, leading to confusion within the community
   and for industry. This was particularly the case where COVID-19 infection rates fluctuated across the
   various states and territories.

   The National Coordination Mechanism (NCM) purported to coordinate engagement through individual
   forums with individual sectors, such as education, public safety and policing, banking, transport, food, and
   agriculture.7 It operated through the Department of Home Affairs and, together with the states and
   territories, sought to coordinate the whole-of-government responses to issues outside the direct health
   management of COVID-19 however, travel and tourism was not represented. Even now, tourism and
   travel are not acknowledged in the ‘impacted communities’, instead only referencing ‘major events’, which
   is broader than the business events sector.

   Another body established, the National COVID-19 Coordination Committee (NCCC), later the National
   COVID-19 Commission Advisory Board (NCCAB), was crucial in advising Australian Government on
   “actions to anticipate and mitigate the economic and social effects of the ... pandemic”.8 Several bodies
   reported to the NCCAB; however, this was not all bodies, agencies or departments. The NCCAB also
   didn’t have any representation from travel and tourism, instead relying on occasional briefings from bodies
   such as the Chamber and the Taskforce. In addition, the operation of National Cabinet was informed
   directly by the AHPPC whilst the views of the NCCC and NCCAB were advanced through the
   Commonwealth Government. This resulted in the rejection of these considerations in favour of the risk-
   averse AHPPC view.

   The Chamber notes the Federal Government’s commitment to establish “an Australian [Centre for
   Disease Control (CDC)] that would ensure ongoing pandemic preparedness and lead the national
   response to future infectious disease outbreaks”. Understanding the arrangements currently in operation
   for biosecurity, emergency management, and public health are critical for considering what is feasible
   moving forward.

   A complete and comprehensive stocktake of activities and programs across the nation, and all relevant
   government departments and agencies should also be undertaken to identify the gaps, priorities and any


   7 Parliament of Australia (2020), Australian COVID-19 response management arrangements: a quick guide, 28 April 2020.
   8 Ibid.



       5    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   areas of inefficient duplication relating to communicable disease preparedness and response. This would
   provide information on areas the CDC should prioritise first and inform the establishment of appropriate
   governance and data-sharing arrangements with other relevant bodies in order to achieve the national
   coordination role the CDC will play throughout its existence.

   While this commitment is welcomed, the Chamber believes that the more crucial aspect to improve future
   pandemic responses will be improving communications from all levels of government, industry and the
   community at large, prioritising transparency and consistency.


     Recommendation:

     A coordination mechanism must be established to improve the pandemic response at a federal level, with a
     particular focus on effective stakeholder engagement. Such a body must include representation from travel and
     tourism.




   Communications between governments and industry
   Not only was there a lack of a clear and representative coordination mechanism, but there was also a
   lack of communication between the existing agencies, departments and industry organisations.

   There must be greater transparency for the requirements for the easing of restrictions. Too often, there
   was not sufficient clarity as to what was required to take the next step towards the easing of restrictions,
   which contributed to the uncertainty for industry and businesses. Despite hundreds of pages of
   submissions of risk mitigations, industry-wide strategies to manage transmission were overlooked in
   favour of the zero-risk framework advanced by the health community.

   There were fractured communications between and from governments of all levels to industry, and each
   had their own approach to their own borders and restrictions within them. In particular, there was a lack
   of communication from governments to travel and tourism businesses about what restrictions would be in
   place and for how long, and what would be required for various restrictions to be eased.

   This was also the case for state, territory, and federal government responses. While there were
   undoubtedly different responsibilities between jurisdictions, there needed to be a more cohesive approach
   to combatting the pandemic. There needed to be a better approach to communicating with the public,
   industry, and other levels of government more broadly. Too often, there were differing approaches despite
   all levels of government receiving the same or similar information, and different reasoning was provided
   for each approach. This contributed to the uncertainty felt within the community and the unease once
   restrictions began to ease.

   Not only did industries have to keep up with the various restrictions across states and territories but it also
   had to keep up with their various timetables and requirements for reopening, which were often different.

   All levels of government should commit to communicating effectively, including between each other and
   with the public. The Chamber notes that this was a key recommendation made by the Senate inquiry on
   COVID-19 in its final report.9




   9 The Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 (2022), Final report, April 2022, recommendation 6.



       6    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




     Recommendations:

     Communications between and from state and territory and the federal government to industry and the public must
     be more cohesive.

     There must be greater transparency for the requirements for the easing of restrictions.




   International policies

   As outlined above, the impact of closed international borders on Australian travel and tourism was
   devastating, so much so that it is still recovering today. While there was undoubtedly cause for some of
   the restrictions to protect the health of Australians, the Chamber believes that more could have been done
   sooner to provide additional opportunities for travel and tourism to recover more expediently.

   In future responses to pandemics and the like, it will be important to ensure that responses are
   proportionate to the risk to the community. While managing the health impacts on the community is of
   paramount concern, the impact of restrictive measures on industries such as travel and tourism must also
   be considered.

   At the very least, there needed to be certainty and transparency with industry and the public regarding
   when and how international borders would open. Throughout the pandemic, mixed messages were
   coming from the private sector and government, such as Qantas announcing the resumption of
   international flights before any government announcement,10 and the government indicating that
   international travel would not restart until vaccinations were rolled out.


   International test case
   For future pandemics and the like, the Chamber strongly suggests having a template or scaffold in place
   with a friendly, neighbouring country to seek to reopen international borders and expedite the recovery of
   travel and tourism and other parts of the economy.

   Bilateral arrangements with countries we are opening travel with could be negotiated to ensure that
   protocols at their end meet our requirements for travel to Australia. Similarly, we could offer suitable
   arrangements for travellers from our country to theirs.

   During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Taskforce put forward a suggested test case between Wellington,
   New Zealand, and Canberra, Australia, as these two cities were COVID-free for an extended period. We
   note that both governments explored and agreed to a trans-Tasman bubble at the end of 2020 which was
   implemented in 2021 for a short time. Both New Zealand and Australia had success in managing the
   pandemic and were able to leverage this as well as the proximity to each other to restart international air
   travel to a degree.

   The case study should be flexible enough to allow an involved city to be supplemented with another that
   would be more suitable. For example, if Canberra was to be more severely or continuously impacted than




   10 Claydon, R. (2021), Qantas flights to US, UK unlikely to go ahead by July, experts say, 7 January 2023, ABC News.



          7   Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   Hobart, there should be provision for Hobart to take Canberra’s place. Alternatively, another country, such
   as Singapore, could be considered.

   There should be a list of countries and cities willing to engage in such a proposal in a similar event. Of
   course, this would only be a preliminary indication of which countries would be willing to engage in such
   arrangements and would be entirely dependent on a successful response to any future pandemic.

   The plan will also require at least one airline to be a signatory to the concept.

   If successful, such a plan would allow tourism and travel to restart sustainably and would be the precursor
   to opening up international borders more broadly. It would work to convince Australians that international
   travel would be safe to commence again and would open the economy at a time when it would be
   desperately needed.

   This approach to reopening would be complemented by a national approach to domestic and international
   borders. As outlined earlier, significant difficulties were encountered by the often-different approaches to
   reopening borders taken by the federal and state and territory governments, leading to confusion and
   travel hesitancy once domestic and international border crossings were permitted. For effective reopening
   - either following a successful test case or otherwise - the Chamber would urge all levels of government
   to consider a consistent, national approach to border policies.


      Recommendations:

     A template or scaffold should be developed with a friendly, neighbouring country to allow the early reopening of
     international borders and expedite the recovery of travel and tourism.

     Governments should consider a national approach to domestic and international border policies.




   Cruise and biosecurity
   While most visitors come to Australia via air travel, cruising is also a crucial avenue that was unduly
   punished during the pandemic.

   Before the pandemic, Australia was one of the world’s top cruise markets. Cruise tourism was worth $5.2
   billion a year to the Australian economy,11 and sustained more than 18,000 Australian jobs including travel
   agents, tour operators, transport workers, food and produce suppliers, farmers, entertainers, port workers
   and technical support providers.

   Cruising to and from Australia was closed from March 2020 until April 2022, after approximately 86 other
   countries had allowed their cruising industry to restart.12

   The reopening of cruising followed the government’s decision to continually extend the cruise ban without
   a clear restart plan, leaving those businesses in limbo and unable to plan for their future. Despite the rest
   of the travel industry being fully reopened in February 2022, cruising had to wait for an additional three
   months because the ban was extended to April 2022, with notice provided just one month prior.13 As
   outlined in this submission, the restart of tourism and travel requires sufficient time for preparations - as
   foreshadowed by industry, it took time after the ban was rescinded before cruise ships were welcomed


   11 Cruise Lines International Association Australasia (2022), Pre-budget Submission 2022-23, January 2023, pg.1.
   12 Parkes-Hupton, H. (2022), First cruise ship to arrive in Australia for two years due to COVID-19 pandemic docks in Sydney,
   18 April 2022, ABC News.
   13 Hunt, Hon G., Andrews, Hon K., Tehan, Hon D. (2022), Cruise ships ban to end April 11,15 March 2022.



       8    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   back into Australia. While the first cruise ship arrived in Australia in April 2022 following the lifting of the
   ban, it was not until 31 May 2022 when the first cruise ship with passengers departed Sydney for
   Brisbane.14

   Many tour operators and transport businesses built up their operations during the growth trajectory of
   cruise tourism and have invested heavily in additional assets specifically to cater to cruise passengers.
   For some of these businesses, the cruise shutdown resulted in a loss of 80 per cent of their business with
   no ability to replace it.15

   Cruise ships have a long and high-value supply chain, with cruise lines spending hundreds of millions of
   dollars each year on Australian produce, wine and other supplies, and many related suppliers such as
   logistics and transport businesses also benefiting. The volumes of primary produce purchased by cruise
   lines are significant. For example, around 2.5 tonnes of Australian red meat are supplied for a three-day
   cruise. One cruise line, P&O Cruises Australia, purchases between 1,000-1,500 tons of Australian red
   meat annually, 20-30 tons of Australian poultry each week, and even higher volumes of fresh fruit and
   vegetables.16 The loss of orders of these volumes due to the cruise shutdown affected the vast network
   of farmers and producers around the country who supply the cruise industry, with regional producers
   believed to be impacted the most.

   Additionally, during the prolonged shutdown of cruising, and in another blow to the industry, Australians
   travelled overseas to go on a cruise.17 Not only did this reduce the revenue available to Australian cruising
   and adjacent industries, it also contracted travel and tourism’s recovery and the broader recovery of the
   Australian economy.

   During the restriction period for cruising, a comprehensive plan was developed by industry, supported by
   the Chamber, to facilitate cruising to restart as quickly and as safely as possible.18 The initial protocols
   outlined a restart confined to domestic waters while travel restrictions were in place, before opening further
   when travel restrictions allowed. Under the plan, mandatory COVID-19 tests for guests and crew before
   boarding, limiting passenger numbers, and conducting daily health monitoring and temperature checks
   for all on board would all be imposed. Quarantine would be required once travellers arrived back on
   Australian soil. If these protocols were adopted, it would have allowed a much quicker restoration of
   cruising operations and contributed to a quicker recovery for travel and tourism more broadly.

   The Chamber urges governments to adopt reasonable plans put forward by industry where safe to do so.



     Recommendation:

     Governments should give greater consideration to reasonable reopening plans developed and put forward by
     industry.




   14 Swain, S. (2022), First cruise in more than two years sails out of Sydney, 31 May 2022, 9 News.
   15 Cruise Lines International Association Australasia (2022), Pre-budget Submission 2022-23, January 2023, pg.4.
   16 Ibid.
   17 Laurence, E. (2022), Aussies heading overseas to dodge government ban on cruise ships, 4 February 2022, ABC News.
   18 ABC News (2020), Cruise industry to introduce tough new COVID-19 measures when ban lifts in December, 29 November
   2020.



       9    Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   Support for industry and business

   Financial support
   During the shutdown phase, it became clear that the restart of travel, tourism and hospitality would require
   significant planning. The lead time for bookings and ongoing cancellations, flight route planning, staffing
   upskilling and re-engagement as well as COVID-19 safety measures all needed to be scheduled and
   implemented to ensure the efficient recovery of the sector.

   Government measures, such as cash flow support, JobSeeker and JobKeeper, allowed many businesses
   to survive most of the restriction period. However, these programs did not extend for the life of the
   international border closures and, as such, could not support all travel and tourism businesses. Many
   businesses had to dip into their business reserves and personal savings to stay afloat.

   While the industry welcomed the support when they were available, the Chamber believes that there
   needs to be specific support available for travel, tourism and hospitality businesses, recognising the
   impacts of restrictions and the time required to recommence operations. This would also be the case
   where there are international border closures that outlast domestic restrictions. The types of businesses
   that would likely be eligible would include travel agents, inbound tour operators, cruise, coach tourism,
   business events, as well as accommodation and hospitality venues in locations that are reliant on
   international travel.

   Such supports should also apply to those businesses which were completely shut down by government
   order during the pandemic. These businesses faced a debt cliff built up through the continuation of fixed
   costs while their businesses were completely closed.

   Just as travel, tourism and hospitality businesses require advanced warning about changes to restrictions
   and requirements for reopening, businesses should also be advised well in advance of any changes to
   the JobKeeper payments or the like, where possible.

   These supports need to be easily adaptable where restrictions are put in place with short notice, with the
   appropriate infrastructure maintained so businesses can receive payments promptly.


      Recommendation:

     Tailored supports should be available for travel, tourism and hospitality businesses, recognising the impacts of
     restrictions and the time required to recommence operations.




   A structured reopening is necessary
   Many facets of travel and tourism cannot simply restart or reopen with a few days warning. Many
   businesses in the industry require bookings to be made in advance so sufficient staff can be rostered,
   equipment can be in place, and necessary permissions can be obtained. For the events sector, for
   example, it is simply impossible to pull together all aspects - catering, staffing, the venue, speakers,
   accommodation - without weeks of lead in time. This is even more so the case where protocols and
   COVID-safe plans had to be developed and approved.




     10     Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   A target timetable for travel, tourism, hospitality and events restart should be developed to clarify the
   conditions that will enable each step to be taken. Without knowing what the next pandemic or the like will
   look like or how it will unfold, at the very least, the government should commit to developing such a
   timetable in an expedient manner to provide some additional certainty to these industries.

   The work of the Taskforce should form the basis of any timetable, as it was developed as a phased, risk­
   based approach to reopening. It would be prudent to develop such a timetable that can be flexible enough
   to adapt in the face of changing conditions but which provides some level of certainty to businesses and
   industry so they will be supported to open when safe to do so, and to get a head start on such a task
   noting the difficulties following the COVID-19 pandemic and accompanying restrictions.

   At each step, there must be adequate notice and communication to provide sufficient lead time to facilitate
   travel to recommence effectively. Part of this will require effective communication channels as outlined
   above.


      Recommendation:

     A target timetable for the reopening of travel, tourism, hospitality and events should be developed which clearly
     outlines the steps required for each stage to provide necessary certainty to businesses.

     The Restart Plan developed by the Tourism Restart Taskforce should form the basis of any timetable.

     There must be adequate notice and communication of each step.




   Support for international workers and hospitality
   Travel, tourism, hospitality, accommodation and events sectors depend highly on skilled migrants and
   international workers.

   When international borders closed during the pandemic and international visa holders were invited to
   return to their country of origin, a huge flow on effect commenced, the effects of which we are still seeing
   today.

   These international visa holders include Working Holiday Makers (WHMs). WHMs are essential for
   Australian tourism, particularly in regional and remote Australia, due to their spending as visitors and their
   contribution to the labour market. The WHM program delivers enthusiastic and mobile workers to regions
   where labour is most needed, which enables regions and businesses to meet seasonal labour needs
   thanks to the flexibility of the visa.

   WHMs contributed $3.2 billion to the Australian economy in the year immediately before COVID-19
   restrictions,19 much of which was spent in the regions. Before the COVID-19 restriction period, 22 per
   cent of WHMs extended their visa past the first year, accounting for around $577 million of spending in
   the visitor economy. This is a significant contribution, especially when spent in regional tourism areas
   struggling to recover after years of disruption.

   The lack of international students and WHMs during the pandemic exacerbated the difficulties in securing
   unskilled labour, particularly for short-term and seasonal work. The inability to bring in skilled migrants to




   19 Tehan, Hon D. and Hawke, Hon A. (2022), Attracting more Working Holiday Makers, 31 January 2022.



     11     Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   fill gaps in the workforce limited both the services provided to local communities and job opportunities for
   Australians.

   There needs to be appropriate support in place for international visa holders, particularly WHMs and
   skilled migrants, to come to Australia to support industries such as travel and tourism, particularly
   hospitality, when borders reopen.

   In addition to the lack of access to workers, throughout the period of the COVID-19 restrictions, many of
   the products, services and techniques employed across travel, tourism, hospitality, accommodation and
   events have changed. The application of technology has changed immensely with contactless technology
   for travel, service and payments at the forefront of this change.

   In the hospitality sector, food delivery technology has greatly increased restaurant takeaway. This is part
   of the 36 per cent growth above pre-COVID-19 restriction levels that the restaurant, cafe and takeaway
   food service sector has experienced.

   These factors, and significant changes in the distribution methods for travel and tourism, have meant that
   staff have needed to gain extra skills to deal with workplace operations. New entrants into the industry
   over the past 12-18 months have not had the benefit of pretraining through entry-level programs and have
   come into the workforce with significant skills gaps.

   Current workforce shortages also mean that the pressure in workplaces to deal with increased levels of
   trade limits their capacity for formal off-site upskilling programs. Employers are looking for just-in-time
   very short training solutions to deal with workplace problems.

   There are a number of projects across the sector that have been developed to deal with this specific
   demand, mostly through micro-credentials. These short courses, many of which lead to recognition in the
   formal training system, need to be funded by governments to meet the sector's skills needs.

   Hospitality was hit incredibly hard during the pandemic. While the return to dining was one of the first to
   be reinstated after the initial restrictions, there were limitations on businesses which, for many, did not
   enable them to operate viably. This limitation slowed tourism’s restart and the capacity of businesses to
   re-engage displaced employees.

   As the Taskforce noted in its initial report, reasonable social distancing combined with other COVID-safe
   policies that businesses were required to create and follow would permit hospitality businesses to operate
   more viably and create more dining and job opportunities.

   Even when National Cabinet agreed to ease restrictions from 1 person per 4 square metres to 1 person
   per 2 square metres, some states and territories did not immediately follow through. This was another
   example of the fractured approach to combatting the virus across the country and did nothing to deliver
   certainty for affected businesses. The Chamber provided a detailed analysis, supported by medical
   evidence of alternative operating models for hospitality businesses during the restriction period. Whilst
   advanced through the NCCC and NCCAB process, these were unable to be considered by the AHPPC
   given their structure.




     12     Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




     Recommendations:

     Appropriate supports must be in place to support the return of Working Holiday Makers and skilled migrants once
     borders reopen.

     Upskilling for workers in the hospitality sector must be appropriately funded to meet worker and skills shortages.




     13     Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




   About Australian Chamber - Tourism

   Australian Chamber - Tourism is a peak body representing Australian businesses engaged in the visitor
   economy. It brings together key participants in the tourism and travel sector to advocate better policies,
   including tax, regulation, tourism marketing, research, labour supply, visas and infrastructure. The
   Chamber is part of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Australia’s largest and most
   representative business network.

   The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry represents hundreds of thousands of businesses in
   every state and territory and across all industries. Ranging from small and medium enterprises to the
   largest companies, our network employs millions of people.

  ACCI strives to make Australia the best place in the world to do business - so that Australians have the
  jobs, living standards and opportunities to which they aspire.

   We seek to create an environment in which businesspeople, employees and independent contractors can
   achieve their potential as part of a dynamic private sector. We encourage entrepreneurship and innovation
   to achieve prosperity, economic growth, and jobs.

   We focus on issues that impact on business, including economics, trade, workplace relations, work health
   and safety, and employment, education, and training.

   We advocate for Australian business in public debate and to policy decision-makers, including ministers,
   shadow ministers, other members of parliament, ministerial policy advisors, public servants, regulators
   and other national agencies. We represent Australian business in international forums.

   We represent the broad interests of the private sector rather than individual clients or a narrow sectional
   interest.




     14     Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian Chamber
Tourism




     Australian Chamber - Tourism Members

                                                                   Australian
                                                                   Business                                                                                                 ACT
                                                                   Events                                                                                                   BRANCH
                                                                   Association
              Accommodation Australia




          u
          Il Australian Hotels Association
              |   WESTERN AUSTRALIA
                                                          REGIONAL
                                                          TOURISM                                         A?/
                                                                                                                                Australian
                                                                                                                                Retailers
                                                                                                                                Association
                                                                                                                                                        ATECO
                                                                                                                                                        Australian Tourism Export Council    >*'




                   ATIA                                                                                        BICU
                                                                                                                                                                                   Poswred by

                                                                                                                                                                               BUSINESS
                                                                                                                                                                                    NSW
                     Australian Travel
                                                                                                               Bus Industry Confederation
                   Industry Association                    Boatrng Industry Association                              moving people




                                Canberra
                                                                                                                        Clubs Australia                                                     LINES
                                Business Chamber             Caravan                                                                                              IIX INTERNATIONAL
                                                             Industry                                                                                                   W ASSOCIATION
                                                             Auocanon at Aui»«a




                                                                                                                        QUEENSLAND




                                                                                                           O
             1 __       _         National
             NRA                  Retail
                                                           IMRMA                                                        TOURISM INDUSTRY
                                                                                                                        COUNCIL
                            .     Association
                                                          mynrma.com.au                                                                                            Restaurant
                                                                                                                                                                   & Catering




                                                                                                                                              Victorian
                                                                                                                                              Chamber of Commerce
                                                                                                                                              and Industry
                                                                                          f TOURISM TRAINING
                                                   TCCI                                    AUSTRALIA




                                                                                           Global Blue                                 TH E<STAR




                                                                                          Australian
                                                                                          Chamber of Commerce
                                                                                          and Industry




     15           Australian Chamber-Tourism Submission: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Australian
Chamber of Commerce
and Industry
