      Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                        Submission



I am a woman, who lived alone in Melbourne's inner west, during the oppressive and
now largely discredited, draconian response of the Andrews Labor government (“the
Response”), to the COVID-19 pandemic. During that that time, I was isolated and
alienated, and became deeply depressed.

I acknowledge that many other States and Territories modelled the Response and that
the Federal government was willing to allow them to them carte blanche, to behave
in a manner more reminiscent of communist China, than the Australia known and
loved by myself and my ancestors.

As the granddaughter of an ANZAC, I was incensed by the brutality of the Response
and the trashing of individual human rights, freedoms and the great Australian way of
life, for which my grandfather fought. Despite returning from WWI, there is no doubt
in my mind, that the war claimed his life tragically early and left my infant mother
without a father.

In mid-2022, I suffered a severe mental health event, which saw me flee Victoria for
the relative safety of a quiet coastal hamlet in New South Wales. I left behind my
home, three children, six grandchildren and friends. I subsequently spent six months
undertaking trauma therapy, with a long and slow recovery to full mental health.
Nonetheless, I still experience an extreme reaction to the sound of an overhead
helicopter, so wonder whether anyone every truly recovers from such brutality.

I demand:

1.    A Royal Commission for a full investigation into the manner in which all levels of
      Australian government responded to the alleged COVID-19 threat.

2.    Justification for State governments, as members of a Federation, closing their
      borders.

3.    Full exposure of corrupt vaccine acquisitions and secret contracts with vaccine
      manufacturers.

4.    Justification for the illegal vaccine mandates.

5.    Justification for official misinformation about vaccines being safe and
      effective, when in fact, they did not prevent transmission and have caused
      untold injury and death.

6.    Full disclosure about the true number of vaccine injuries and excess deaths in
      Australia.

7.    Justification for the silencing and persecution of doctors and other scientific
      experts.
8.     Justification for the censorship of doctors by AHPRA and ATAGI.

9.     An explanation as to why governments are still promoting unsafe and toxic
       COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters.

10.    Compensation for the COVID-19 vaccine injured.

I live in hope that Australians will receive honest responses to demands of this type but
actually expect nothing more than lip service.

Yours faithfully.
