To: The Commonwealth Government COVID-19 response inquiry

 I am writing to the enquiry to assist in their consideration of the key health response measures, in this
 case the vaccine rollout across Australia in 2021 and 2022. My position is that any rational observer
 should have known from mid 2021 that mass vaccinations across the Australian people was a very
 poor and dysfunctional policy choice. We have now seen, by mid 2023, many governments around the
 world restrict mRNA COVID vaccines to those at high risk only, and some have withdrawn all such
 vaccinations. This is at sharp odds with the federal government's mass vaccination of all Australians,
 and I would hope the inquiry will focus on why that poor decision was taken.

 I have over 30 years of experience working in the area of financial crime, fraud, and other high-risk
 issues. I have worked all around the world at a senior level, in public and private sector organisations.
 My skillset is identifying risk factors and failures in governance and risk controls which lead to criminal
 acts or harm, as well as identifying where individuals and organisations have failed to act in a rational
 way due to a lack of information, lack of ability, or deliberate malfeasance. The federal government
 response to COVID included actions which, to me, are unexplainable from a risk management point of
 view. Whilst some decisions were positive, others, especially around mass vaccination, broke every
 rule in the book on risk and harm mitigation. I am unsure as to whether this was due to lack of
 information, lack of ability, or deliberate malfeasance. I am hoping the inquiry panel seek the answer.

 All my decisions noted below were personal and should not be taken as applicable to any other
 individuals; each individual has a personal medical history and will have varying risk profiles from both
 COVID and the mRNA vaccines (one of the failures in Australia which the inquiry should examine is that
 the federal vaccine project removed doctors abilities to consider the personal medical history of each
 patient and recommend vaccination or non-vaccination accordingly. That is at odds with the past one
 hundred years of our medical system).

 Step by Step Analysis:




    2. COVID was identified in late 2019/early 2020 by governments around the world as a potential
       pandemic event
    3. I monitored the initial reported outbreaks in China closely from January 2020 onwards to
       ensure that I understood the risks arising
    4. Initial reports of the first wave of COVID in China were for mortality rates in excess of influenza
       (Infection fatality rate as high as 2.5 was discussed)




    6. Vaccines were announced as under development in 2020. Normal development timelines for
       vaccines are 10-15 years; development was rapidly accelerated under direction from the
       administration in the United States
    7. Emergency authorisation was given for rollout in 2021 by a number of governments around the
       world. I was concerned at the speed, as the last emergency approved vaccine (for swine flu1)
       generated a number of unforeseen side effect issues in some patients, many long-lasting
8. Reviewing trial data which was publicly available, I was also concerned to note that the
    effectiveness of the vaccines was evaluated only by whether visible symptoms were prevented.
   The trials did not test every participant to see whether the injections were sterilising (as is the
    case for almost all traditional vaccines). This raised the likelihood that the vaccines would not
    stop the spread of the virus in the real world, as indeed turned out to be the case. Taking the
    mRNA vaccines does not protect the wider community or prevent transmission in workplaces. I
    identified this issue in early 2021, and was confused why the federal government was stating
    that if everyone was vaccinated, they would be 'protecting the vulnerable'
9. Risk of death or severe impact from COVID was demonstrated by late 2020 as strongly linked to
    age, weight, and underlying co-morbidities. I have none of the high-risk factors identified as
    elevating COVID risk materially (such as diabetes, extreme obesity, or extreme old age)
10. In 2021, mortality rates rapidly declined as variants emerged (over 40,000 variants identified by
    end 2021, the majority not successful in spreading widely). This was in line with normal
    coronavirus predictions of evolutionary selection pressures, where less deadly versions can
    infect more people and thus become dominant
11. As at July 2021, the United Kingdom government confirmed in response to a Parliamentary
    question" that the Infection Fatality Rate from Alpha/Delta was 0.096 (so overall, if infected by
    COVID average risk of death was less than 0.1%). Alpha/Delta were much more dangerous
    than later variants
12. Vaccines were rolled out in Australia from early 2021, but main offering to population from the
    federal government was from mid 2021 onwards
13. I decided not to get vaccinated until the risk/reward data showed a benefit, especially around
    the issue of side                                                   As an example, NOV AVAX
    contained a protein obtained from moth cells.

14. Australian GPs were not issuing exemptions except in very limited circumstances; even
    individuals with strong adverse reactions to earlier injections were being refused formal
    exemptions
15. By mid 2021, a number of cases reporting serious side effects linked to the immune system had
    been identified in Australia and around the world, including auto-immune related injuries. My
    personal risk evaluation therefore became even more important
16. The Oxford University risk calculator1" was useful at the time in assessing personal risk; In early
    2021, my personal risk of death was indicated as around 1 in 15,000. As of 24th March 2022, it
    was 1 in 30-40,000. Risk was decreasing over time
17. Long term side effects of the vaccines will only be understood over many years, especially for
    specific groups such as myself where unique auto-immune issues exist which could not be fully
    tested for in the initial accelerated trials
18. The risk of death from COVID is pretty well established now as minimal for someone in my age
    and health status; if this changes, the personal risk evaluation will change
19. In a situation where one risk is quantifiable as minimal, and one risk is not quantifiable, it is
    logical to choose the quantifiable risk (in this case, the risk from COVID)
20.      I almost certainly have had, and recovered without issues from, COVID in December 2021 when
                                              COVID and^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^falso
    fell ill with COVID symptoms. RAT tests did not work - but this seemed to be common with
    Omicron
21. I had COVID again in early 2023; this time the RAT tests did show a positive - again, after a few
    days I was fine (although^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^l which was a bonus)
    22. By time of writing, December 2023, I know of six direct contacts who now have severe vaccine
        damage in Australia and around the world from the MRNA vaccines. Four of them were
        healthy individuals before the injections. Two had underlying health or age issues which
        elevated their risk from COVID, so the vaccinations were probably rational to take at the time.

In summary, my decision to remain unvaccinated was based on a rational evaluation of personal risk,
but I expected my appetite to change over time as data changed. As the data continues to emerge, I
have not had one day where I regret remaining unvaccinated, mow a lot of fellow Australians who
deeply regret taking the mRNA injections, and feel the federal government failed utterly in their duty
to inform Australians honestly of individual risks from COVID and/or vaccines.

I would suggest that the issues for the inquiry to consider examining are:

    •    That mass vaccination using an accelerated approval was unprecedented for Australia and the
         specific risk/reward advice given to Ministers on approval of the vaccine rollout should be
         carefully examined
    •    That the long-term effects of the mRNA injections on individuals cannot be known, due to the
         limited testing period and parameters of trials. Most Australians had no way of knowing the
         personal risk - no messaging was forthcoming from the federal government which would have
         led to informed choice.
    •    Mass vaccination during a pandemic was, until COVID, unheard of in medical circles, as it is
         agreed that this may drive evolution of escape variants in a virus, creating a negative effect.
         Why was this risk ignored?
    •    That the federal government and health advisors would have known the Alpha/Delta case
         fatality rate by mid 2021 at the latest, and the difference risk profiles for different categories of
         Australians by age and health. Was this clearly communicated to ministers? On what basis was
         it decided to continue injecting, for example, young males?
    •    That individual health conditions should have been allowed to determine whether vaccination
         was or was not a good risk decision for that individual
    •    That doctors should have had the ability to issue exemptions on the basis of individual
         circumstances; it is clear that the pressure on doctors not to issue any exemptions was severe
         at a federal level

I would be happy to appear at the inquiry if requested, to explain further why the Federal Government
appears to have made very questionable policy decisions in the COVID vaccination program from a risk
perspective.

Gavin Cole                 December 2023

1 https://www.buzzfeed.com/shaunlintern/these-nhs-staff-were-told-the-swine-flu-vaccine-was-safe

" https://questions-statements.parliament.uk/written-questions/detail/2021-07-12/31381

111 https://qcovid.org/Calculation
