                   Submission on the Covid Royal Commission terms of reference




1. Opening remarks


The Covid truth genie is out of the bottle and any attempt to limit the terms of reference of this Royal
Commission to protect the guilty will expose those who engineer those limitations as complicit in the
Covid crimes.

The full truth about Covid, the responses, and the injections, are too horrible for most people to
contemplate because to do would reveal a level of evil in this world they do not want to
acknowledge, however a collection of crimes of this immense size cannot be concealed forever.

Truth inevitably comes to light.

If you conduct this Royal Commission in a completely open manner without any bias, limitations, or
preconceptions, you will ultimately learn that our political parties and bureaucracies are controlled
by unelected foreign organisations and that those organisations are actively working to reduce the
human population.

You will discover that the^^^^^^^^^^^^^Hare just one organisation and that they conspired
together to harm the Australian people and the Australian nation.

You will learn that our most senior bureaucrats acted on the orders of foreigners to harm Australians
instead of discharging their obligations to obey existing laws and preserve established medical
precedents.

You will learn that "Covid-19" was actually just a flu, even if it was laboratory engineered - which is
why flu conveniently vanished during the Covid years. This was the first time in history that flu
vanished, which points to the fact the covid was the flu wrapped in a giant government-funded
campaign. (See "media flooding," below.)

You will find that the injections were not what most people understand vaccines to be and that they
differ so much from traditional vaccines that the definition of the term "vaccine" had to be changed
in reference material at least twice.

If you perform your work in the manner that the people who pay your salaries expect, you will
uncover the evidence that the injections were such a disastrous failure in terms of safety and efficacy
that everyone responsible for the coercion and mandates will need to be tried for crimes against
humanity.

You will find that this injection disaster was engineered to deliberately cull the human herd.

If you do your job properly, you will recommend a Covid Nuremberg Trial - complete with




                                                                                                          1
2. The Constitution


This is an extract from the Australian Constitution, with my highlighting..
My comments appear below.

Part V- Powers of the Parliament

51. Legislative powers of the Parliament The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have
power12 to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect
to:
(xxiiiA)13 the provision of maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child endowment, unemployment,
pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits, medical and dental services (but not so as to
authorize any form of civil conscription), benefits to students and family allowances;

That is, the Parliament has the power to make laws regarding medical and dental services - but not
so as to authorize any form of civil conscription.

From the Constitution's notes...

13. Section 51 (xxiiiA) - This section was inserted by the Constitution Alteration (Social Services) 1946.

The Constitution Alteration (Social Services) 1946 was the result of the Referendum held on 28
September 1946. It's proposal was to introduce s51(xxiiiA) as we know it today.

In the ten months leading up to the 1946 Referendum, the International Military Tribunal was
underway in Nuremberg, Germany prosecuting German war criminals. The prosecutions that came
to be called the Nuremberg Trials were big news at the time. It was why the clause "but not so as to
authorize any form of civil conscription" was included after "medical and dental services."

Australians wanted to be absolutely sure that they were never subjected to forced medical
experimentation by their governments - as they were in the Covid years.

When I raised this at the time of the coercion and mandates, I was told that the clause meant
conscription of medical professionals but if that were true it would have said that. It says "any form
of civil conscription" and coercing and mandating everyone into taking these experimental injections
was a form of civil conscription.

Then-health minister^^^^^^s even on the record saying "the world is engaged in the largest
clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever." Australians were part of the biggest medical
experiment of all time - and that was expressly forbidden by our foundation document.

This Royal Commission must consider this monumentally egregious breach of the Constitution in its
deliberations and must recommend prosecutions for those responsible for those breaches.




                                                                                                           2
3. The Nuremberg Code


Australia is a signatory to the Nuremberg Code.

Some "fact checkers" argue that the Nuremberg Code doesn't apply as the Covid injections were
"vaccines" and not experiments. However, the former health minister is on record saying they were
experimental and there is evidence that the doses that were administered were not the same as
those that were tested for safety and efficacy.

This is Wikipedia's listing for the Nuremberg Code, with my numbering and highlighting...
My comments appear below.

The ten points of the Nuremberg Code

The ten points of the code were given in the section of the judges' verdict entitled "Permissible
Medical Experiments":

    1 .     The voluntary consent of the human subject is absolutely essential. This means that the
          person involved should have legal capacity to give consent; should be so situated as to be
          able to exercise free power of choice, without the intervention of any element offeree, fraud,
          deceit, duress, overreaching, or other ulterior form of constraint or coercion; and should have
          sufficient knowledge and comprehension of the elements of the subject matter involved as to
          enable him to make an understanding and enlightened decision. This latter element reguires
          that before the acceptance of an affirmative decision by the experimental subject there
          should be made known to him the nature, duration, and purpose of the experiment; the
          method and means by which it is to be conducted; all inconveniences and hazards reasonably
          to be expected; and the effects upon his health or person which may possibly come from his
          participation in the experiment. The duty and responsibility for ascertaining the quality of the
          consent rests upon each individual who initiates, directs, or engages in the experiment. It is a
          personal duty and responsibility which may not be delegated to another with impunity.

    2 .    The experiment should be such as to yield fruitful results for the good of society, unprocurable
          by other methods or means of study, and not random and unnecessary in nature.

    3 .    The experiment should be so designed and based on the results of animal experimentation
          and a knowledge of the natural history of the disease or other problem under study that the
          anticipated results will justify the performance of the experiment.

    4 .    The experiment should be so conducted as to avoid all unnecessary physical and mental
          suffering and injury.

    5 .     No experiment should be conducted where there is an a priori reason to believe that death or
          disabling injury will occur; except, perhaps, in those experiments where the experimental
          physicians also serve as subjects.

    6 .     The degree of risk to be taken should never exceed that determined by the humanitarian
          importance of the problem to be solved by the experiment.



                                                                                                         3
    7 .    Proper preparations should be made and adequate facilities provided to protect the
          experimental subject against even remote possibilities of injury, disability, or death.

    8 .    The experiment should be conducted only by scientifically qualified persons. The highest
          degree of skill and care should be required through all stages of the experiment of those who
          conduct or engage in the experiment.

    9 .     During the course of the experiment the human subject should be at liberty to bring the
          experiment to an end if he has reached the physical or mental state where continuation of
          the experiment seems to him to be impossible.

    10 . During the course of the experiment the scientist in charge must be prepared to terminate
        the experiment at any stage, if he has probable cause to believe, in the exercise of the good
       faith, superior skill and careful judgment required of him that a continuation of the
       experiment is likely to result in injury, disability, or death to the experimental subject.

My commentary on these ten points...

1 Nobody gave informed consent because nobody was told what was in the vials or of the
extent of the side effects that came with these injections.

2 The injections could not yield fruitful results for the good of society unprocurable by other
methods because protocols based on ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine were perfectly capable of
preventing serious illness or death from Covid. These were banned for use to treat Covid to enable
"emergency use" rules for the injections.

3 The animals that were experimented on in the development these injections all died. Those
behind the injections alleged they didn't know much about the disease.

4 Many people who were coerced into these injections to keep their jobs suffered great mental
anguish in that process. Some were left with health problems. Some died as a direct result of the
injections.

5 The animal testing forewarned that deaths and injuries would occur as a result of these
injections - but they were mandated anyway.

6 The risk of death by Covid was easily managed with protocols based on ivermectin and
hydroxychloroquine, so mandating injections that carried death as a side effect for about one in
1,000 people was not an appropriate solution to a humanitarian problem.

7 People were injected with these chemicals and then sent on their way without monitoring,
which is why so many died at home, at work, or while engaged in sports - far from any facilities that
may have helped them.

8 Many of the injections were administered by nurses and GPs who could not be considered
scientifically qualified persons in the context of the "the largest clinical trial, the largest global
vaccination trial ever."



                                                                                                         4
9 Nobody who was injected to get the chemicals out of their body once that plunger was
pressed home. There was no avenue to escape from the "the largest clinical trial, the largest global
vaccination trial ever."

10       Whoever the scientist in charge was, which is something this Royal Commission needs to
discover, they showed no intention of stopping once the side effects and deaths became apparent. In
fact, these injections are still being pressed upon people who trust the government and the
controlled corporate media.

Australian politicians, bureaucrats, and medical professionals, and foreign and Australian
pharmaceutical company employees breached all ten paragraphs of the Nuremberg Code and that
must be examined by this Royal Commission and recommendations made to prosecute those
responsible for those breaches.



4. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights


This is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights from the UN's website with my highlighting -
https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights

My comments appear below.

Preamble

Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the egual and inalienable rights of all members of
the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,

 Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have
 outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy
freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest
 aspiration of the common people,

Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion
against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law,

Whereas it is essential to promote the development offriendly relations between nations,

 Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental
human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the egual rights of men and
 women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger
freedom,

 Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United
 Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

 Whereas a common understanding of these rights and freedoms is of the greatest importance for the
full realization of this pledge,

                                                                                                          5
Now, therefore,

The General Assembly,

Proclaims this Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement for all
peoples and all nations, to the end that every individual and every organ of society, keeping this
Declaration constantly in mind, shall strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these
rights and freedoms and by progressive measures, national and international, to secure their
universal and effective recognition and observance, both among the peoples of Member States
themselves and among the peoples of territories under their jurisdiction.

Article 1

All human beings are born free and egual in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and
conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.

Article 2

Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of
any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social
origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the
political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs,
whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.

Article 3

Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.

Article 4

 No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their
forms.

Article 5

No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.

Article 6

Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law.

Article 7

All are egual before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to egual protection of the
law. All are entitled to egual protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and
against any incitement to such discrimination.



                                                                                                            6
Article 8

Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating
the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law.

Article 9

No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.

Article 10

Everyone is entitled in full eguality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial
tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.

Article 11

1. Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty
according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.

2. No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not
constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal
offence was committed.

Article 12

No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence,
nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law
against such interference or attacks.

Article 13

Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.

Article 14

Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes
or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

Article 15

Everyone has the right to a nationality.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.

Article 16



                                                                                                          7
Men and women offull age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right
to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to egual rights as to marriage, during marriage and
at its dissolution.

Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses.
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by
society and the State.

Article 17

Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.

Article 18

Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to
change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or
private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.

Article 19

Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold
opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any
media and regardless of frontiers.

Article 20

Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
No one may be compelled to belong to an association.

Article 21

Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen
representatives.

Everyone has the right of egual access to public service in his country.

The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in
periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and egual suffrage and shall be held by
secret vote or by eguivalentfree voting procedures.

Article 22

Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization,
through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and
resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and
the free development of his personality.



                                                                                                         8
Article 23

Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of
work and to protection against unemployment.

Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to egual pay for egual work.

Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his
family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of
social protection.

Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.

Article 24

Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and
periodic holidays with pay.

Article 25

Everyone has the right to a standard of living adeguate for the health and well-being of himself and
of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and
the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other
lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.

Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether born in
or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection.

Article 26

Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and
fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education
shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis
of merit.

Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the
strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote
 understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall
further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.

Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.

Article 27

Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and
to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.




                                                                                                        9
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any
scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.

Article 28

Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in
this Declaration can be fully realized.

Article 29

Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full development of his personality
is possible.

 In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be subject only to such limitations as are
 determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and
freedoms of others and of meeting the just reguirements of morality, public order and the general
 welfare in a democratic society.

These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary to the purposes and principles of the
United Nations.

Article 30

 Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to
 engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and
freedoms set forth herein.

My commentary on highlighted Articles

A2       Australians were stripped of their rights and freedoms described in this Declaration based on
their injection status.

A3       The coercion and mandating to submit to the Covid injections deprived some people of the
right to life, liberty and security of person.

A5       Coercion to accept injections that have side-effects that include disability and death are
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.

A7       Only a very few very senior members of the bureaucracy were protected against
discrimination on the basis of their unwillingness to accept these injections.

A8       Nobody had the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts
violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law when it came to these
injections. Every tribunal was either panicked, controlled, or complicit.

A9       In an unprecedented move in medical history, healthy people were quarantined in a manner
indistinguishable from arbitrary arrest and detention. Australians who were overseas at the time of
the Covid panicdemic were exiled for the duration by not being allowed to return.

                                                                                                         10
A12      Everyone who refused to participate in the Covid psyop was subjected to arbitrary
interference with their privacy by governments and businesses demanding to see "proof of
vaccination" and denying normal service to those who refused. They were also subjected to attacks
upon their honour and reputation through being publicly derided at the highest levels as "cookers"
and "anti-vaxxers" and "science deniers.".

A13     Everyone had their right to freedom of movement within the borders of their state curtailed
by the Covid responses. Everyone who wanted to leave this country, or to leave another country to
return home to this country was denied that right.

A19      Everyone had their right to freedom of opinion and expression removed by government edict
in the name of Covid, including on social media and legacy media platforms. No dissenting views
were permitted, which proved fatal for people who took the injections in the absence of advice to
refuse them and who subsequently died from them. People who held opinions the government
didn't agree with were interfered with by the government blocking them from imparting information
and ideas through any media.

A23      Everyone had their right to work, and to their free choice of employment, and to protection
against unemployment arbitrarily removed by the government in the name of Covid on the basis of
their personal decisions about their own health and the risks presented by the experimental
injections.

A27     Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the
arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits arbitrarily removed by the government in
the name of Covid on the basis of their personal decisions about their own health and the risks
presented by the experimental injections.

A30      Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any
right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and
freedoms set forth herein, and yet that's exactly what Australian governments did.

Australia is either a signatory to these United Nations declarations or it is not. The government
cannot cherry-pick them depending on what they've been told to believe about a given set of
circumstances by unelected foreign organisations - regardless of any perceptions of their "expert"
status. If punishments aren't given to those who breached the UN UDHR then we can exit all UN
agreements at will without consequence. This Royal Commission must recommend either that
Australia exist all UN agreements or those who breached the UDHR be prosecuted for doing so.



5. Media flooding at public expense


Had Covid been the very deadly" disease the government claimed it was, the media would have
made large profits from increased sales as readers and viewers sought as much information as they
could get.




                                                                                                      11
However, the Australian government gave very large sums of taxpayers' money to the media,
ostensibly to help them in a declining market but actually to conform to the narrative the
government fed to them on behalf of the unelected foreign bodies who ran the entire Covid psyop.

That expenditure was effectively bribery of the corporate media and this Royal Commission must
recommend that those who authorised it be prosecuted for misuse of public funds.



6. Contracts with manufacturers


To this day the contracts between the Australian government and the injection manufacturers
remain secret despite the fact that they cannot stand when the safety and efficacy of the injections
were so grossly misrepresented.

This Royal Commission must release those contracts for public examination and recommend the
prosecution of those manufacturers for the misrepresentations that caused the deaths of so many




7. AHPRA's March 2021 silencing of doctors


On March 9, 2021, the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency flew in the case of all
medical precedent and banned health practitioners from criticising the injections in a position
statement that included this paragraph:

        "Any promotion of anti-vaccination statements or health advice which contradicts the best
        available scientific evidence or seeks to actively undermine the national immunisation
        campaign (including via social media) is not supported by National Boards and may be in
        breach of the codes of conduct and subject to investigation and possible regulatory action."

This act prevented medical practitioners who wished to continue in their profession from advising
patients against taking the injections and directly resulted in the deaths of many Australians.

This Royal Commission must investigate AHPRA and recommend prosecution for those responsible
for this directive.



8. Injection deaths


If you missed the recent New Zealand government whistleblower story, one in 1,000 Kiwis were
killed by those shots. The whistleblower was the Health Ministry's database administrator; catch up
here - https://rumble.eom/v3ynskd-operation-m.o.a.r-mother-of-all-revelations.html .

Internationally renowned data analyst                    checked and confirmed that data and has
publicly challenged other experts to prove it wrong, but nobody will accept that challenge -
https://kirschsubstack.eom/p/data-from-us-medicare-and-the-new. lf you'd like to analyse the data
yourself, it's here - https://www.skirsch.com/covid/lsitsafe.pdf .



                                                                                                       12
The NZ government reacted not by denying the data but by arresting the whistleblower: they ignored
his message and distracted the public by vilifying the messenger. That reaction points to the NZ
government's guilt, their foreknowledge, and their complicity in the unlawful killing of their own
countrymen. If they weren't complicit, they'd be lauding the whistleblower as a national hero and
critically examining the data he has brought to light.

Australian government officials cannot possibly be unaware of the developments in New Zealand -
and their silence has been deafening. They have not moved to critically examine our own data,
despite NSW having databases that will likely show the same result as New Zealand's. That means
that our authorities are also complicit in the deaths of their own citizens.

This Royal Commission must recommend that an independent data analyst, preferably Steve Kirsch
himself, be employed to examine all available Australian mortality data to determine if the injections
are responsible for Australia's unnaturally high excess mortality rate and to recommend the
prosecution of those responsible for inflicting this dangerous product on the Australian people.



9. PJ O'Brien & Associates' brief


I urge the Royal Commission to familiarise itself with the brief of information and evidence presented
to the Director of Public Prosecutions,                        by
^^^^^Blawyers on December 3, 2023.

Links to the brief and the supporting evidence can be found embedded in the Substack
                                     here - https://julesonthebeach.substack.com/p/australias-chief-
criminal-prosecutor.

They contain information this Royal Commission needs to know about potential breaches of the
Gene Technology Act 2000 by Pfizer and Moderna.

This Royal Commission must consider the possibility that the Covid injections were contaminated
with synthetic DNA and whether that contamination has caused irreparable harm to Australians, and
to recommend prosecutions as appropriate.



10. The WHO's premature "pandemic" call


When the World Health Organization made its pandemic declaration in March 2020 around 4,000
people had allegedly died of Covid out of some 8,000,000,000 on the planet at that time. Left
untreated, the survival rate for Covid across all demographics was some 99.997 percent. For the first
time in history, influenzas mysteriously vanished in 2020 and 2021.

This indicates that Australian officials did not do their due diligence in taking their guidance from the
WHO and have been negligent in their duties. That negligence caused enormous disruption to
Australians' lives and their national economy. It came at great cost to their relationships and their
personal health.




                                                                                                       13
This Royal Commission must investigate the negligence of Australian officials in following the WHO's
bad advice and recommend prosecutions for breaches of duty of acre as appropriate.



11. The short timeline for submissions for this Covid inquiry.


The Albanese government has failed to adequately promulgate the opportunity to make submissions
to the terms of reference for this Royal Commission to the public and has given an unusually short
timeline to do so. This suggests the Albanese government is attempting to interfere with the
operations of this Royal Commission by limiting public input.

This Royal Commission must investigate whether the Albanese government unduly limited the terms
of reference of this Royal Commission by shutting many Australians out from opportunity to
contribute to those terms of reference.



12. Additional matters to be considered by this Royal Commission


This writer would prefer to see terms of reference for this Royal Commission that allowed it to follow
any and all evidence and to investigate every person and every entity who played a role in the
Australian state and federal governments' responses to Covid.

If that is not possible for whatever reason, then here are some additional matters that this Royal
Commission must investigate:

Mask mandates - there are studies that show that masking caused more health problems than it
prevented and actually increased the likelihood of a wearer contracting Covid.

Lockdowns - there is evidence that lockdowns caused more deaths from other conditions through
delayed diagnoses than they prevented from Covid.

Official misinformation - there is evidence that much of the advice governments provided citizens
was factually incorrect and reasonably should have been known to be factually incorrect.

Claims that injections blocked transmission - there are studies which show that the injections were
never tested to see if they blocked transmission, but the government claimed that they did.

Government censorship of social media - there is evidence that the government conspired with
social media companies to have truth-tellers banned on their platforms at the expense of
Australians' 1992 High Court-affirmed right to absolute freedom of political speech.

Ignoring injection injury - there appears to be little government recognition of the problems and
special needs of Australians who have suffered an injection injury.

The injections are still killing people - please also see      analysis of continuing deaths
here - https://kirschsubstack.eom/p/medicare-death-dat^prove^ne-covid - which is probably
replicated in Australia.



                                                                                                     14
Thank you,
Peter Campion




                15
