Thank you for considering my submission:
I am a semi-retired teacher of history, philosophy and world religions. Based on my professional
background and experience of COVID in rural Victoria, I'd like to make 3 points to the Inquiry:

    1.  Compulsory lockdowns did huge damage to the psyche, liberties and health of all
        Victorians, with their worst effects inflicted on the young who were least affected by
        COVID. Lockdowns should never be used again.
   2. Although policy was said to be "evidence based" and "accord with the best medical
        science" or similar, it differed even between states. It is incumbent on the Chief Medical
        Officer to develop a clear statement of practices to be followed in a future pandemic.
   3. While I understand that the spread of misinformation may be undesirable from a public
        health perspective, sharing insights via free and open discourse in the public square is
        part of Australia's long-established social process. Any censorship should be limited.
The following provides evidence and support for my points, under Terms of Reference 1 & 2.

1. Governance including roles and responsibilities - esp. the roles of the TGA and AHPRA:
Both federal and state governments implemented many policies that deviated significantly from
the readily available on-ground evidence and from the recommendations detailed in the 2019
Australian pandemic management plan for non-pharmaceutical interventions. There was a stark
difference between enacted measures and the actual risk of mortality from COVID. Who
decided to jettison our carefully prepared domestic plan for an uncoordinated grab-bag of
untested tactics that began with mimicking lockdowns from the communist Chinese regime?
        It's troubling that a compromising 96% of the 2020 - 2021 budget of the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) came from industry sources, raising serious questions about
regulatory capture. Why is the health security of Australian citizens open to influence and
compromise by unelected and undeclared vested economic interests of private companies?
        I'm concerned about creeping authoritarianism, such as on 28 July 2020, at the height of
Victorian lockdowns, when Premier Andrews said it's not 'about human rights ... it's about
human life.' Yet, international bioethical norms developed since World War II plainly deny
democratic governments the authority to prioritise public health above human rights
       The Nuremberg code (1949), which was drawn up to prevent a recurrence of the Nazi
human experiments, explicitly requires a mass medical experiment (such as a population-wide
lockdown justified on the grounds of protecting public health) to be supported by reasonable
evidence that the damage of the intended cure to population health is likely to be less than the
benefit.2022, p. 11) say that 'Failure to have that evidence,
and to implement the experiment anyway, is a crime against humanity.'
        Also, the Siracusa Principles (1985) of the American Association for the International
Commission of Jurists (paragraph 58) asserts: 'No state party shall, even in time of emergency
threatening the life of the nation, derogate from the Covenant's guarantees of the right
to...freedom... from medical or scientific experimentation without free consent'.
        On 20 Feb 2021, Greg Hunt, then Federal Health Minister, said (12 Mts 50 sec): 'the world
is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever'. Yet, trials are
experimental, and the function of trials is to identify risks and benefits. That's why trial
participants must give informed consent precisely because of the unknown outcomes.
        Yet, on 11 March 2021, the Australian Health Practitioners Regulation Agency (AHPRA)
issued an uncompromising warning of its 'expectations' and the 'obligations' that health care
'practitioners have a responsibility to participate in efforts to promote ... vaccination'. 'The
position statement warns health practitioners who breach this provision may be subject to
investigation and possible regulatory action'. Who decided the primary duty of doctors was to
obey AHPRA rather than to properly inform patients of the risks/benefits of the new vaccines?
      On 23 August 2022,^^^^^^^^gave a legal opinior on the ramifications of the AHPRA
edict, saying (p.24, para. 57 and p.21, para. 48, respectively) that 'office holders within AHPRA'
who withheld 'evidence-based information from registered practitioners, will arguably find
themselves publicly liable for gross misfeasance for acting in 'bad faith'.'

2. Key health response measures - esp. vaccines, treatments, and public health messaging:
As early as 17 March 2020,                         it a down: COVID-19 'has been called a once-
in-a-century pandemic. But it may also be a once-in-a-century evidence fiasco. ... One of the
bottom lines is that we don't know how long social distancing measures and lockdowns can be
maintained without major consequences to the economy, society, and mental health.
Unpredictable evolutions may ensue, including financial crisis, unrest, civil strife, war, and a
meltdown of the social fabric. At a minimum, we need unbiased prevalence and incidence data
for the evolving infectious load to guide decision-making.' We could have listened at that time.
      A rational alternative course of action in mid-2020 would have been to listen to leading
doctors such                                                               others, who credibly
indicated only a minimalist targeted approach was necessary to deal responsibly with COVID.
      Instead, standard non-vaccine prophylaxis and early treatment protocols were
completely ignored and inappropriate medical interventions were imposed upon those
hospitalised for COVID in the form of mechanical ventilation, remdesivir and bizarrely, the
irresponsible refusal to treat pneumonia with antibiotics as per long-established protocol.
      The lockdowns Australia imposed upon itself were arguably the most disastrous policy in
its modern history. They violated many of our civil values but no one can claim ignorance, given
the early warnings by economists such                               and|
      Our leaders and decision-makers could have known and should have known soon after
the pandemic was first declared that their mandated policies for non-pharmaceutical
interventions were contrary to individual civil rights and grievous to the life of the nation.
      As^^^^^^^Hshows, it was known by February 2020 that the world was dealing with a
virus that primarily endangered the elderly and the ill, and that might responsibly have been
dealt with through 'focused protection', asadvised in March 2020, and as he
and others elaborated in the Great Barrington Declaration in October 2020, Throughout the
pandemic, Sweden showed the proper democratic balance of public health and civil liberty.
       Australia, however, indemnified Pfizer and Moderna without the TGA even doing local
clinical trials before granting emergency use authorisation to these experimental vaccines that
have no established long-term safety profiles. Instead of the TGA being a guardian of public
health, it seemed - like APHRA - to morph into an illicit vaccine enabler; while accelerating the
approval process by short-circuiting safety trials, the TGA has been noticeably tardy in
responding to safety signals and averse to serious investigation of the extensive vaccine injuries.
       Instead of honest information about the risks and benefits of the experimental mRNA
products and their immature developmental state, we were given the false advertising slogan
that vaccines are "Safe and Effective" - a claim that has not been proven true.
       Our ciyil[iber ies Wr ; e rashed by arbitrary government decisions, and social attitudes
were steered by an extreme and unprecedented state-media propaganda campaign of military
grade behaviour management techniques designed to manufacture consent, all to be 'safe and
effective' at saving lives, yet the truth of that claim seems to lack actual on-ground verification.
      The hidden tragedy of COVID policy, as revealed by            id        and others,
includes the burden of huge financial costs on workers, small businesses, the young and the
poor, along with vicious cancel culture against lockdown critics, reprehensible criminal police
brutality against freedom demonstrators, and vastly expanded government powers which will
surely be used against the population in any future economic, financial or health crisis.
      The choice to abandon previous policies in favour of universal mandates to isolate, test,
trace, mask up, lockdown, vaccinate, etc. was based mostly in junk modelling, such as that from
Imperial College, London, which was intended to terrify the people into demanding draconian
'health' measures whose primary purpose was to cynically exploit emotional distress to ensure
compliance with unprecedented, untested, ineffective and destructive policy interventions.
      Did the non-pharmaceutical interventions save lives? Almost certainly some lives were
saved, but at the cost of many more. Then, the Western Australian data on pharmaceutical
interventions shows the spikes in severe adverse events and rises in all-cause (non-COVID)
mortality in all age groups that emerged across the developed world since COVID vaccines.
                                 conclude the national COVID response was out of portion and
largely ineffective.|




      As a result of the national COVID Response, Australia is now gripped by a mysterious and
persistent rise in excess all-cause mortality which the medical profession, mainstream media
and Australian Senate seem profoundly uninterested in investigating. Fortunately for the health
of the nation, the Australian Medical Professionals' Society (AMPS) has done the homework,
and reports comprehensively in a 470-page book Too Many Dead (2023) which is jam-packed
with evidence of the excess deaths crisis directly caused by the government's mandated jabs
and other errors in its response to COVID - the AMPS book can be downloaded for free, here.

My frank assessment of the rushed and dangerous national COVID Response is that it was the
biggest administrative blunder in modern Australian history, where our traditions of liberal
democracy, including freedom of expression and the right to self-determination were ransacked
for the benefit of
      My immediate recommendation is for a substantive reckoning of the mass scale injustices
that were inflicted and for a^^^^Baccounting where those responsible among our leaders,
decision-makers and opinion setters - including chief health officers, heads of governments,
health ministers, public health bureaucrats, regulators and police commissioners; and a truth-
and-reconciliation commission for the bigger cohort of high profile "health influencers" among
epidemiologists, medical expertsjaoliticians, doctors, public intellectuals and media pundits
who gave full rein to their inner^^^to shame, vilify, ostracise and otherwise traumatise all
who dared to think for themselves and refused to go along in order to get along - acknowledge
their actions, recognize where they went wrong, and take concrete steps to change the
institutions, processes, and policy frameworks that produced and condoned such mistakes.
        For any future recurrence of a pandemic, the democratic course of action is to follow on­
ground evidence with a targeted approach to deal with the pathogen. This would include
allowing citizens abroad to come home, advancing highly effective non-vaccine prophylaxis and
early treatment protocols, implementing decent unemployment payments and above all,
soliciting informed consent by remaining consistent with the facts and telling the whole truth.
