My son was bom 10 weeks premature in August 2019. By the time the first lockdown came he was
barely 7 months old. He had been hospitalised for Reflux following discharge (after 6 weeks in the
neonatal unit) and for                              these conditions were considered normal for a
prem baby. He was under two teams and two hospitals - the Neonatal Unit and the local Children’s
Hospital.

My son was last saw face-to-face before the first lockdown in March 2021. The Consultant
Paediatrician said that she thought his noisy breathing was probably


After this appointments were converted to telephone due to covid at both hospitals.

My son started to have hospital AnE encounters due to airway swelling from June.

By September, my son was admitted for emergency surgery (he nearly died) where he was
diagangnsed with                                This is a rare and life-threatening condition. He
was put on a ventilator and had two surgeries on his airway and 12 days in hospital

I believe my son’s diagnosis was missed due face-to-face appointments were converted to telephone
appointments.

Between September 2020 and July 2022 my son had 5 surgeries on his airway and another 15
hospital admissions for days at a time. There were no toys in hospital. There were no play-workers.
No visitors were allowed to help with a sick baby or give me a break.

Sometimes I ate the baby scraps whilst I waited for someone to bring me food or until the baby was
fast asleep at night and then I would run to the machine which sold microwave meals.

The child was constantly sick in between the admissions. There were no face-to-face services to
help us for about 2 years. We had a bit of telephone support from charities.

It never felt enough.

We were traumatised and alone. I am not sure we will get over what we have experienced. The boy
is still having issues on his airway and is now                                     where he has
already had 3 surgeries this year and a life-threatening episode. I have so much trauma.

My boy has been so sick for so long he has missed out on normal life. His neurodiversity is most
likely due to extensive trauma and strong steroids.

The PCR testing every time we went to hospital was awful. One time the baby and I were stabbed
so far up the nose I refused after that. We had had 8 tests. Every test he had was negative. My son
always had a virus but it was never Covid. We were in and out of hospital. We should have been
positive if anyone. Go figure!

I refused testing on the last operation at the Children’s Hospital in July 2022.1 was not allowed to
carry my child to surgery. He was so traumatised he was on Midazolam pre-op.

I will never forget the memory of my child being carried by a stranger to surgery as I would not
agree to a Covid test. This was July 2022! I had taken my boy and held him whilst he was given
gas 4 times. This time I was denied my opportunity to do this due to the protocols in place.
I learned that                                 not subject babies under two years to the PCR test
swabbing the nose - they swabbed the throat instead.

Compassion and reason left with Covid

The last couple of years have been hard on our immune systems - it seems to me that viruses have
hit us both very hard due to everyone being locked away abnormally - in January 23 my boy had
                  for 6 weeks! He could not breathe at night due to this and his narrowed airway. I
thought I would wake up to a corpse. I had to shield him completely as we could not risk a blocked
nose.

He missed out on more nursery. I was isolated and alone (again).

I do not think lockdowns are in any way right. They caused us massive harm and suffering.

The other thing I want to tell you about is my mother (now deceased).

Mom asked me when she was alive, “Do you think you can feel cancer enter your body (in the right
upper lung)?”

I thought this was a very strange thing to ask. (This was after mom had been diagnosed with lung
cancer in her upper right lung).

I asked about when this happened.

She replied, “About three weeks after I had the first Pfizer Covid Vaccine (Feb 2021). I was lying in
bed and I had a searing pain right where my cancer was to be diagnosed. It nearly made me fall
from bed”.

My mom died in January 2023 following the second surgery to remove her lung cancer (first was
last Christmas). My mom had two heart attacks after 24 hours and they say she had a massive
inflammatory response. The Trust opened a Serious Incident Investigation as she was not expected
to die.

A post-mortem was not done for some reason.

My mother had 2 covid vaccines.

We have no heart problems in our family - lung cancer yes.

My mother had Covid apparently at the time of surgery. What is the point of the vaccines? I have
heard the heart can be affected. There are so many unanswered questions for me about this
emergency medicine. I think time will bring answers and the truth.
