My name is                  and I am currently working as a general practitioner in Western Australia.
As a health professional, I have witnessed the detrimental effect of emergency measures (including
lockdowns, vaccine mandates and mandatory mask wearing) to many of my patients' mental and
physical health.



As a doctor, I have great concerns in how the government and chief health officer had managed the
recent COVID pandemic. Some of these concerns are:

    -   I have first-hand experience of treating patients with severe irreversible adverse effects
        caused by the COVID vaccine. Many of them were "forced" or "coerced" into having the
        vaccine to keep their job. The first duty of a health practitioner is the Hippocratic oath; "first
        do no harm." This is underpinned by the principle of "informed consent." The government's
        response to the recent pandemic clearly violated these basic human rights.
    -   In hindsight, we can clearly see that the COVID vaccinations have no benefit in preventing
        transmission or infection, but on the contrary, have caused harmful side effects and even
        death.
    -   I am aware that a few of my colleagues were reprimanded at best or deregistered at worse
        because they stood up and voiced their concerns during the pandemic. Instead of being
        heard, their side of the story was silenced.
    -   Too much power was given to the state government through the "emergency powers"
        resulting in draconian rules being passed without due regard for democratic process,
        especially in states like Western Australia.



How problems can be addressed in future pandemics:

    -   It is important that medical professionals are given the freedom to voice their concerns
        based on their expertise. Censoring only results in bias as only the government's approved
        information was allowed to be heard.
    -   Regardless of the impending danger of a pandemic, it is crucial that basic scientific process
        be utilized to evaluate new and unproved preventative measures, rather than rushing and
        mandating treatments to the public without considering the possible long term side effects
        of such measures (including lock-down and vaccination).
    -   Lastly, it is vital that government policy not come between a doctor-patient relationship. The
        result of removing a doctor's authority to prescribe off-label treatment (e.g. Ivermectin and
        Hydroxychloroquine) by the government jeopardizes a doctor's professional judgement to do
        what is best for their patient.
