Australia had a working pandemic plan; protect the vulnerable and the rest of us get on with our life.

Shutting our internal borders to Australian residents was excessive. This occurred while sports teams
were allowed into states. This clearly highlighted that fit and healthy people DID not need to worry
about Covidl9.

Our international borders were shut to spreaders of this virus originating from China. YET our state
premiers and universities used loophholes to bring in international students through Thailand. None
of these bureaucrats were prosecuted under Australia's biohazard laws as they should have been.



 Shut down of universities, schools and businesses was excessive and we are now paying the price for
this over dramatic response.
The shutting down of^^^^^^^^^^esulted in m\^^^^^^^ailing to continue with a high level

science/maths degree which you claim to support.

Shutting down churches and hunting down those that chose to continue to worship their god was
criminal and should result in hate based crime laws being used against politicians, bureaucrats and
police that did so.

Once the initial two weeks to prepare hospitals had occurred ALL closures should have immediately
ceased.

Many medical staff were without work during this period. Proving that our hospitals were more than
able to cope.

The over the top policing response to masks, social distancing and protests was disproportionate. It
is interesting to note that BLM protests were not classed as super spreader events.

APHRA and other governmental bodies had NO right to enter the professional consulting rooms to
dictate treatment.

The ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine ban was excessive and onerous.

It is inappropriate to use nudge units against your own population. It is also inappropriate to pass
"Covid Pandemic" legislation that essentially strips all human rights away, as both Victoria and
Western Australia did.

The quarantine facilities were a white elephant and the Australian taxpayer should not have to pay
for these.

All state governments, politicians in the ruling party and bureaucrats should face the Australian
Human Rights Commission for their breaches of Federal law and International treaties.
