To:




23rd January 2024

Submission to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Panel Members,

This submission is in relation to the terms of reference listed below:

      •    Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
           medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
           messaging).

Background

I am a member of the general public, with a            career in product marketing, product management and
product testing/delivery/launch. (In the past, I have provided input to ^^^Jregulations and delivered solutions in
response to regulations). During 2020-2022 I investigated and analysed data from multiple sources regarding
Covid-19 and the global health response, for example the statistics and advice from Australia and the UK, the
test summary documents for the Covid-19 vaccines and boosters, the^^^^^|for the vaccir a; B^^^Bhe
   ■vaccine committee streams on YouTube and multiple independent research studies.

The health response

      1.        Vaccination Mandates

Recommendation: In future, do not propose, allow or enforce vaccination mandates. Instead, provide accurate
information and options to the public to retain cooperation and trust.

The Federal Government and ATAGI did not recommend vaccination mandates. This is because they understood
that the Covid-19 vaccines would not prevent transmission in the workplace or crowded settings. The vaccine
manufacturers also never claimed that their products would stop transmission. The Department of Health and
ATAGI also would have known that they would have legal liability for injury if they imposed vaccine mandates.

However, the Federal Government allowed the state premiers and employers to introduce mandates and sack
employees who did not comply. They also allowed the states and employers to discriminate against those who
were unvaccinated.

In my view, the Department of Health should have strongly opposed vaccination mandates, especially outside of
healthcare settings and made clear statements that mandates would have limited usefulness. The Department of
Employment could have warned employers not to terminate employees on this basis, or even introduced
workplace legislation to this effect. The Prime Minister could have advised the State Premiers against this course
of action in National Cabinet meetings. This was an extreme form of coercion which did not support the ethics of
informed consent or the reality of a mutating virus and waning vaccine immunity. It would have been better to
introduce regular rapid antigen testing instead.

The vaccination mandates and the resulting loss of employment contributed to economic hardship, mental stress,
and loss of trust in state governments and corporations. There were employers still using this as an excuse to
discriminate against and sack staff in 2023 (example name can be provided), despite most vaccinated employees
having contracted the virus and circulated it around the workplace by this time.

The UK vaccination surveillance reports clearly showed, from early 2021, the risk of infection, hospitalisation and
death, stratified by age group (every decade) and vaccination status.
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-vaccine-weekly-surveillance-
reportshttps://www.qov.uk/qovernment/publications/covid-19-vaccine-surveillance-report
    2.        Public Messaging

Recommendation: Ensure that Government and media public messaging is not misleading and deceptive. When
recommending products/vaccines, this should come with disclosure of potential side effects and details of actual
effectiveness. If a statement is an opinion, an assumption or a guess, make this clear. Provide balanced and
honest information, rather than spin; do not censor inconvenient evidence.

Usually, in Australia, if a company makes unsubstantiated claims about a product, it can be fined large sums for
misleading and deceptive conduct by the ACCC. However, the Government and the media have been free to say
or do whatever they like during the pandemic, without regulatory oversight or consequence.

In relation to Covid-19 vaccines, it should be noted that the pharmaceutical companies never made a general
claim of “safe and effective” about their products; they just submitted the test results, signed a contract and let the
Government & media make this claim on their behalf. The TGAalso does not claim that the Covid-19 vaccines
are safe or effective, they simply review and publish the data and decide whether or not to approve.

The broadcast, public messaging of “safe and effective” and “the benefits outweigh the risks” (frequently
repeated, verbally, by the states and the media), is misleading and deceotiv^s it does not detail the possible
side-effects or the different risk profile for every age and individual.^^^^^^|statement of a “pandemic of the
unvaccinated” (copied from the US public messaging), was also misleading and he would have known this was
inaccurate from global statistics (for example, https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/covid-19-vaccine-
surveillance-report).

The Department of Health is aware of this - published online advertising and statements are much more carefully
worded. However, the media, the Chief Medical Officer and State Premiers were allowed to make a variety of
subjective and assumptive statements in their public speeches.

Example:
“Dr^^^^explained Covid acts as a very short term booster but would not be officially considered a replacement for
the shot.

'When you've had Covid, it does act like a booster, so you can delay [your shot] or wait for a period afterwards,' she
said.

'It's reasonable to say four to six weeks after infection, get the booster.' “

https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10377509/Dr-Kerry-Chant-explains-BANNED-singing-dancing-
hospitality-venues-NSW.html

The end result has been a loss of public trust in public messaging. With the ever-changing advice, unsupported
statements, assumptions and (from the states, a certain amount of discrimination and verbal abuse), many
people turned off their television in 2021 and switched to YouTube and Rumble. I would also recommend (to the
ACMA), that censoring online media is not the best answer to rebuilding trust in public messaging; more
balanced, honest and accurate public messaging is.



    3.        Foreign and corporate influence on Australia's health response and the TGA.

Recommendation: independent analysis of foreign and corporate influence on the Department of Health and the
TGA. How is Australia’s response guided by overseas nations and NGOs? How are the TGA’s approvals
impacted by the ICMRA and funding from pharmaceutical corporations?

' would like to ask the Inquiry to examine the influence and impact of international Governments, agencies, NGOs
and private corporations on Australia's health response and product approvals:

For example, the TGA receives much of its regulatory funding from the pharmaceutical companies that it
regulates https://www.tqa.qov.au/sites/default/files/tqa-business-plan-2021-22.pdf

It has also been working together with the |
slice March 2020 in relation to the Covid-19 vaccines and therapeutic products. All the member regulators of the
      | agreed to adopt the same messaging and approvals with regard to the pharmaceutical products released.
Please see:
https://www.icmra.info/drupal/sites/default/files/2022-10/covid-19_wg_summary_of_achievements.pdf

This is of interest because each country has different approval paths, with different safety requirements but the
messaging and approval outcomes were similar.

Members of overseas agencies (such as the FDA and the WHO), can be subject to conflicts of interest and
pharmaceutical company lobbying which can then influence the ICMRA and the other member regulators.
International cooperation is needed but there may be a point where cooperation becomes collusion or cartel-like
behaviour.

There is a huge opportunity for pharmaceutical companies and investors to expand their markets and profits
during pandemics; Australia needs to be sure that it is investing tax-payer funds wisely and for the benefit of
Australians.

(FYI Interesting article from 2019 - how consultants shape global health (2019). Vox.com
https://www.vox.com/science-and-heaith/2019/12/13/21004456/bill-qates-mckinsey-qlobal-public-health-bcg))




Thank you for your consideration.

Best Regards
