                                             TASMANIA

                                     PREMIER OF TASMANIA




                                                                         21 December 2023




Ms Robyn Kruk AO
Chair, COVID-19 Response Inquiry
COVID-19lnquiiT/Tasl<force@pmc.gov.au


Dear Ms Kruk,

The Tasmanian Government welcomes the opportunity to provide a submission to the
Independent Panel conducting the COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
Our short submission is attached for the Independent Panel’s consideration. This submission
has been guided by the Terms of Reference provided by the Panel and sets out what worked
well, challenges and suggestions for improvement in the following two areas: governance
through National Cabinet and roles and responsibilities. If required, further information on any
of the points raised in the submission can be provided by my Department.
Thank you again for the opportunity to provide a submission. The Tasmanian Government
looks forward to further engagement with this Inquiry as it progresses.

Yours sincerely




Premier
      Tasmanian Government submission
       COVID-19 Response Inquiry
       December 2023




                                    Tasmanian
Department of Premier and Cabinet   Government
The Tasmanian Government welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the
independent COVID-19 Response Inquiry. We recognise the value in identifying lessons
learned from the COVID-19 response to ensure Australia is in the best possible position in
the event of future pandemics or other emergencies.

This submission considers both health and non-health responses to the COVID-19
pandemic. Reflecting on the intersections of the Tasmanian Government’s role with that of
the Commonwealth, this submission covers two key areas: governance through National
Cabinet and roles and responsibilities of the Commonwealth, state and territory
governments. This submission includes suggestions for improvements in both areas.



Introduction
Tasmania’s experience of COVID-19 was different to that of other Australian jurisdictions.
Following an outbreak in the State’s North-West in April 2020, the Tasmanian Government
deployed a range of border controls, public health and social measures (PHSM), testing,
tracing, isolation and quarantine (TTIQ) measures and, as vaccines became available,
vaccination. Together, the measures helped to minimise the entry of COVID-19 cases to
Tasmania, minimise COVID-19 transmission in Tasmania and ensure continuity of health and
other service delivery.

From June 2020 to mid-December 2021, there was no community transmission of COVID-
19 in Tasmania - a near unique experience worldwide. Substantial control strategies were
maintained until the population was sufficiently vaccinated. Following the cessation of border
controls and quarantine requirements for travellers in mid-December 2021, community
transmission of COVID-19 quickly occurred. PHSM, TTIQ and vaccination requirements
were progressively modified as the State moved towards managing COVID-19 like other
common respiratory pathogens.



Governance through National Cabinet
Given the whole-of-government implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, establishing
National Cabinet as the key decision-making body guiding Australia’s response was
appropriate. Many aspects of governance through National Cabinet were highly effective,
however states and territories did experience some challenges with the system and there
are improvements which could be made.

What worked well
National Cabinet responded well to the COVID-19 pandemic by supporting:

   •   A streamlined operating model that facilitated a command-and-control response to
       COVID-19 through direct discussion, debate and cooperation between First
       Ministers. This was in direct contrast to the complex and slow bureaucratic
       processes that characterised the former Council of Australian Governments
       (COAG).



Page 2 of 8
Tasmanian Government submission - COVID-19 Response Inquiry
   •   Opportunities for First Ministers to receive direct advice from experts such as the
       Australian Health Principal Protection Committee and the Productivity Commission.
       This enabled them to make informed decisions quickly without advice being filtered
       through government departments and other bodies.

   •   Principles-based, consensus decision-making which allowed states and territories to
       tailor implementation of agreed plans such as the National Plan to Transition
       Australia’s COVID-19 Response to account for local risk considerations.

Challenges
Challenges experienced with the National Cabinet system included:

   •   In the initial phases of the pandemic, due to the frequency of National Cabinet
       meetings, the receipt of agendas and papers close to meeting times was
       understandable. However, as the frequency of meetings reduced, there was not a
       proportionate change to when agendas and papers were received. This meant there
       was not much time for states and territories to consider the papers and prepare
       advice.

   •   Early in the COVID response, National Cabinet was rightfully focused on issues that
       impacted the nation and the agenda was set by the Commonwealth. As the pandemic
       progressed, there was a need for the issues and decision to reflect the diversity of
       challenges and circumstances being faced across the nation. This is challenging to
       achieve through the National Cabinet process.

   •   National Cabinet decisions were sometimes difficult for states and territories to
       implement due to jurisdictional differences. For example, the decision that all states
       and territories would accept repatriation flights was challenging for Tasmania given
       the State’s limited customs and border control presence. Planning for the one flight
       Tasmania did accept was time-consuming and resource intensive.

   •   Initially the classification of all National Cabinet papers at ‘Secret’ level created
       challenges for sharing the information with State Servants who did not have the
       required security clearance to access them. A review of the appropriate security
       classification for papers before release would have facilitated easier information
       sharing.

   •   Communication between National Cabinet and Ministerial Fora was often challenging
       given the rapid rate of change and fast turn-around of decisions. Further
       consideration needs to be given to supporting communication between National
       Cabinet and relevant Ministers and senior officials tasked with implementing
       decisions.

Suggestions for improvement
Simple changes to National Cabinet processes and conventions would ensure National
Cabinet is well-placed to drive outcomes for all Australians and respond in the event of a
future pandemic. Some suggestions are:

   •   Clearly establishing agreed policy and principles ahead of a future pandemic or other
       emergency outlining National Cabinet’s role and how this changes across different


Page 3 of 8
Tasmanian Government submission - COVID-19 Response Inquiry
       phases of the event. This may be akin to state and territory emergency management
       arrangements which establish clear roles for the different bodies and individuals
       involved in emergency management. The policy and principles should include a clear
       articulation of:

           o   Pathways for expert advice to National Cabinet and how this differs from
               arrangements outside of an emergency; and

           o   Clear processes for the circulation of expert advice to support robust
               decision-making.

                   •      It is likely that meetings would need to occur at short notice and with
                          last minute papers early in an event, before then reverting to a more
                          regular schedule with papers distributed in time for policy
                          consideration and stakeholder consultation by state and territory
                          governments.

   •   An accepted process for setting the agenda and lead agenda items for National
       Cabinet meetings, including process for ensuring that discussions reflect the diversity
       of circumstances being faced across jurisdictions.

           o   National Cabinet should continue the recent recognition of CAP as an
               effective forum for states and territories to raise issues and bring items to the
               attention of National Cabinet.

   •       Ensuring National Cabinet papers are released at the appropriate classification level.

   •   A clear, transparently documented process to support the appropriate and timely
       flow of National Cabinet information to relevant Ministers and senior officials to
       enable them to consider all relevant information and advice and make decisions
       accordingly.

           o   Ina pandemic scenario, appropriate and timely flow of information to Health
               Ministers and Chief Executives is particularly important.



Roles and responsibilities
As the COVID-19 pandemic evolved, it revealed several sectors where the roles and
responsibilities of the Commonwealth, state and territory governments were not clearly
defined. There were some examples of the Commonwealth, states and territories
successfully navigating this ambiguity, but in a few cases it led to issues. In some scenarios,
these issues could have been mitigated by the Commonwealth playing a more active role; in
others, allowing states and territories to lead may have resulted in better outcomes.

What worked well
   •   In many sectors where Commonwealth and state and territory government
       responsibilities intersected, the Commonwealth Government established working
       groups which facilitated information sharing and allowed states and territories to
       learn from each other’s experiences. For example, Tasmania benefited from attending



Page 4 of 8
Tasmanian Government submission - COVID-19 Response Inquiry
       meetings of education officials as we prepared for the return to school in February
       2022 following the opening of the State’s borders on 15 December 2021.

   •   Where there were Commonwealth Government delivery issues, the Tasmanian
       Government was often able to step up. This included the supply of PRE and
       facilitation of vaccination services for staff at Residential Aged Care Facilities, which
       helped to avoid delays in delivering critical vaccinations..

   •   The ability for the Tasmanian Government to enlist the help of the Australian
       Defence Force in areas of identified State need such as quarantine program assistance
       and management of the North-West COVID-19 outbreak was greatly beneficial.

Challenges
Areas where states and territories could have led
   •   In the unprecedented pandemic conditions, the Commonwealth Government may at
       times have acted in areas where allowing states and territories to lead could have
       resulted in better outcomes.

   •   For example, the Commonwealth Government managed the supply, distribution and
       oversight of the COVID-19 vaccine program, while vaccination is usually a state and
       territory responsibility. Issues with this approach included:

           o   The Commonwealth Government’s ability to secure early and sufficient
               supply of vaccines.

           o   Communication with states and territories about expected vaccine supply,
               especially during the early stages of the rollout, could have been clearer.

           o   Inconsistencies in implementation of Australian Technical Advisory Group on
               Immunisation (ATAGI) eligibility advice and associated public communications
               between from state and territory governments and the Commonwealth on
               eligibility criteria for vaccines. This was a result of the complexity of ATAGI’s
               early specifications of priority groups for vaccination, which required the
               Tasmanian Government to undertake significant work to further define
               eligibility criteria and identify the population groups to enable implementation,
               in circumstances of limited supply.

           o   The timing of Commonwealth Government advice on ATAGI deliberations
               and decision points, particularly regarding the risks associated with the
               AstraZeneca vaccine and the importance of boosters, did not always create
               opportunities to coordinate public messaging. It is possible this contributed to
               vaccine hesitancy.

           o   There was not always recognition of, and planning for, jurisdictional
               differences which would impact the vaccine roll-out. For example, Tasmania’s
               dispersed population significantly impacted the ability of the primary care
               sector to lead the vaccine roll-out. Ultimately, this meant the State
               Government delivered most of the State’s vaccine roll-out in 2021.




Page 5 of 8
Tasmanian Government submission - COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Areas for greater Commonwealth action
   •   There were several areas where the Commonwealth could have played a more
       active role.

   •   For example, in aged care, the Tasmanian Government provided critical supplies of
       personal protective equipment (PRE), infection prevention and control training and
       coordination of in-reach vaccination services for aged care facility staff and residents.
       The absence of a Department of Health and Aged Care (DHAC) office in Tasmania,
       together with a lack of pre-positioned National Medical Stockpile stocks, contributed
       to this situation.

   •   Advice to foreign workers and international students to return home did not account
       for the personal circumstances, financial barriers and/or the collapse of global air
       travel which prohibited many from doing so. As foreign workers and international
       students in Australia could not access economic support measures such as JobKeeper
       and JobSeeker, many were left with limited income or support. The Tasmanian
       Government did provide support to these groups, providing emergency assistance
       grants; emergency relief services through partner organisations; assistance to return
       to their country of citizenship; and employer assistance payments.

   •   The Commonwealth Government could have played a stronger coordination role in
       some sectors to help avoid inconsistencies across jurisdictions. For example:

          •   the issue of quarantine for repatriated travellers and seasonal workers could
              have been coordinated by the Commonwealth Government. In Tasmania, this
              was managed via a bilateral agreement with Victoria. Under this agreement,
              Victoria received Tasmania’s share of repatriated travellers in return for
              Tasmania receiving and quarantining seasonal workers destined for Victoria.
              Customs and border control requirements for seasonal workers were met at
              the first point of entry in other states before the workers travelled on to
              Tasmania.

          •   the procurement of PRE. The Commonwealth could have played a stronger
              coordination role in relation to PRE supply chain risks and issues, as the
              managers of the National Medical Stockpile and state and territory stockpiles
              all faced the same challenges. Without this coordination, each jurisdiction had
              to manage these risks and issues to secure its own supply.

   •   Finally, the Commonwealth could have played a stronger role in coordinating efforts
       to define essential workers. Without coordination, each state and territory
       developed its own definition which created challenges for workers moving between
       jurisdictions. The Commonwealth did try to step in to harmonise the definition but it
       was too late in the piece for this to be effective.

Suggestions for improvement
   •   It would be beneficial for the Commonwealth, states and territories to agree on clear
       roles and responsibilities in key areas before another pandemic or crisis. This would
       avoid some of the issues which resulted from ambiguity around roles and
       responsibilities during the COVID-19 pandemic.


Page 6 of 8
Tasmanian Government submission - COVID-19 Response Inquiry
   •   Areas of state and territory expertise and responsibility should be recognised to
       ensure the best possible outcomes for all Australians.

   •   While there were many areas where states and territories needed the policy space
       to act unilaterally, there were many others where the Commonwealth could have
       stepped into a coordination role sooner and this would have minimised unnecessary
       inconsistency across jurisdictions.



Conclusion
The Tasmanian Government is grateful for the opportunity to make a submission to the
COVID-19 Response Inquiry. We believe there are a range of lessons which can be learnt
from the COVID-19 pandemic response and improvements which could be made in the
event of future pandemics or other emergencies requiring coordinated national responses.
The Tasmanian Government encourages the Independent Panel to consider the suggestions
made in this submission and welcomes further engagement with the Inquiry as it progresses.




Page 7 of 8
Tasmanian Government submission - COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Tasmanian
Government

Department of Premier and Cabinet
www.dpac.tas.gov.au
