Submission to the covid-19 response inquiry

Australia's response to covid was a disgrace in multiple respects: lockdowns, face masks, and jabs.
Although the fascistic response was primarily attributable to state governments, the federal
government was also culpable in its explicit acquiescence t state-level health^^^Hand its
failure t( uphold the freedoms of Australian citizens.

It should be first noted that everybody always had the individual option of locking themselves down,
slapping on as many face-rags as they wanted, and jabbing themselves with as many experimental
medicines as their doctors were willing to give. It was only the selfish and self-righteous that
demanded this gullible and ignorant response be mandated for everyone.

It is now the responsibility of the federal government to seek justice against the politicians and
health bureaucrats that imposed the destructive policies of covid fascism, and to seek recompense
from the pharmaceutical companies that delivered ineffective and unsafe products under false
pretences.

Lockdowns

During the early spread of covid it became quickly evident that the disease was not a serious threat
for the vast, vast majority of people. Conversely, extended lockdowns quite obviously imposed
mental trauma on millions of Australians, especially children and young people. Lack of exercise and
sunshine was additionally detrimental to the physical health of many. The extended imprisonment of
people in their own homes was dystopic stupidity. Those that were responsible for this must be
punished to deter a repeat of such recklessness.

Face masks

The pro-mask propaganda and mandates ignored the real harm face masks pose if worn for extended
periods.

    •   Masks worn for an extended period become filthy with microbes festering in the dark, warm,
        moist conditions (Bacterial and fungal isolation from face masks under the COVID-19
        pandemic | Scientific Reports (nature.com)). Accordingly, there is potential for face masks to
        increase the risk of covid infection (HYG 2300182 1..5 (Cambridge.or^ ).
    •   Masks worn for an extended period cause elevated CO2 levels in the blood and thereby the
        potential for cognitive impairment (Inhaled CO2 concentration while wearing face masks: a
        pilot study using capnography | medRxiv). Driving with a face mask poses a cognitive
        impairment risk to drivers, which endangers drivers, their passengers, and other road users.
        In this regard, consider the utter stupidity of mandating masks for bus drivers.
    •   Especially egregious was the masking of children at school. At a young age, unimpeded visual
        and verbal communication is vital to healthy cognitive development. Those that mandated
        masks for school children are vile individuals.

The risks efface masks are suffered with no appreciable offsetting benefit. It is well established that
there is no evidence of any real-world, practical benefit from face masks (Physical interventions to
interrupt or reduce the spread of respiratory viruses - Jefferson, T - 2023 | Cochrane Library;
Universal Masking in Hospitals in the Covid-19 Era | NEJM; .         lask mandatesfo COVID2I9
systematic review | Archives of Disease in Childhood (bmj.com)). Those that were responsible for
this must be punished to deter a repeat of such recklessness.
Jabs

Imagine the sense of trying to jab everyone, including children and pregnant women, multiple times
with an experimental medicine concocted in record time by pharmaceutical companies with a long
track record of corrupt practice, for a disease that is not serious for the vast majority of people, when
the jab does not stop the spread of the disease, and there has never before been a successful
vaccine for previous mutable respiratory diseases such as SARS1, MERS, swine flu, bird flu or the
common cold. To anyone with any sense, it was fantasy to expect the various jabs to be effective, and
a gamble to hope they would be safe (the 5, 10, 20-year consequences are still an unknown gamble
that will never be honestly addressed by the culpable Australian health system). Truly, anyone that
condoned or promoted this response

As an indication of the banal evil of the jab mandates, consider that 16-year-old children were barred
from movie theatres, zoos, museums, school dances, part-time jobs, social sports and gyms unless
they took an experimental jab that offered them zero or miniscule benefit and the real risk of an
adverse reaction (West Australian government finally releases 2021 vaccine safety data: vaccines
have been pulled from the market for far less than this (rebekahbarnett.com.au); The importance of
active surveillance, and other insights from the Hermit Kingdom's 2022 vaccine safety data
(rebekahbarnett.com.au)). The utter failure of the jab program is evidenced by Australia's
persistently high excess death rate from spring 2021 to early 2023.

As would be expected for rushed mass production of novel/experimental medicines by historically
corrupt companies with blanket legal protection, the covid jabs have been found to be contaminated
(Contamination in mRNA Shots 'Serious Regulatory Oversight' (rebekahbarnett.com.au)) and faulty
(Covid Vaccines Produce Random Junk Proteins Thanks to an "Invention" Which Coincidental^ Won
the Nobel Prize (igor-chudov.com)). It is the responsibility of the federal government to seek
recompense from the pharmaceutical companies that supplied ineffective and unsafe products
under false pretences. Those that were responsible for this must be punished to deter a repeat of
such recklessness.
