Term of Reference: Key health response measures

Submission by John Michael Linacre, Ph.D. (Statistical Psychometrics, University of Chicago)

I am a professional statistician with 40 years experience who has consulted for a pharmaceutical
company and who is familiar with clinical and epidemiological studies published in Journals and
disseminated in other ways. Accordingly, it was obvious when the the Australian Government COVID-19
vaccination program began on 22 February 2021 that the evidence presented for the effectiveness of
the vaccinations for the amelioration of COVID-19 and the diminution of its transmission was severely
defective. Nevertheless Australian Federal and State Governments embarked on a Draconian program
of vaccination accompanied by an onslaught of public misinformation about the disease and the
vaccines which the compliant Australian media supported and promulgated.

For myself, a simple health-based cost-benefit analysis of my situation clearly indicated that, though I
was in an identified high-risk demographic group (age 70+), the clear risks associated with vaccination
(risks hidden from the non-technical masses) far outweighed the dubious benefits of vaccination for me
and my social contacts.

The World Health Organization now admits what independent statisticians knew from the beginning:




W.H.O. goes on to say




My major personal concern was and is the coercion of medical professionals. If a medical professional
was as aware of the professional literature as I was, that professional would have preferred not to be
vaccinated. Some professionals of my acquaintance chose not to be vaccinated and instead retired or
moved into another type of practice where ability to prescribe government-funded prescriptions (or
similar restrictions) do not apply. My own general practitioner was in this category. Independently of
me he came to a similar conclusion about COVID-19 and its vaccines. He was forced to leave his practice
and join an alternative health center when he stood by his convictions.

The Hippocratic oath includes "I will follow that system of regimen which, according to my ability and
judgment, I consider for the benefit of my patients, and abstain from whatever is deleterious and
mischievous." Unfortunately medical evidence indicates the vaccines are deleterious and current legal
activities indicate that the pharmaceutical companies were mischievous -
https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/news/releases/attorney-general-ken-paxton-sues-pfizer-
misrepresenting-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy-and-conspiring
