December 15, 2023

To the Panel of the Commonwealth Government’s response to the COVID-19
pandemic,

The entire scope of this inquiry is based on two assumptions which have never been proven.
Namely, that the Sars-CoV-2 pandemic was naturally occurring and not lab created and that
the COVID mRNA "vaccine" was safe and beneficial for the human population.

It is my opinion that the Australian population deserves an independent Royal Commission
to fully investigate the origins of the virus and the safety and efficacy of the synthetic mRNA
platform, including the manufacturing process.

AS a Research Scientist who worked in a virology lab for a number of years with both single
stranded and double stranded RNA viruses, the data I have seen warrants such an
investigation.

Data showing the toxicity and lethality of the vaccines started within weeks of the roll-out
with adverse events and deaths reported, far exceeding previous stopping points of any new
medical product or vaccine and as yet has been ignored. Life insurance industry data then
emerged in the US showing historically unprecedented rises in death claims being paid out
amongst the healthiest sectors of society temporally associated with the proliferation of
Covid mRNA vaccine mandates within schools, corporations, universities, health care
institutions, federal contractors etc. Most telling of the deathly impact of mandates was the
fact that the largest increases among the sudden, rapid rises in excess deaths occurred
among employed white collar workers.

Even more worrying are the recent reports showing universal contamination of every
studied vaccine vial with up to 30% DNA fragments and DNA plasmids. Followed by the
discovery that DNA plasmids contain genetic sequences that promote integration into the
human genome as well as promote the development of cancer. Consideration of the risks
of the “shedding” of these mRNA gene therapy products from the vaccinated to the
unvaccinated should also be taken into account with implications for nearly every
human being walking the earth, vaccinated or unvaccinated.

Statistical data also confirms the lethality of the mRNA products with one analysis by
Canadian^^^^^^^^H demonstrating in detail excess deaths from 1900 to
current and again showing the marked increase in deaths following the rollout of
these “vaccines” after each dose.

There are many other areas such as frameshifting, the production of IG4 etc that
also warrant investigation.

It is clear that government regularity bodies failed to properly vet these new treatments
and that in the future there must be accountability for those who have been responsible for
these failures including pharmaceutical executives, medical professionals, members of
government departments, politicians, bureaucrats, members of the media and others who
have contributed to the deaths and diseases caused by these unsafe, unproven toxic gene
therapy drugs. The consequences of this pandemic have been far-reaching and will be felt
for years to come. Families have lost loved ones, businesses have closed down, and entire
industries have been decimated. It is imperative that we understand how this happened and
what can be done to prevent it from happening again. This is why I believe this inquiry is too
narrow in its scope and terms of reference and there should be a Royal Commission instead.

Regards,

Patricia Abbott
B App Sc, M App Fin, MEnv
