Where is the transparency in our government? The total number of excess deaths in Australia
attributed to the Covid-19 (novel) vaccines needs to be determined and the chilling results
released to the public. If this data is not revealed to the Australian people, we cannot put our trust
in our Government going forward.

This is a HUMAN RIGHTS issue and we, the people of Australia have had our human rights infringed
upon en-masse by the coercion and dictacts of the Morrison and Albanese Australian Governments
since 2020 to this day.



Covid-19 health alternatives taken off the pharmacy shelves by the Government.

It has now been realized that affordable non-prescriptive Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine drugs
could have been used effectively to assist the symptoms of the Covid-19 virus. Our Government is
responsible for having these effective drugs taken off the pharmacy shelves so that people could not
acquire health alternatives to the vaccine being mandated by the leaders and officials of this country.



Misinformation Campaign

Initially, the Scott Morrison Government issued false-facts about the Covid-19 virus and then
mandated a 'pandemic response' which was disastrous to the Australian people on so many levels, it
was destructive to our economy, to our social norms and structure. The now Albonese Government
continues to spread misinformation about the so-called vaccine as it continues to offer and
encourage Australians to accept more boosters. Even to this day, vaccine mandates are still in place
in the workforce for some employees. This is outrageous given that the lies about the vaccines safety
and efficacy are now there no for all in our country to see.

Those elected Governmental officials, as well as the unelected Health Officials, Public Servants and
Ministerial Advisors should be investigated for their involvement in the misinformation campaign
released on the Australian public, which led to the creation of fear and compliance of their dictates.
The data about excess deaths relating to the Covid-19 vaccine should be analyzed, correlated, and
conclusions released to the public in a timely way. In addition, those officials who were involved in
coercing the public to have the shot with their mistruths and falsities should be held personally to
account for their respective decision and the deaths and violations of human rights that ensued
therein.
