The government must do a PROPER investigation into everything Covid
from 2020 until now, and the only way is a full ROYAL COMMISSION.

The PM Anthony Albanese promised he would conduct a Royal
Commission, and he is not sticking to his promise. This is shameful.


These areas MUST be investigated:

■ police brutality on people’s right to protest the draconian measures of
lockdowns, mandates etc
■ early covid medical treatments that were not allowed (ivermectin,
hydroxychloroquine etc) and shown to be very effective backed by
scientific studies. These medications treated people effectively in many
other countries
■ why weren’t doctors allowed to practice medicine freely?
■ terrible treatment of covid patients in hospitals, especially the
unvaccinated patients
■ hospital protocols that harmed patients (like remdesivir and ventilators)
■ the isolation of hospital patients from their families
■ the isolation of nursing home patients from their families
■ why didn’t the government advise the people ways to stay healthy and
boost their immune systems to help overcome covid?
■ why isn’t natural immunity to covid recognised?
■ why aren’t PCR and RAT tests discredited when they are not accurate?
■ the hotel quarantine insanity
■ the closing of state borders
■ corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts
■ lock downs, and especially the harsher lockdowns of certain council
areas - very discriminatory!
■ mask mandates - masks shown to be ineffective, confirmed by study
from the Cochrane Collaboration in the UK
■ ATAGI and TGA incompetence and/or corruption in analysing the
vaccines, they didn’t do their job properly
■ the role of ATAGI and AHPRA in censorship and oppression of doctors
and other medical and allied health staff
■ the psychological impact of government draconian measures on people
of Australia, especially the young
■ the high rates of suicide as a result of draconian measures
■ investigation into high number of sudden deaths? Why the increased
yearly mortality numbers? Why the silence?
■ why weren’t autopsies done on all sudden deaths? Why are they still
not being done?
■ why aren’t vaccines considered to be a valid reason for the cause of
sudden deaths in young people? Fact - mortality jumped only when
vaccines were introduced
■ why was AHPRA cancelling doctors for speaking the truth?
■ why were Australian people not given proper informed consent???
■ why were people forced to get the vaccine to retain their jobs?
■ why were the human rights and freedoms of the Aussie people
trampled on?
■ ALL previous state premiers to be investigated who enforced draconian
covid measures upon their state
■ previous PM Scott Morrison to be investigated, and the national cabinet
investigated
■ Brad Hazard to be investigated as well as Kerry Chant.
■ vaccine mandates for employment (still in affect!). Vaccine mandates
for the workforce DISCRIMINATE!
■ official misinformation and censorship of valid, qualified professionals
worldwide
■ lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission
■ media censorship of valid doctors/scientists warning of dangers of
vaccines
■ investigation into huge amounts of vaccine injuries and vaccine deaths
■ silencing of doctors, nurses, scientists warning against rushed, new
vaccines
■ vaccine injured compensation scheme - not enough!
■ the poor treatment and gaslighting of vaccine injured people, these
poor people need to be helped and heard
■ investigation into the throwing away of billions of dollars for people to
stay home in lockdowns. This is causing the current inflation
■ why were the businesses like McDonalds, KFC, liquor shops and
brothels allowed to stay open when everything else was not?
■ small business destruction due to covid draconian measures

Please do a proper ROYAL COMMISSION into the Covid-19 period in
Australia.
