                                             COVID 19 inquiry



I'm a 65 year old practicing Chiropractor in Queensland. I have served on a number of bodies and acted
as a board member on the QLD registration board before federal registration. In roughly 2004 the term
Guidelines started to come into health acts and the then Chairman of the medical Board who I won't
name stated that Guildlines is going to be the greatest curse to health professional in years to come. The
trouble with guidelines is that departments then interpret them as laws and use them to bash and bully
professional that deviate from the Guidelines.

Governance

Directives/Guidelines from state health departments and federal departments need to be based on
evidence, that evidence needs to be published and the majority decision delivered to the public. The
piecemeal delivery of advice from differing departments and state governments was an embarrassment.
Health professionals have to regain the right to freedom of speech to comment.

Mandated health directives needs to be illegal and it should never have happened and never should
again.

COVID 19 vaccine were without any testing, labelled by government Health departments as 'safe and
effective'. This is without any evidence to support this statement. In health care 'Evidence based Health
Care' is a major tenet. Our Health departments and paid director generals ignored this tenet. Qld then
director general of health disagreed with one policy and was shouted down for dissenting.

The WHO and the American CDC are largely funded by the pharmaceutical industry and thus have a
vested interest in selling Vaccines. It appears our own health departments leant heavily on the advice
that was coming from these bodies. This needs to stop. They produced a plethora of inaccurate
statements that were contradictory and often against the known evidence. Distractors were torn down
or attacked by our own Government departments. Legitimate comment on Facebook often ended up
with a ban by faceless fact checker with no reason given. I posted a research paper from the UK and
Facebook took it down saying that the Fact Checkers did not agree.

All restriction from AHPRA restricting health professionals from providing health advice to their patient
on Vaccines and/or any subject or being forced to follow health departments directives needs were to be
removed.

Despite evidence showing a large increase in pericarditis, Cardiologist were forbidden from giving an
exemption as were all other health care providers.

I personally had 2 patients that previously had vaccine induced Gillian Barre syndrome, refused a medical
exemption because their respective GP were not game to provide them with one because of the
aggression of AHPRA and the guidelines on giving exemptions.

Advertising by drug companies stating relative effectiveness instead of their real effectiveness of
Vaccines should be made illegal. It is common practice to quote relative instead of real results so that the
consumer believes they are getting a great product.

With just common sense the mass COVID 19 vaccinations caused more risk than benefit.
The claim that the COVID Vaccines saved millions of lives, does not survive the evidence. One example,
the country with the highest vaccination rate, Israel had the highest infection rate of COVID. Second
example, In Australia 'all cause mortality' increased on average 17% in all states. SA had the same
increase with virtually zero cases of COVID recorded. The evidence, in hindsight suggests the vaccine
may be worse than COVID.

It is important not to lay blame, but vital to make sure the laws that allowed this to happen are removed
from our health acts and agreements on Pandemic responses with external unelected bodies such as the
WHO are torn up and removed. It would be nice to have the Federal and State governments, agree never
to remove basic human rights and force mandated vaccines or drug therapy ever again. This I believe
would allow all of us to put this COVID 19 disaster behind us. Then we can all breathe a sigh of relief and
Australia will be a safer saner place.
