The purpose of the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) is to
identify lessons learned to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.


There was no evidence of a pandemic. The whole exercise was to create fear and provide a
solution , but the solution is an experimental drug that many were coerced to take without informed
consent. Doctors and nurses and health professionals were silenced otherwise they would be
disciplined.
Personally I have known over 30 people having adverse reactions to the experimental drugs, some
of my friends died after the injection, many people have lost their loved ones since mass
vaccination had begun.
Flu has disappeared because everything was labelled covid.
PCR test should never be used for diagnostic purposes, many were tested positives when there was
no symptoms. Suddenly asymptomatic carriers are a thread to society. This is unheard of in the
medical field.
Somehow one has to take an ‘vaccine’ to protect others when it has never been tested for stopping
transmission.
Doctors, hospitals are incentivised for obtaining positive tests, for diagnosing covid, for vaccinating
people, for putting people on ventilator, in other words, the covid numbers have been exaggerated
many times over.
The whole system have been compromised because we take directions from WHO and WHO is
controlled by pharmacy                            World Bank etc.

The documents attached includes Pfizers trial results, please see lists of side effects over 1200
conditions. Many others are not listed. There are more reactions from mRNA co vid vaccine than all
adverse reactions added up by all others vaccines in history and mRNA vaccine has only been
around for less than 3 years.

This is an intention to have profits over lives and to reduce population.
Barry Young has recently blew the whistle but was deemed misinformation.
https://vigilantfox.substack.eom/p/nz-whistleblower-arrested-for-exposing

Please see attached The Time of COVID- A Report by Phillip M. Altman, BPharm(Hons), MSc,
PhD, Clinical Trial & Pharmaceutical Regulatory Affairs Consultant
This is comprehensive report stating the failure of the vaccine.

Specialists have been seeing many times increased in cardiac problems, neurological problems,
fertility problems etc, all are due to the failed experimental drugs.

There is only one way to be healthy, stay away from doctors and the medico-pharmaceutical
industrial complex, it’s all about profits, it has nothing to do with health.
