COVID-19 Response Enquiry Submission

I paid keen attention to daily updates during the pandemic. I was pleased to live in NSW where at
least a less draconian and panicked attitude was taken by the government and health officials. It
seemed a measured and sensible approach. While I supported the measures taken by states to
protect us all from catching the disease, like wearing masks when in company, washing hands,
keeping a distance from everyone, I never thought a vaccine would become available because the
time needed to test and approve one would take too long.

Therefore, when vaccines were suddenly available, I was not at all in support of the mass availability
without any testing for effectiveness or side effects. Then the demand that everyone inject the
unproven vaccine into their body was simply horrifying. The tone was threatening, intimidating and
conjured ^^^^^jauthoritarianism. I was prepared to stay out of society to avoid catching the
virus, because I am autoimmune compromised. I've endured a protracted and difficult recovery
from a virus that turned my immune system against myself. I'm reliably informed and educated on
what is sensible, and I protect myself. Why would I want to subject myself to getting infected with
a virus deliberately? My neurologist warned that I should never have a flu vaccine for instance
because for me, it is a known cause of Guillain-Barre Syndrome and I would almost certainly have a
reoccurrence and possibly more debilitating than the first episode. Bluntly, it could kill this time.

Autoimmune condibQn^i^^ei^evei^^n^JghiliiaUng, robbing a person of ability to function, in
my case causing                             also impacting my family who have to look
after me. Medicalexpensesmountj^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H which in turn
cause other problems in your body - the repercussions are significant, adding to the cost on our
health system. In many cases, permanent disability results, be it mild or severe. Knowingly injecting
a vaccine in this situation then would have been and will always be, irresponsible.

My observation is that the health authorities during COVID, while admirably trying to control the
virus spreading, treated anyone who did not want an unproven vaccine injected into their body, as
a criminal. Public feeling was so intense, that I lived in fear of being "found out". With debility, you
are already a target because you aren't "normal".

The health hierarchy and government leaders reacted just short of panicking although I do
appreciate all they did to keep Australians safe. It was also irresponsible, especially for supposedly
medical trained and educated people, to classify every single person in one all encompassing
overview. This reveals incompetence by being unaware of the Australian population's diverse health
issues. Vaccines should never be forcefully injected into people by inciting fear if they don't obey.
Simple common sense needs to apply to the approach of forcing medication on people when they
know it will be to their detriment. Medical science is finding now that auto immune conditions are
much more prevalent today than even 10 years ago. It is an area that requires considered
exploration so that our medical system can cope into the future with increased reliance by
Australians.

Last word. I'm not against vaccinations. Much has been achieved to better our society by finding
vaccines. I am against the regimented demand that all people must have them. If vaccines work,
and I believe they do for many people, then those who have them need not fear the person beside
them who cannot have a vaccine because they will suffer much worse by doing so. Someone who
is auto immune compromised takes precautions to protect themselves every day. They take
responsibility for themselves and keep informed because they care for their own health and safety.
Perhaps there is room in Australia for teaching common basics like personal responsibility for all
aspects of our lives, consideration of others and being motivated to help yourself instead of always
wanting someone else to do the work for us.

If you have not had, or known someone who has had an auto immune condition, it is likely you
won't understand any of what I've just said. Experience is a harsh but effective teacher. There are
also many more responsible citizens who don't scream loudly on social media. They just get on with
living their lives and coping with what it throws at them.
