SUBMISSION FOR THE COVID-19 INQUIRY.

I believe the taskforce needs to open a Royal Commission into the handling of the entire Covid
19 debacle. This is now imperative given the discovered and proven truths about all of it from
the lock- downs to the mandates to the vaccines, to the masks to people losing their jobs.
Therefore I demand that the truth be allowed to be told by a R.C.

The people deserve to know about the vaccine acquisitions and secret contracts with vaccine
manufacturers; and of course the obscene amount of money made by that.

The ludicrous, and sadly ongoing, total misinformation being spread by MSM... from Day
1...scaring populations world-wide into doing what the majority would never have done... from
taking the various vaccines to wearing masks, both of which are now proven to be a health
hazard. Have you actually seen the bacteria created on a mask from wearing one for 30
minutes only? If not perhaps you should investigate.

The disgusting results for a huge percentage of the population of earth from injuries acquired
by the administration of dangerous vaccines. I personally know people who have died, people
who are still injured and of course who will never again lead a healthy life given that
myocarditis is not something that can be fixed, and that is just one side effect. The people
with neurological impacts are in pain every day. Never mind the children and adults who now
have mental health issues, particularly from the lock-downs and the insane isolation rules
especially in Victoria. Someone needs to take responsibility for what has happened to such a
huge percentage of the population of the world and that is individual governments because
you were the ones who forced this entire debacle.

People lost jobs and thus lost their homes because of it and again accountability must be
admitted and recompensed. The numbers of homeless is now catastrophic with families living
in cars.

The silencing of medical staff.... And more importantly silencing of the truth.... Is akin to the
Holocaust of WWII and of course many believe we are now in WWIII with the same ridiculous
rules and the same story that creates doubt and fear in the minds of people who are now
completely brainwashed to think that governments speak the truth. Many doctors lost their
licences and some were jailed for doing just that. How did we get to this place where lies win
over truth?

APHRA should be disbanded for its heavy handedness over these issues. If the people who
have been damaged by this organisation's decisions actually went to court, the cases would
go on for years with their appalling methods of dealing with people who only spoke their
truth.
How is it that people with umpteen degrees and world class reputations for the integrity of
their body of work were suddenly annihialated by MSM? Luckily many are still out there with
now proof that what they said in the first place was accurate information.

A Royal Commission on these issues could take years and my only concern is that the people
heading that commission would be complicit in the misinformation. However since you asked
for public opinion, you now have mine.

Thanking you,
