My name is Xin Yin Ooi, I represent myself as an Australian citizen.

Firstly, I want to say to our Prime Minister, that we need a proper Royal Commission to look into the
Covid response, not just an Inquiry. This topic is too big for an ordinary government inquiry. We need
a Royal Commission with sufficient authority to look into everything that went wrong during the
Covid years.

Next, I would like to share my own views and experience. I think the single biggest stuff up in our
Federal Government's Covid Response, is the brokerage by the then Prime Minister, Scott Morrison,
to effectively coordinate his National Cabinet members to implement the Covid vaccination
mandates throughout the country.

If the Federal Government tries to argue that the vaccination mandates had nothing to do with the
Federal Government, this will be seen as a lie. As most of us can recall, the "safe and effective"
messaging came from the Federal Government. The state governments have relied on the advice
(and advocacy) from the Federal Government to do everything possible to increase vaccination rates,
including by making it hard for the people's living without getting the vaccines.

We can't visit our dying relatives in hospitals without getting the vaccines. We can't work for a living
without getting the vaccines. University students can't get back to face-to-face learning without
getting the vaccines. How wrong was all that, considering the benefit of hindsight that we all have
now?

It is now abundantly clear, that the Covid vaccines are neither safe nor effective. It has not stopped
transmission, it has not stopped hospitalisation and deaths. And it has an uncanny temporal
correlation with the excess deaths that are observed shortly after the nationwide rollout of the Covid
vaccines.

The omnipresent vaccine mandates in the years of 2021 and 2022 had resulted in loss of livelihood
by many people. I personally was affected by the mandate, my job and livelihood were threatened,
only because I was hesitant about receiving a vaccine that was only provisionally approved, had no
long-term safety data, was clearly not preventing transmission, for a disease that I have a very high
chance of surviving (>99%).

The Federal Government has led by example by imposing vaccination mandates on frontline workers,
aged care workers, travellers etc. The state governments were apparently just following suit,
including through the National Cabinet meetings. It is as clear as day that the vaccination mandates
came from the Federal Government, as the trend of mandating did start from there.

So what are the lessons learnt?

We are almost at the end of 2023, yet Covid-19 is still with us. Apparently we are on track to our "8th
wave" of Covid, despite >95% of the population having received at least 2 doses of the Covid
vaccination. The mass vaccination program is the single biggest failure of the Federal Government's
Covid response.

When the next pandemic hits, let's not experiment with something new on the population, shall we?



Xin Yin Ooi

08 December 2023
