                                                      St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                       NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




14 December 2023


Dear COVID-19 Inquiry team,
RE: AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
The St Vincent de Paul Society National Council of Australia (the Society) welcomes the opportunity to
provide this submission to help improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics.
This submission addresses the following areas pertinent to the Society's operations and those we assist,
namely

     •        health response measures
     •        broader health supports
     •        financial support for individuals
     •        support for industry and business, and
     •        community supports.
In summary, the Society recommends

     •        funding of community-based psychosocial services
     •   funding of community-based social services to modify service models and establish processes to
         improve coordination of assistance at the local, community level
     •   funding and resources to support establishment of local partnerships and practices between the
         health sector and community based social services
     •   lifting people out of poverty permanently through increases to working age payments and
         Commonwealth Rent Assistance, to reduce risk to individuals and the community
     •   specific funding to support vulnerable cohorts including people living with disability, people who
         are homeless, lone households, culturally and linguistically diverse groups, and people on
         temporary visas
     •   funding to increase housing options and the delivery of wrap around support (to help people
         transition successfully along the ‘housing pathway')
     •   funding and processes to support improved early coordination between the Australian Government
         and other service sectors (such as the National Coordination Mechanism and the National
         Coordination Group)
     •   that charities be exempt from the $50 million turnover limit for the application of the code of conduct
         for small and medium enterprises commercial leasing principles, and
     •   processes to support early implementation of moratoriums on evictions and disconnections during
         the crisis period (including through the national rental standards), along with implementation of
         rental and utility relief programs to coincide with the lifting of moratoriums.
Background
The Society's assistance mainly takes the form of emergency relief and accommodation. Emergency relief
includes help with food, clothes, transport, health, education and utility costs. Most of this assistance is
provided by our members and volunteers and ordinarily through our face-to-face visitation programs or at
our centres. Accommodation assistance ranges from helping with rent through to providing emergency,
transitional and permanent affordable housing.
The Society prepared a submission to the Parliamentary Inquiry into COVID-19 (Sub. No. 258) and refers
the Department to its recommendations.




St Vincent de Paul Society National Council of Australia Inc.
ABN 50 748 098 845 I ARBN 612 807 995                                                  www.vinnies.org.au
PO Box 243, Deakin West ACT 2600

T 02 6202 1200 | E admin@svdp.org.au
                                                                                  St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                                                 NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




Health Response Measures and Broader Health Supports
The Society previously expressed concern about the narrow approach taken to mental health policy and
funding. There was, and continues to be, a strong reliance on the Primary Health Network, with information
on service provision difficult to access. There is also no funding of community-based psychosocial services,
or recognition of how these services could partner with clinical care to support community development and
resilience activities. Nor are any funds made available to provide a holistic, client-centred and coordinated
approach to service delivery. The Department is referred to the Society's submission (Sub. No. 1216) to
the Productivity Commission on its mental health review.
Financial Support for Individuals
As a significant provider of Commonwealth Emergency Relief (ER), the Society appreciated the additional
funding made available around March 2020 to help meet increased demand. This enabled us to respond
to a sharp increase in demand for ER at the outset of the pandemic, prior to JobKeeper, JobSeeker and
additional one-off Government payments being implemented. The Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment also
helped keep our operations afloat.
Research at the time showed that the Coronavirus supplement was used judiciously by recipients to cover
every-day expenses, with additional payments quickly washing through local economies and benefitting
local businesses and communities.
Filling the Gap - the relationship between the rate of unemployment benefits and charity assistance for
JobSeekers'
In NSW, the Society comprises approximately 4,000 member volunteers who provide food, groceries,
clothing, household items, financial support and friendship to over 400 communities. People receiving
unemployment benefits have been consistently and significantly over-represented because they have no
other way of making ends meet.
In March 2021, the NSW Society assessed the impact of doubling the rate of income support payments
during the pandemic and the number of people seeking charitable assistance.
The doubling of the base rate of income support payments during the pandemic meant that many people
traditionally assisted by the Society were able to cover their basic living costs without regularly seeking
help. During this period, across Australia the Society experienced a significant and sustained reduction in
requests for help. For example, in NSW in the last quarter of 2019-20, the number of people on the
JobSeeker Payment requiring assistance fell by 75 per cent compared to the same quarter in 2018-19. In
September 2020, the Coronavirus supplement was cut by $300/fortnight, reducing it to $250/fortnight. This
was accompanied by a steady increase in the number of people seeking assistance, even though the total
number of people receiving JobSeeker in NSW had begun to decline.
Lifting people out of poverty benefits all of us-A Fairer Tax and Welfare System
It is difficult to implement national coordinated responses to any type of crisis if there are large cohorts of
people who are significantly disadvantaged prior to a new emerging emergency period. In general, these
vulnerable cohorts are difficult to reach and have fewer resources (financially and socially) to call upon.
Subsequently, they are often ‘over-looked’ by systems. Specific, direct policies and funding are required to
ensure they are engaged and receive the assistance they need. Significant inroads could be made to
reducing the number of people living in poverty and/or financial stress by reviewing Australia's tax and
welfare system.
In 2022 and 2023 the Society commissioned the ANU to model three options to reduce the poverty gap by
increasing working age payments and Commonwealth Rent Assistance. The ANU paper and first facts are
accessible on     veb    .
In summary, the options are underpinned by dropping the stage 3 tax cuts, lowering the tax threshold for
capital gains from 50 per cent to 37.5 per cent, restructuring the superannuation tax system, and making
moderate changes to personal income taxation thresholds.




                                                                                                                Page 2 of 7
                                                                                St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                                                NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




The model:

     •        increases the tax-free threshold from $18,200 to $24,000 for modest and high options
     •        lifts between 193,000 and 834,000 people out of poverty
     •        reduces the after-housing poverty gap by between 5.1 per cent and 18.6 per cent
     •        reduces households in poverty from 11.7 per cent to 8.6 per cent
     •        benefits people with incomes in the bottom two quintiles (40 per cent) namely low-income and low
         wealth households, single parents, lone persons, renters and those relying on working age welfare
         payments
     •   increases the superannuation balances for people of lower and middle income and wealth,
         including those expected to be on the age pension in retirement, and
     •   has the greatest impact on areas with high poverty and financial stress rates, including outer
         Western Sydney, suburban Greater Brisbane, and regional Australia, including Daly-Tiwi-West
         Arnhem, Katherine, Arnhem NT and Far North Queensland.
The options increase

     •        JobSeeker by $176 per fortnight (pf), $249 pf or $338 pf
     •        Parenting Payment by $167 pf, $238 pf, or $351 pf
     •        Disability Support Pension and Carer Payments by $69 pf or $249 pf
     •        Family Tax Benefit A by 20 per cent, and
     •   Commonwealth Rent Assistance by 25 per cent (in addition to the 15 per cent increase in the 2023
         Budget).
Locations of high poverty and financial stress rates are also more likely to be adversely impacted by
pandemics, as witnessed in Australia during COVID-19. This is also supported by the evidence base on
the social determinants of health.
Assisting those falling through the cracks
People seeking asylum and those on temporary visas
During the pandemic, the Society was particularly concerned about people seeking asylum and those on
temporary visas. For those with work rights, many were engaged in casual work. Research found that
casual workers lost employment eight times faster than those in permanent jobs. Many were unable to meet
JobSeeker or JobKeeper requirements, had little savings, did not qualify for Medicare and, for a range of
reasons, were unable to return home. While $7.0 million was made available to The Red Cross specifically
to assist this cohort in Australia, it was insufficient to meet demand. Funding the one provider also limited
the service footprint.
In response to future pandemics, the Australian Government should ensure that all people have access to
medical treatment and Medicare, an adequate safety net and suitable accommodation.
People living with disability, living alone or with mental health issues
During the pandemic, the Society conducted therapy sessions and well-being checks to people living with
disability or in lone households (by tele-link or phone) to ensure they had access to essential services,
including food and medicine.
In general, attendance at our centres by people living with disability increased during the pandemic as other
disability providers suspended their services. Additional care was required as people navigated changes to
their routine and information was shared on the different operational environments due to social distancing.
The nature of many disabilities means that set routines provide safety and reassurance. Disruption often
results in increased levels of anxiety and depression, as displayed by many of those we assisted.
Consequently, some people went backwards in their recovery journeys and experienced a range of
symptoms of mental illness not experienced for years.
The Australian Government should ensure that organisations assisting the community are resourced to
help those living with disability. The support provided by the Society was covered by its own resources.




                                                                                                               Page 3 of 7
                                                                                  St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                                                  NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




People who are homeless, sleeping rough or at risk of homelessness
Blueprint model of care to support vaccine hubs for people experiencing homelessness
In NSW, the Society worked in partnership with the NSW Government, City of Sydney, St Vincent's Hospital,
QUT, KRC Health and Neami National to develop a blueprint model of care to support vaccine hubs for
people experiencing homelessness. The purpose was to provide guidance to agencies on vaccination
efforts targeting hard to reach or marginalised people and communities. The process was initiated by a
range of stakeholders who shared resources, such as Accredited Nurse Immunisers, consent forms and a
common approach to messaging.
The Society's Ozanam Learning Centre — a community centre located next to the Matthew Talbot Hostel
Woolloomooloo, which ordinarily provides opportunities for people in the target client group to connect,
learn, participate in activities, and access support — was identified as a suitable location for the hub. As at
mid-Sept 2021,5,000 hard to reach people had been vaccinated. The Blueprint is at Attachment 1.
All levels of governments need to understand that the formal health network alone is not the only way to
engage people, particularly those who are hard to reach. Effective outcomes can be achieved when the
health network partners with a range of locally based community-service providers. Further, health and
community-based service sectors need to be resourced to develop partnerships and implement local
solutions, rather than simply being expected to absorb these costs, particularly during a crisis.
Lifting the moratorium on evictions and utility disconnections
During the pandemic various state and territory governments put in place moratoriums on evictions.
However, the time taken to implement these policies, the duration for which they were in place and the
provision of follow up support varied considerably across the country.
In Western Australia, a Housing Emergency Response Group was established (April 2021) to initiate and
drive immediate solutions to the rental crisis, particularly as a result of lifting of rental moratorium. They
identified the devasting impact of the social affordable housing shortage on many families, with increases
in rent and evictions, family and domestic violence referrals and requests for housing, support and
emergency relief services."
Moratoriums on evictions and provision of rental relief in the form of grants, no interest loans etc are
essential and must be established early. National rental standards are currently being developed and
should include provisions for moratoriums to be implemented during times of crisis (natural disasters,
emergences, pandemics etc).
The Society was also aware that many people had utility bills in arrears and were advised that utility retailers
had a large number of disconnections on their books from when the moratorium ended. These bills were
also likely to be very high due to people being in lockdown during the winter period. Again, moratoriums on
disconnections are essential and must be established early. Utility bill relief after the moratorium has been
lifted is also vital to ensuring the wellbeing of households and individuals.
Lived experiences of community services users and the workers who supported them during the CO VID-19
pandemic in NSW, Australia'''
A research partnership between Australian Catholic University, Jesuit Refugee Service Australia, and the
St Vincent de Paul Society NSW sought to better understand the experience of people who sought
emergency financial assistance from community service organisations during the pandemic, as well as the
experiences of the frontline workers who supported them.
In summary, the research found that governments must take more action to reduce underlying vulnerability
in the community including reducing the number of people without access to adequate income and/or
meaningful employment. People from marginalised backgrounds should also be provided with adequate
opportunities to develop social networks and build social capital. The stigma associated with accessing
services, including income support, must also be addressed.
Co-ordinated provision of services and emergency relief must be improved. Greater investment in the
promotion of services and supports, including in languages other than English, through a wide variety of




                                                                                                                 Page 4 of 7
                                                                                 St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                                                 NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




channels must be made. This includes resourcing community organisations to promote services such as
emergency financial relief.
The vital role community organisations play in responding to needs during crises must be recognised and
they should be resourced accordingly. More resources are also needed to better support frontline workers
and volunteers delivering services to vulnerable people.
Support for Industry and Business
The Society provides the following information on the impact of not-for-profit organisations.
Pre-COVID service levels could not be maintained
The Society was particularly affected by the fact that as many of our members and volunteers are older,
they fell into the high-risk category which meant they were unable to maintain community contact. While
the Society attempted to continue its operations, it was not possible to maintain pre-COVID service levels
across the country. Some types of assistance could not be provided at all, such as group sessions and
individual face to face sessions or providing transport or outreach support services.
Changes to service models
The nature of the pandemic necessitated change to our service model, the costs of which were covered by
the Society. This occurred at a time when available resources were significantly reduced due to decreases
in donations and income normally generated through our Shop Network.
Significant changes included use of centralised phone lines, virtual volunteers and contactless deliveries.
Where possible, assistance was provided electronically, through e-vouchers and electronic payment of bills.
Social distancing also changed the way we prepared, served and delivered food through mobile vans,
drops-offs at homes and other venues, and at various accommodation sites. Processes for cleaning,
laundering and showering at our facilities were all reviewed. During the peak of the pandemic, we also
experienced difficulties with obtaining fresh food and cleaning products.
The Society helped operate vaccination hubs or worked alongside mobile vaccination clinics. In some state
based residential services such as homelessness, disabilities, crisis accommodation and refuges,
vaccination of eligible groups (staff and residents) was encouraged, with operations conducted in
accordance with COVID-19 safe plans as per State Government directives.
While JobKeeper helped with changes to our staffing and volunteer profiles, costs associated with changes
to service models were borne by the Society. For some matters, such as limited access to fresh food and
cleaning products, the issue was a lack of supply.
Mandatory Code of Conduct for Small and Medium Enterprises Commercial Leasing Principles
During the pandemic, the Society called for charities to be exempt from the $50 million turnover limit for the
application of the code of conduct for small and medium enterprises commercial leasing principles.
The Mandatory Code of Conduct for Small and Medium Enterprises Commercial Leasing Principles (the
Code) was an important initiative to support enterprises affected by COVID-19 to continue to provide
invaluable services to local communities. The aim of the Code was to assist enterprises to remain solvent.
However, the $50 million annual turnover threshold meant that organisations such as the Society in NSW
experienced challenges negotiating rent reductions for its (largely non-functioning) shops.
Community Supports
Improved access to telecommunications
The Society was acutely aware that access to most types of assistance presupposed that everybody had,
and was able to use, information and communications technology even though public access points, such
as libraries, were no longer available. Consequently, the allocation of both the Society's and the
Commonwealth's ER assistance often included providing mobile phones, phone credits and internet
access.




                                                                                                                Page 5 of 7
                                                                                St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                                                NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




Improved coordination between Government and non-government agencies
Referral partnerships were established with agencies that people were in contact with, to identify and assist
those in need. Examples included engaging with schools to support high risk children, partnering with
metropolitan local government areas to meet requests for assistance received through their information
lines (in WA) and working with government departments (such as the NSW Department of Communities
and Justice) to provide pop-up support for those being temporarily housed in hotels.
National Coordination Mechanism
The Department of Home Affairs established a National Coordination Mechanism. This included various
Government agencies (such as Emergency Management Australia, Department of Health, Department of
Climate Change, Energy and Environment) and industry representatives from Retail, Groceries and
Consumers, Transport, Energy, Banking and Finance, Telecommunication, Trades and Construction,
Agriculture and the Not-for-Profit Sector. We were not aware of the Mechanism until relatively late in the
pandemic and due to the size of the group, found the process unwieldly. Improved coordination was needed
but better mechanisms must be identified and established early in a pandemic.
National Coordination Group (NCG)
The Society's National Council was a member of the NCG established by former Minister Ruston in April
2020 at the start of the pandemic to provide advice on the implementation of Emergency Relief, Food Relief
and Financial Counselling. This ministerial advisory committee now reports to the Minister for Social
Services, the Hon Amanda Rishworth MP. NCG provided, and continues to provide, on the ground advice
directly to the Minister on emerging areas of need and demand. It has been a highly and cost-effective
means of providing key service providers with a platform to share their expertise and intelligence directly
with Government on a monthly basis. NCG met more frequently during the pandemic.
Housing and Homelessness
At the outset of the pandemic, it was apparent that shelter-based homeless accommodation was
inadequate to enable people to socially distance and practice the hygiene and self-care required to maintain
positive health and prevent the spread of communicable diseases.
It is also important to note that simply providing accommodation, without wrap around support, is likely to
fail, particularly for those who have been homeless long term. Resources to provide additional social
support services and help people transition to new and different environments are essential.
Ozanam Industries
The Society's supported employees located at multiple centres in the Sydney suburbs of Stanmore and
West Ryde, as well as in Coonamble, on the central western plains, packed around 1.2 million testing kits
during the pandemic. Boxes of assembled kits were despatched to NSW Health Pathology, which
commissioned SVdP NSW to undertake the work. This funding arrangement supported a steady supply of
testing kits to frontline staff who needed regular testing and provided an opportunity for people living with
disability to make an important and meaningful contribution to the community. The Society ensured that
individualised supports and roles tailored to suit a range of skills and abilities were made available.
Park Hotel Queensland
The Society, in partnership with the Queensland Government and other providers, conducted an
experimental model that facilitated sustainable access to housing and improve life outcomes for people
experiencing homelessness in Brisbane. The Queensland Government leased a hotel in inner city Brisbane
(Park Hotel) to establish self-contained homelessness accommodation with independent amenity. This
contained the spread of disease, enabled support workers to engage with residents to identify and respond
to their needs and better prepare them for sustainable housing and life outcomes when they exited the
Park.
Assisting people who are homeless to transition along the housing pathway requires:

    •         establishing trauma-informed training frameworks
    •         prioritising residents' dignity and autonomy




                                                                                                               Page 6 of 7
                                                                                    St Vincent de Paul Society
                                                                                    NATIONAL COUNCIL of AUSTRALIA Inc.




     •   conducting tailored intake interviews (to assess needs) and regular check-ins, and providing case
         management where needed
     •        adopting a flexible and resident-led approach, and
     •   embedding a reflective practice environment where practitioners can engage in thought, debate,
         and reflection; and where divergent views can be harnessed to inform a continuous improvement
         agenda.
The Department of Housing took on the head lease of the property and the Park Hotel owner remained
actively involved through staffing to maintain the asset and share service delivery. The Society provided
social service practitioners and coordinated other contracted support service providers.
In November 2023, the partnership between the Society and the Queensland Government is now more
secure in the long-term after the Queensland Government bought the hotel to ensure it will stay as a place
to provide a home to the homeless. The Society will continue to manage the property through our on-site
teams who support and service residents and help them transition back into the community with longer-
term accommodation.
Other recommendations include developing a national data collection to better understand people's housing
journeys, including transitioning to social housing or affordable housing.
Amelie Housing
The Society in NSW commissioned UNSW to conduct a longitudinal study on the wellbeing of the Society's
Amelie Housing social housing tenants.'7 The study found that feelings of being heard and having needs
respected are strongly connected to feelings of satisfaction with support and housing, and vice versa. Some
tenants were managing ongoing health issues and while their housing situation had little direct bearing on
their health and wellbeing, stability of housing assisted them manage their conditions better.
All governments need to identify suitable premises that could be used to provide self-contained
accommodation with individual amenities, not just during the pandemic but also in response to the current
housing crisis. Funding should not be limited simply to accommodation but must include wrap around
support, mechanisms for referral and case management.
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you require further information.




Mr P. Toby oConnor
Chief Executive Officer




' St Vincent de Paul Society NSW. March 2021. Filling the Gap - the relationship between the rate of
     unemployment        benefits   and    charity   assistance     for    JobSeekers.   Accessed  at:
     https://cms.vinnies.org.au/media/0q2gsg0w/019-2021 -jobseeker-report.pdf?path=0q2gsg0w%2F019-
     2021-jobseeker-report.pdf
" Shelter WA. 7 July 2021. The impact of rental moratorium lifting. Accessed at: https://www.shelterwa.org.au/the-
     impact-of-rental-moratorium-lifting/
 St Vincent de Paul Society NSW. Australian Catholic University. Jesuit Refugee Service. September 2023.
    Building bridges as we crossed them - A summary of the lived experiences of community service users and
    the workers who supported them during the COVID-19 pandemic in NSW. Accessed at:
    https://cms.vinnies.org.au/media/s1 hbbtq1/building-bridges-brochure.pdf?path=s1hbbtq1%2Fbuilding-
    bridges-brochure.pdf
iv Blunden, H. & valentine, k. January 2023. A longitudinal study of the wellbeing of social housing tenants of St
      Vincent de Paul Housing - Final Report. Social Policy Research Centre, UNSW Sydney




                                                                                                                   Page 7 of 7
