                   To the members of the Covid 19 Inquiry panel


I am writing this submission to respectfully voice concerns over Australia's response
to the COVID-19 pandemic. While acknowledging the unprecedented nature of the
pandemic and recognising the importance of the Inguiry's goal to improve pandemic
preparedness, there are critical areas that reguire thorough scrutiny.


Concerns Over Specific Pandemic Measures
Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates
appeared to breach not only several International Human Rights obligations but also
the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act 1901. These actions had significant
impacts on individual freedoms and social dynamics. These measures, often invasive,
warrant a detailed review to assess their Lawfulness, necessity, effectiveness, and
proportionality.
Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, and psychological impacts of
lockdowns and curfews have been profound. Many studies have now shown the
negative impacts of these measures, therefore a thorough evaluation is essential to
understand their long-term effects on Australian society and whether they were the
most appropriate response.
Communication Strategies: It is guite clear that there was an unwarranted use of
fear in public health messaging.           It's important to analyse whether such
communication strategies were effective or whether they contributed to unnecessary
panic and distress among the public.


Concerns Over the Composition and Scope of the Inquiry
Panel Composition: The appointment of Inquiry panel members who have previously
expressed support for certain pandemic measures raises questions about the
objectivity and impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel members who have expressed
support for such measures should recuse themselves, as there appears to be a clear
conflict of interest. If not, this inquiry will likely lack credibility and appears to be just
a continuation of the influence of vested interests in driving the Government
pandemic response that became increasingly apparent as the pandemic progressed.
Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One of the most
significant omissions in the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion of actions taken
unilaterally by state and territory governments. These decisions, including state-
imposed lockdowns and border controls, were pivotal to the nation's pandemic
response and should be included in the Inquiry.
The Need for a Comprehensive Review
While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the
above-mentioned areas are not overlooked. A. truly comprehensive review should
encompass all aspects of the government's response, including those currently
outside the Inquiry's scope, specifically an in
depth review and investigation into excess deaths since the rollout of the vaccine
program and subsequent mandates. Focus should be placed particularly on the
Western Australian experience, given that there was no Community transmission of
the SARS COV 2 virus until after the borders opened in April 2022, however excess
mortality began to rise in March 2021 and then again in November 2021 seemingly in
direct correlation with the Vaccine rollout and the introduction of mandates. The WA
situation created the perfect control group for a study, this should be utilised to gain
a clear picture of what is causing the Nationwide and indeed worldwide increase in
excess mortality, to ensure this experience is never repeated.


Conclusion

Post pandemic, as a result of the Government response it's becoming increasingly
clear that the Australian public have lost complete trust in it's Government, its
regulatory agencies, Doctors and the Health system as a whole. The only way to
restore this trust is a Comprehensive, impartial and fully independent inquiry, into
every aspect of the response.


As such, this submission represents a call for a more inclusive and thorough
investigation into Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty
to not ever be cast aside with fearmongering as it was by Australian governments
during the pandemic. We urge the Inquiry to consider these points to ensure
transparency, accountability, and the safeguarding of Australian values and liberties.



Trevor Willsher
