To whom it may concern,



My name is Mark Hancock, I'm                       before the pandemic I was working for^^^H
    as a Carer/ Youth Worker. I had worked for^^^^^^^Hfor around 8 years and was working as a
fully qualified employee. I worked all the way through the pandemic as we were deemed to be
'essential' workers at the time of the pandemic. After working for two years through the pandemic
without a thought of quitting, I was given one week to get vaccinated, or I was to be terminated. I chose
to stand my ground and say no to the vaccine. I knew my human rights were being violated and I was
prepared to lose the job I had worked long and hard in for 8 years.

I don't want to waste time in my letter today going over numbers and debating whether the vaccine has
proved to be safe and effective or not. Anyone who can look at statistics without a biased view can see
that the vaccine was not safe and effective. With countless injuries and deaths attributed to the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth vaccines and 'boosters'. I can remember when they were certain of 95%
efficacy and the promise of only two doses. Can you? Just a couple of the lies we were all but forced to
believe. After being subjected to the biggest propaganda campaign in human history, a campaign that
some could argue was the biggest psychological experiment ever conducted on humanity. There is now
thousands of Australians who have been displaced from their home, their job and their families. The
only sense of solace we can take from this is that we passed the test. We could see through the lies and
know that standing in the knowledge that we were being truthful in our actions as we know our human
rights and we knew they were being violated. Words cannot describe what it feels like to be forced to
'make a choice' about which way you want to ruin your life. Do you want the vaccine that has death as a
possible side effect? Or do you walk away from everything you've ever worked for? All the while being
ridiculed for your decision by your family, friends and colleagues. Risking living in the streets or risking
your life. For me it was an easy decision, as the possibility of losing my life after being coerced and given
an ultimatum, poorly disguised as a choice by the government and in turn my employer which was, by
definition, fascism. I will never give up my rights for the feeling of safety. No one will ever know the
stress and anxiety caused when forced to make such a decision. I am forever changed by this obvious
breach of human rights. Growing up in a society where you are taught that we are all to be treated
equally and in less than two years under the guise of 'doing it for the greater good'. Our human rights
were completely stripped, to the cheers and heckles of some of the more 'educated' in our society.
Those who opposed the vaccine had death wished upon them.

After three years we are still fighting for our voices to be heard and our rights to be upheld. In the past
three years I have struggled with my mental health as the pressure of starting a new life as someone
cast from society is quite heavy. I started a lawn mowing business to survive after being terminated. I
had to use my holidays that I had saved up for an actual holiday as a short-term wage whilst i figured out
my next move. I lost over 250 hours of sick pay that i had accrued and now don't get paid sick pay or
holidays as I work for myself. Not only did I lose my job, I also lost a safety net that I had earned in case
something bad ever happened to me. I lost my trust in my federal, state and local governments and my
local community. All because i knew if i wasn't prepared to lose everything, I would lose my human
rights forever. And if i lose my human rights forever. Then so do my children and their children, and
every child in every generation will lose their human rights too.
Please do not scoff at what i have written today. This comes from a man who is now so exhausted from
the experience of the past few years, so exhausted that just writing these few paragraphs is almost
bringing on the migraines that started during the whole ordeal. But not ever will I be exhausted enough
to give up. I will never give up. We will never give up. Those who passed this test do not give up. Anyone
who accepted the vaccine could not fathom where our society would be if we all just gave up. We
should be revered. We changed the world. I will never give up fighting for my human rights and the
human rights of those who come after me.

I will never give up.



Mark Hancock.
