W Hawkins Brockley




December 2020 - Victoria - NSW border closure

Victorian State Government closed the border to NSW on a snap decision pressuring Victorians to
make dangerous decisions to return to the state. The time line provided was irrational and
unwarranted. At the time the announcement was made we were at lunch and needed to make the
decision whether to risk our health and safety by packing the car and lining up to get across the
border to avoid home isolation. You required a permit to return to Victoria and the website crashed
obviously unable to deal with the mass applications.

We lost our rental accommodation - over^^^^B

The area we were in had low cases (there are more cases of COVID at present 14/12/2023 than when
the borders closed). Hypocritical and obviously the closures and reactions were over reactions.



Forced Vaccinations - made to chose between a vaccination or working/leaving your home. The
vaccinations are at that staged only provisionally approved and no science of the side effects
long/term or short known. Astra Zeneca is no longer available and taken off the market; this makes
me concerned what was put in my body.



Mentally

The abuse, scare tactics, bullying from the Government has scared me mentally. The Control put into
place taking away our Freedom and separate us from family/friends was obscene.

                        trapped in a one betdroom flat without much natural light with the right of
visiting her family and support network taken away. She became depressed, put on weight and after
the lockdowns removed found it difficult to go out.

Health check-ups have gone unchecked and not treated. The question is what was more dangerous
"everyday illness" or Covid that has a less than 1% death mortality and then for the over 80 age
brackets.

 Controlling Medical staff in what they could advise/say/publish immoral and heading towards
communism. Terminating valued medical staff due to their stance on mandatory vaccinations
irresponsible and bullying.
