I am writing with regards to the Government request for submissions regarding the Covid 19
response in Australia.



Firstly, we need to address the fact the Government acted well beyond their legal limitations and
completely disregarded our constitution.

The response went far beyond what was required to ensure the health and safety of all age
Australians. We could have followed the example of countries like Sweden which did not mandate
lockdowns for everyone. It was known early in the pandemic that the vulnerable ones were the sick
and elderly or people with co morbidities. Doctors who were treating patients made this clear from
the start. Our politicians should have taken advice from front line doctors who were treating covid
patients and not from non medically trained and practising bureaucrats and agencies with no
experience.

Early indications showed that low vitamin d, obesity, diabetes and heart disease were the main
contributing factors to bad outcomes. The rest of the population was at no more risk than a normal
flu.

The Government closed all discussion with alternate views to the hype and scare tactics employed
by mainstream media and paid for by the Federal Government. Even social media was forced to shut
down any free speech.

Locking people up for 14 days even if they showed no symptoms became the norm, with free travel
from town to town or state to state and country to country was prohibited with no proof of
desirable outcome. This led to closure of business, unemployment, loss of ability to pay rent and
mortgage and even the prohibition of visiting relatives in hospital and aged care. Funerals took place
without loved ones being able to attend. Suicides occurred as a direct result of these lockdowns and
travel restrictions. People died sad and lonely deaths with no loved ones to hold their hand.

Suppression of useful cheap medications was carried out and people died unnecessarily. Doctors
said, never before had they been banned from giving medications to patients and instead directing
them to return only when they could no longer breathe. Banning of useful drugs like ivermectin and
vit d and intravenous vit c was criminal. Then forcing everyone to partake of an experimental
medical procedure by way of a vaccine even when they had medical exemptions is truly beyond
belief. The harms of these vaccines were known early and should have been stopped straight away,
but instead the Government is still pushing them as safe and effective. So many people have died or
been injured by these experimental jabs. The full extent of damage is continuing to escalate.

An overhaul and investigation need to be directed at AHPRA and ATAGI as they completely ignored
the evidence given to them. There is also evidence that because AHPRA is 96% funded by
Pharmaceutical companies it is not unbiased but is reliant on following instructions from its
sponsors.

Police overreach and brutality especially towards people just trying to exercise and get fresh air was
criminal and unconstitutional. They should have been there to protect citizens.

State border closures should not have been allowed either as our country is one land.

Allowing private corporations and states to mandate vaccines or face losing their jobs as happened
to myself and many like me (even with a medical exemption) is beyond our law.
There is so much more to say on this topic but as the time allowed to submit this is short, I can only
conclude that the intention is to restrict input by the public.



There was so much more the government could have done to respond to this pandemic in a more
realistic way.

On that note, the WHO is now trying to take over the Sovereignty of individual countries whereby
they would direct all future responses with a one size fits all approach. This is basically what we just
experienced worldwide and we do not need a repeat of this disastrous outcome again. Therefore, I
urge our government to rethink our position and membership of the WHO which is a private
organization
