                                                                                    M Armstrong




Covid submission



I wish to firstly state that during the alleged pandemic there was huge government overreach on all
levels.

Personal items that affected myself and family
    • My wife lost her job this was because the government mandated an experimental vaccine
       even though she worked alone in an office as an administrator.
    •       I was made redundant from a position of nearly 26 years
        I had to personally restructure 4 of my contractors and cancel a complete delivery run and
       combine into 3 delivery runs costing one contractor potential earnings of approximately 120k
       Since these series of injections started my father of 92                         |, my brothers
                                           for family membersl                          ■ which may
       be a coincidence but the timing is incredibly close together.
        Im thankful none has died in my family as that is a known side affect of this drug.

These personal reasons alone warrant nothing less than a full covid inquiry

Over reach by government
   • We we locked in our state by a decision made in an illegal national cabinet of state premiers
        and the federal government
   •        No-one was allowed to view the minutes from the national cabinet. Why the secrecy?
   •        No exemptions to the experimental vaccine where allowed for any reason
   •        Doctors could not work ethically without fear of being deregistered
   • The mainstream media colluded with government and did not cover legal protests
        highlighting the dangers of taking an experimental drug
   • It was obvious that governments around the world were in lockstep and our government was
        obviously overzealous with its attack on the Australian peoples rights.
   •        Excess deaths are being ignored on all levels of government and media.

        I realise this is a small submission and only scratches the surface of all the injustices done by
        the federal and state governments, however there must be a full investigation and the
        minutes of the national cabinet must be released for public viewing that occurred during the
        pandemic. Government departments should not be allowed to ride rough shot over fully
        qualified medical doctors. State borders cannot be closed into individual countries at the
        whim of a tyrannical premier/s.

        Sincerely M Armstrong
