Submission to Covid 19 response inquiry
I would like to offer my perspective on the Australian response to Covid 19, in particular the effects
of the vaccine mandates on those who chose not to be vaccinated. I hope that the inquiry recognises
the deeply destructive impact such actions had within the community in order that they never be
allowed to happen again.

Background
In late 2021 (verbally) and then in early 2022 (formally), I was threatened with the termination of my
employment for failing to comply with my employer's vaccination policy. This policy mandated that I
receive two injections of an approved Covid 19 vaccine, and supply evidence to my employer that
they had been administered.

During this period, I watched as several colleagues and industry contacts resigned under the
expectation of being sacked. I was also aware that many others throughout Australia and
internationally were sacked for their non-compliance.

As a consequence of this threat, my family and I decided to sell our house and move, at significant
financial and mental cost. During this period, I became isolated from friends and family members. To
date, some of these relationships have not recovered.

Because of the power of public messaging broadcast by the alliance of government, media and
industry, many of my family and friends were unwilling to listen to my explanation for choosing not
to be vaccinated. This was in spite of the fact that several people we knew suffered significant
vaccine injuries, and there was emerging evidence that the vaccines were neither safe nor effective:
    1.       The vaccines did not prevent transmission (Singanayagam et al. 2021)
    2.       The vaccines did not prevent serious illness illness (Giris, 2022)
    3.       The vaccines could be harmful (Daniel, 2021; Nordstrom et al. 2021)
    4. The risk of severe illness or death from the disease given my age and high level of physical
        fitness was vanishingly small (NSW Health, 2020; Dept. Health, 2022)

Based on my own review of available information, I made the informed decision not to be
vaccinated. I accepted the risk to me personally but judged that the vaccine posed a greater risk to
me and my family than Covid did. This conclusion has been borne out in the intervening two years.

Issues with Federal Government Response
Although the federal government was not directly responsible for my employer's vaccination policy,
it must acknowledge it contributed to the circumstances in which mandates were made possible.
This shared responsibility begins with the actions of the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)
who gave provisional approval for the vaccines despite the lack of long-term safety data. In the wake
of this decision, politicians, the media and employers all claimed the vaccines were "safe and
effective".

Secondly, the federal government ordered over 250 million doses of the various vaccines (Lowry,
2022), enough for 10 doses per person. This suggests that perhaps the government knew the
vaccines did not prevent infection or transmission and may explain why governments were so
insistent people took them.

Thirdly, the states and territories only began mandating the vaccination of workers after the federal
government introduced mandates for aged care workers, indicating these jurisdictions were either
operating in concert with, or were emboldened by the actions of the federal government.
Fourthly, the federal government was silent when it came to protecting the legal rights of its citizens:
   1. It did nothing to highlight the illegality of mandating medical treatment as established under
        Section 51 (xxiiiA) of The Constitution
   2. It did nothing to communicate Privacy Principle 3 of the federal Privacy Act (1988), which
        establishes that consent must be freely given and constitute valid consent in order for an
        employer to collect evidence of vaccination.
   3. It did nothing to protect my rights, and those of countless others, under the federal
        Biosecurity Act (2015), which states that an individual cannot be forced into vaccination in
        the absence of a Biosecurity Control Order
   4. It did nothing to uphold Article 1 of the Nuremberg Code (1947), to which it is signatory. This
        states that voluntary consent is absolutely essential, that coercion is prohibited, and medical
        treatments are to be received only when the subject is in possession of all the available
        relevant information.
   5. It did nothing to uphold Article 6 of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights
        (2005) to which it is signatory. This states that any medical intervention is only to be carried
        out with the prior, free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate
        information.
   6. It did nothing to uphold Section 2.1.3 of the Immunisation Handbook (Commonwealth
        Department of Health, 2021), which states that for consent to be legally valid, it must be
        given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation.

Finally, opposing perspectives were shut down in order that public perception could be controlled,
and panic sustained. In this environment, mandatory vaccination became the only acceptable
solution in the minds of many.

The benefits to the community of the government's actions during the pandemic are questionable,
but the consequences for many are clear: broken relationships, ill health, financial hardship, and
total mistrust of government and institutions. These impacts were avoidable and can be avoided in
the future provided the government is honest about its failings and recommits to upholding basic
human rights.

Future pandemic response
Actions I believe the government should make to avoid similar outcomes from future pandemics
include:
     1. Provide space for mature public discussion regarding the pros and cons of all proposed
         pandemic response measures. Let scientific evidence guide discussion, not politics.
         Controlling the public discussion by shutting down dissent does not to instil trust, and risks
         momentum building around politically driven narratives.
     2.      Support the rights of individuals to make their own health choices.
     3. Promote the uncontroversial notion that improving one's health through diet and exercise
         provides the best protection against severe illness in any form.
    4. Uphold existing laws and international agreements that seek to protect the rights of
         Australian citizens, especially the right to make personal medical choices, and to free and
         informed consent.
     5. Avoid the temptation to allow health directives to be issued from the top down. Public
         health initiatives should not be allowed to interfere with individual medical choices. This is
         particularly pertinent given the WHO's proposed amendments to the international pandemic
         treaty which has the potential to be used as a vehicle for imposing population level medical
         treatment, overriding individual rights.
Lastly, I would like to see an independent investigation into excess mortality arising in Australia (and
seen across the western world) since 2021. To properly determine the cause/s of excess mortality,
this investigation must not be constrained by narrow terms of reference.



References

Daniel, D. 2021. More than 10,000 Australians have filed coronavirus vaccine injury claims. The
Sydney Morning Herald, 16 November 2021. Accessed at www.smh.com.au/politics/federal/more-
than-10-000-australians-have-filed-coronavirus-vaccine- injury-claims-20211115-p598yy.html

Department of Health (Australian), 2021. Australian Immunisation Handbook: preparing for
vaccination. Accessed at www.immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/vaccination-
procedures/preparing-for-vaccination

Department of Health (Australian), 2022. Coronavirus (COVID-19) case numbers and statistics.
Accessed at www.health.gov.au/health-alerts/covid-19/case-numbers-and- statistics

Department of Health (NSW), 2020. In focus: Covid-19 hospitalisations in NSW. Accessed at
www.health.nsw.gov.au/infectious/covid-19/Documents/in- focus/hospitalisations.pdf

Giris, J. 2022. '80% of serious COVID cases are fully vaccinated1 says Ichilov hospital director. In Israel
National News 03 February 2022. Accessed at https://www.israelnationalnews.com/news/321674

Lowry, T. 2022. Australia has ordered millions more COVID vaccines than it needs. What are the
options to deal with them? Accessed at https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-07-18/australia-covid-
vaccine-surplus-options/101237430

Nordstrom, P., Ballin, M., and Nordstrom, A. 2021. Effectiveness of Covid-19 Vaccination Against Risk
of Symptomatic Infection, Hospitalization, and Death up to 9 months: A Swedish Total-Population
Cohort Study. Preprints with The Lancet. Accessed at
https://papers.ssrn. com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3949410

Singanayagm, A., Hakka, S., Dunning, J., Madden, K. J., Crone, M. A., Koycheva, A. 2021. Community
transmission and viral load kinetics of the SARS-CoV-2 delta (B.1.617.2) variant in vaccinated and
unvaccinated individuals in the UK: a prospective, longitudinal, cohort study. The Lancet, Infectious
Diseases 22(2), p 183-195. Accessed at https://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/PIIS1473-
3099(2 l)00648-4/fulltext
