To whom it may concern,

My experience of government over-reach during the supposed pandemic was akin to that of
                      I was the owner operator of^^^^J Massage, thriving massage
business jn^^^^^Queensland. Under threat of 6 months Jail and a $13000 fine I was
forced to close for 9 months, as I chose not to take a covid 19 Vaccine. 15 years of hard
work, gone. I have not managed to build my business back up and now support my family
with Centrelink payments. I was initially hesitant to take a vaccine as I witnessed many long­
term clients suffer major health issues immediately after receiving their dose. Issues
including strokes, facial paralysis, myocarditis, pericarditis, and many others. It was very
obvious to me that it was unsafe.

My Concerns.

It is clear to me many aspects of the government response to the pandemic were without
basis in science. Namly masking, social distancing, checking in, locking down, staying in your
bubble, and the government restricting use of all medications showing incredible
effectiveness treating this illness around the world. This needs to be investigated.

Police brutality and the constant and relentless dissemination of fear and propaganda by
politicians, paid celebrities and influencers, and the media, caused immeasurable damage to
the mental health of every Australian. Despite the purposely restrictive terms of reference
of this inquiry all of this should be vigorously investigated. I believe it was all intentional.

The focus of this inquiry should include the corruption of the TGA in approving the covid 19
vaccines. The vaccines that required the very definition of the term vaccine to be altered to
include gene therapies. It should also address the totalitarian nature of the government
response.

A through investigation into the cause of the huge and sustained level of excess deaths since
the start of the covid 19 vaccine role out should also be held.

Unfortunately, I hold little faith any of this will really happen. Please prove me wrong.

Good luck

Sincerely
