I am (was) a Mental Health Nurse for over 30 years, sacked in November 2021 for not
complying with the bioweapon injections. I knew that these were bioweapon shots before the
rollout commenced in Australia because I was actively watching the CO VID Plandemic news
coming out of USA/Canada/UK months before the vaccine rollout commenced in Australia.

Prior to the Plandemic, I had been actively studying US Politics & psychological warfare for
the previous 4 years. The fact is that there was more than enough evidence of vaccine injuries
and deaths coming out of the USA/UK/Canada, to STOP the rollout BEFORE it commenced
in Australia. But this blatant overseas evidence obvious to anyone paying attention - was
wilfully ignored by our Australian Govemment/TGA/AHPRA.

The sheer level of incompetence cannot be excused as incompetence since these "leaders" all
have Phd's. I can only conclude that this Plandemic is pre-meditated murder to depopulate the
planet, orchestrated by the "Globalists" who have spent years perfecting this plan and
employing "Useful Idiots" (ref:                  ex-KGB "The 4 Stages of Ideological
Subversion" https://vigilantcitizen.com/latestnews/ex-kgb-explains-the-four-stages-of-
ideological-subversion-its-all-happening-now-video/ ) in key positions through infiltration,
exactly as^^^^^|^^^penly states here -
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uOuLQDRCexs and as since raised in Parliament here
https://dailydeclaration.org.au/2022/03/31/alex-antic-world-economic-forum/.

This is indeed a Military grade "Psy-op" that is being waged against the Australian people
and all Global citizens. The Plandemic and the mass brainwashing / cognitive dissonance of
the mass population must be looked at through the lense of military Psychological Operations
and Biowarfare. The evidence pouring out of the internet is overwhelming.

The depopulation is not the only goal of these Globalists that are waging war against the
global population.

Clearly the microscopy evidence of nanotech in the injections must be actively pursued and is
in my opinion the larger threat to the future of our children and the human race as we know it.
If we are complacent and do not take the evidence of nanotech in the vaccines seriously, then
we are doomed. We simply must succeed in waking up the mass population and in winning
the legal battle.

                 one of the last remaining survivors of the Holocaust said at the recent 75th
Anniversary of the Nuremberg Code, "Unless all of us resist, never again is Now" -
https://worldfreedomalliance.org/au/news/vera-sharav-unless-all-of-us-resist-never-again-is-
now-full-speech-nuremberg-august-20-2022/ .

And therein lays the problem. Until we fix the outcome of the Royal Commission into
Institutional Child Abuse that excluded the institutions of the Politicians and the Judiciary of
Australia - another example of breathtaking incompetence - then all future Royal
Commissions will be a sham.

Until we fix our justice system, no future Royal Commissions will result in any actual
resolution. And meanwhile, the perpetrators of this Plandemic will get off scott free. We need
criminal prosecutions of the Australian leaders of our captured institutions, the perpetrators of
this Plandemic here in Australia, and not just in the USA.
I was the first to state on social media that we are dealing with psychopaths and
megalomaniacs. No-one had stated that this was pre-meditated murder before I did, and there
was a lag of at least several weeks before those statements came back to me from overseas.
Those were my words, before anyone else on social media came to the same conclusion..

I was also the first to state that the
                                                                                         and
relieved that many others both in Australia and globally, includin                       have
since completed indepth investigation and come to the same conclusions. This realisation is
for me "The Shot Heard around the World", the great awakening that removed plausible
deniability as we realised that all these highly educated "leaders" with Phd's could not
possibly be this incredibly incompetent.is entirely correct when he stated
at an AMPS conference "the incompetence is breathtaking".

Until we realised that this was well orchestrated pre-meditated murder, there was confusion.
But once we realised this was intentional, a genocide of the elders (elderly & over 50's),
disabled, sick - initially via Astrazeneca, and a transition into the transhumanist agenda of
Humanity 2.0 via the nano-technology in Pfizer and Modema, then the confusion
disappeared. The agenda for the NWO Great Reset is now clear, and Moderna is setting up a
factory smack bang in Victoria - despite that it had never brought a single product to market
prior, and no-one is paying any attention whatsoever to Modema’s funding by DARPA via
MIT here https://www.modernatx.eom/about-us/leadership#noubar-afeyan and that MIT only
accepts the top 6% of applicants and is a major source of recruitment for the US DoD. Pfizer
is intended to be a distraction, the scapegoat, so that no-one investigates Modema properly.

Meanwhile, it is important to realise that Class Action Suits and Royal Commissions are a
default modus operand! that they have already out maneuvered us with and therefore the only
solution is criminal prosecutions akin to




Enough is Enough. We will not stop. We will not tolerate another biased, sham Royal
Commission where the perpetrators get off. We will not wait for or rely upon the outcome.

And to those of you that make the final decision - you are in a double bind. If you do not hold
the Royal Commission, we have more time available to pursue criminal prosecutions without
you. Or, you can hold the Royal Commission as a strategy to try to delay us.

We are working together with our colleagues in USA/UK/NZ/Canada to remove ALL of the
perpetrators from positions of power, permanently.

We are and will continue to pursue criminal prosecutions globally, regardless of this
Australian Government lead COVID inquiry.

Thankyou for listening.
I am extremely well educated on the entire "pandemic" as I have spent 4-6 hours per day
researching all of the censored information about the COVID "pandemic" coming out of
USA/UK/Canada BEFORE the vaccine rollout even commenced in Australia.




The COVID-19 injections were clearly mandated in breach of the Nuremberg Code. I was trained in
the Nuremberg Code because it is fundamental to medical ethics and forms the entire basis of the
Mental Health Act, to ensure that mentally ill patients rights to informed consent and least
restrictive environment are upheld and respected. These are our fundamental human rights and my
job is to protect and advocate for the rights of the mentally ill. There was obviously no informed
consent ensured by the Australian Government by virtue of the media blackout on any information
that contradicted or questioned their vaccine mandates and mantra of "safe and effective".




There was so much evidence literally pouring out of USA/UK/Canada that I was never ever going to
accept taking these injections that I had already concluded were bioweapons BEFORE the vaccine
rollout even commenced in Australia. The vaccine rollout should NEVER have commenced in
Australia, there was already ample evidence and therefore I declined the "COVID-19 vaccines" on
the basis that I had strong scientific and medical grounds for refusing as my conclusions were that
these injections were the equivalent of pointing a gun at my head.




There was already an unprecedented number of vaccine injuries and deaths occurring overseas, that
should have been enough to stop the vaccine rollout in Australia. That the vaccine rollout then
proceeded in Australia was either negligence or a criminal act, and I conclude that at a minimum, the
Australian Government is complicit with Crimes Against Humanity - a global depopulation and
implementation of the^^^^^driven "Decade of Vaccines" and the World Economic Forum
agenda for the "Great Reset" as publicly announced and written about                       On this
basis I declined the COVID-19 "vaccines".




Unsurprisingly, the all-cause mortality stats coming out of Australia, USA, UK, Canada and NZ all
show an unprecedented number of deaths coinciding with the "vaccine" rollouts. For example, the
UK top reason for death is now listed as "Unknown causes". Australia has a 17% increase in all cause
mortality in the first half of 2022. Yet still the Australian Government and media are engaged in a
cover up, denying an association between the all-cause mortality stats and the vaccine rollout, and
now news articles positioning for plauisble deniability - "oops!".




Under the guise of the EUA for which there was no basis other than a PCR testing pandemic - and
there is a Peer Reviewed document attached showing that the PCR test is unfit for purpose therfore
all of the case numbers were exaggerated to create the illusion of a pandemic - and therefore our
fundamental human rights, medical ethics and scientific standards have been entirely disregarded
ON PURPOSE, and on this basis I refused the COVID-19 "vaccines". I also knew damn well my
employer and the Australian Government were NEVER going to co-operate with ANY requests for
Risk Assessments etc. and that NONE had ever been conducted.




In summary, the Australian Government driven and employer mandates to take the COVID-19
vaccines under threat of losing my career and my income, are clearly in breach of our fundamental
and well established human rights under the Nuremberg Code. The mandates are clearly coercive
and intentionally prevented informed consent of the Australian public. I have felt and continue to
feel personally under threat, and due to the extensive scientific and medical research I have read,
and the warnings pouring out of the USA/UK/Canada directly from medical and legal specialists (inc.
numerous well respected Professors/Assoc Prof/Phd's) in the fields of Virology, Immunology,
Patents, and Biowarfare, my conclusion is that the evidence is overwhelming that our health system
has been weaponised, and the Australian Government and my employer Latrobe Regional Hospital
were/are effectively holding a gun at my head. To be forced to take any of the COVID-19 vaccines is
an enormous threat to my physical safety that I conclude is akin to playing Russian Roulette, with
absolutely no guarantee the injections will not cause severe and disabling vaccine injuries and/or
death. The statistical data coming out now proves my original position, as the sheer volume of
vaccine injuries and deaths is unprecedented in the history of vaccines, in spite of their well
established and demonstrated manipulation of the statistics.
