Whilst this may be dismissed as conspiracy theory by those that do not engage in any actual
critical thinking or independent research, why on earth would or should I trust any Government or
any news journalists or any social media platform that is known to be actively censoring the
following experts (and this is the short list). In this day and age we expect transparency, not
censorship. This is a short list of medico-legal experts that ALL western governments have been
actively censoring:-


Dr Francis Boyle - professor of international law at the University of Illinois College of Law.^
Professor Boyle was responsible for drafting the Biological Weapons Anti-Terrorism Act of 1989, the
American     implementing     legislation   for   the   1972    Biological   Weapons     Convention.
https://wikispooks.com/wiki/Francis Boyle


Dr David E Martin - who wrote his first classified briefing about bio-weapons corruption in 2001,
and has been presenting lectures at bio-weapons conferences since then. He has been tracking Dr
Anthony Fauci's spending and notes that Fauci has authorised $191 billion in funds for the bio-
weaponisation of viruses against humanity. He is a patent lawyer that has tracked all of the US
government funding from the NIH to Wuhan and presents his findings in the "Fauci Dossier" -
https://www.corona-ausschuss.de/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/FauciDossierWordFileText.pdf


Dr Reiner Fuellmich - international lawyer that has lead the Corona Investigative Committee and
has interviewd countless medical specialists from multiple countries that have worked historically in
the vaccine industry, and/or have Phd's in immunology and virology - https://corona-investigative-
committee.com/


Dr Tau Braun - US National Counterterrorism & EMS Advisory and Trainer - Your Government Is
Trying To Kill You Because The Original US Government Is Long Gone
https://whiskevtangotexas.com/2022/06/10/dr-tau-braun-your-government-is-trving-to-kill-you-
because-the-original-us-government-is-long-gone/


Senator Malcolm Roberts - COVID Under Question: A cr ss-party inquiry
https://www.malcolmrobertsqld.com.au/covid-under-question-a-cross-partv-inquiry/ and ALL of the
medical professionals listed here.


Julian Gillespie, Barrister - Covid "Vaccines" Being Injected into The Population Are Not the Same as
Those Trialled Before Approval
April 2nd 2022
https://expose-news.com/2022/04/02/covid-vaccines-not-the-same-as-those-trialled/


I had come to the conclusion BEFORE the Australian Government commenced the vaccine rollout in
March 2021 that I will no longer accept any injection or any "vaccination" or any medications of any
kind from any pharmaceutical company due to the complete lack of transparency and the extreme
efforts they are going to, to continue to ban and censor the real medical specialists, and to prevent
any alternative form of treatment being provided to the global population. They are quite obviously
lying to and manipulating the mass population. The Australian government is under the control of
foreign interests. And I can only conclude that the foreign interests are aligned with what I can only
regard as evil, satanic and malicious intent towards a naive and innocent global population. This list
of examples provided is an extremely short list. I can provide gigabytes of substantiating reference
materials - patents, research documents, and interviews of medical and legal specialists. Clearly
anything I conclude that has any form of relationship to satanists is against my religious and spiritual
beliefs. I will not be injected with an experimental substance that clearly has a relationship to satanic
symbolism, tramples all over our fundamental and pre-existing human rights under the Nuremberg
Code (1947) and Declaration of Helsinki (1964), and when the Australian Government is obstructing
transparency and therefore preventing any Australian from having proper Informed Consent as
defined in the Nuremberg Code (1947) and the Australian Immunisation Handbook.


It is impossible to for me to separate my religious and spiritual beliefs and values, from the political
and the military-grade psychological operation that has been and continues to be waged against
ordinary civilians by their own Governments on a global scale, entirely unprecedented in the history
of humanity as we know it.


The Australian Government forced employers to mandate the vaccines, and the employers failed to
stand up for their employees fundamental human rights despite well established and rigorous
scientific and medical policy and procedure. This is therefore completely unacceptable and
intolerable behaviour for a public health service.



Furthermore, I object to being financially coerced to accept any vaccines produced by Bill Gates
who via Microsoft lodged the Patent WO2020/060606 "Cryptocurrency system using body activity
data"    https://patents.google.com/patent/W02020060606Al/en             which     has    anti-Christian
symbolism referencing the year 2020 060606. You may like to turn off the "Body Activity Data" that
your phone is recording, it is in your settings and the default is of course set to ON. It is in advanced
settings, it can be difficult to find. I have turned mine off.


I object to being forced to accept any vaccines that have anti-Christian symbolism and references
to the number 666 and Luciferase or Luciferin, with the Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine used as the
example evidenced here:-


Australian Product Information - SpikeVax (Elasomeran) COVID-19 Vaccine - Moderna COVID-19
vaccine product information from TGA website here -
https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/spikevax-elasomeran-pi.pdf

"One dose (0.5 mL) contains 100 micrograms of messenger RNA (mRNA) (embedded in SM-102 lipid
nanoparticles)."


SM-102 Product Insert - https://www.cavmanchem.com/product/33474/sm-102
"SIVI-102 is an ionizable amino lipid that has been used in combination with other lipids in the
formation of lipid nanoparticles. Administration of luciferase mRNA in SIVI-102 - containing lipid
nanoparticles induces hepatic luciferase expression in mice. Formulations containing SIVI-102 have
been used in the development of lipid nanoparticles for delivery of mRNA-based vaccines."


Note that COVID-19 vaccines are the only mRNA vaccines in existence.
Moderna Patent US8710200 - https://patents.google.com/patent/US8710200B2/en

On Page 75 (of the pdf) read under the section "Example 18 Invivo Delivery of Modified mRNA" (p 73
/ 74 of patent)

"To create luciferin, 1 g of D-luciferin potassium or Sodium salt was dissolved in 66.6 ml of distilled
phosphate buffer solution..."

666. Again. Coincidence? Too damning in the presence of a substance called "Luciferin" and
"Luciferase" for me to be able to dismiss this. These people are sick. You can't make this stuff up. If
you think this is a conspiracy 'theory' go and read the actual patents I have provided the link to.


I object to being financially coerced to accept any vaccines that are currently being Ic ked at by
independent microscopy experts across multiple countries, that show actual evidence >f nano­
technology, when research such as this presents a major threat to our free will and individual
autonomy. For example:-


Artificial 'Magneto' protein remotely controls brain and behaviour
May 19th 2021
https://principia-scientific.com/artificial-magneto-protein-remotelv-controls-brain-and-behaviour/


Injectable device delivers nano-view of the brain
June 8th 2015
https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/storv/2015/06/injectable-electronics-promise-sharper-view-of-
brain/


I object to being financially coerced to consume or inject any medical or other substances that are
coming from an industry that is using venoms of many toxic creatures, including snakes. For
example:-


Rattlesnake venom extract helps strike back against superbugs
23.03.2019 - "...and now a team from Australia and Spain has discovered a promising peptide in the
venom of the South American Rattlesnake."
https://particlepeptides.com/en/blog/blog/rattlesnake-venom-extract-helps-strike-back-against-
superbugs



Rudolph Steiner also made several important statements in the early 1900's that directly relate to
the potential use of vaccines and the situation we find ourselves in today: -



A Future Vaccine to Prevent Knowledge ofSoul and. Spirit
