                           Premier of Western Australia


Our Reference: 60-080161; 60-079473




Ms Robyn Kruk AO
Chair
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
commonwealthGR@pmc.qov.au


Dear MsJ4rtjk

Thank you for your invitation for state and territory governments to make a submission to
the Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry).

To assist the Inquiry, the Western Australian (WA) Government has put together the
following observations for the panel to help inform the development of recommendations
to improve future pandemic responses.

The Commonwealth Government took decisive action to support state and territory
governments to stabilise the economy and lift health system capacity:

COVID-19 was an unprecedented global event which required quick decision making with
limited information in the face of rapidly changing circumstances. Overall, Australia
weathered the pandemic well, and the WA Government commends the Commonwealth
Government for implementing key economic and health initiatives, including:

    •   Wage subsidies and income support programs such as Jobkeeper, the Pandemic
        Leave Disaster Payment, and the High Risk Settings Pandemic Payment. These
        payments helped stabilise the economy, particularly on the East Coast, protected
        households from the financial impact of lockdowns, and assisted casual workers
        without access to paid leave to adhere to mandatory isolation periods.

    •   Financial and material assistance to enable swift and flexible hospital and public
        health responses. The swift agreement of National Cabinet to the National
         Partnership on COVID-19 Response, and implementation of discrete measures,
        such as temporary COVID-19 and telehealth items in the Medicare Benefits
        Schedule (MBS), and the Primary Care - Fast Track Electronic Prescribing
        program, helped ensure the WA health system was equipped to effectively respond
        to the broad and varied challenges presented by the risk and spread of COVID-19.
        The roll-out of COVID-19 vaccines in collaboration with jurisdictions and the supply
        of antivirals from the National Medical Stockpile also ensured a rapid public health
         response. It should be noted, however, that WA received vaccines later than other
        jurisdictions due to our COVID-19 free environment. In the future jurisdictions
        should not be penalised for their successful pandemic management.


                       2 Havelock Street, West Perth, Western Australia 6005
                Telephone: +61 8 6552 5000 Email: WA-Government@dpc.wa.gov.au
                                      www.premier.wa.gov.au
                                             2



There is an important opportunity for governments to consider which COVID-specific
measures should be embedded within systems in an ongoing way. For example, the
creation of bulk-billing incentives and Telehealth MBS items should be considered as an
ongoing mechanism to make primary and specialist health care more accessible for
vulnerable populations, and people living in regional and remote communities.

Through utilising short lockdowns, border controls and effective public health
measures and vaccination campaigns, WA was able to deliver some of the best
health and economic outcomes in Australia:

WA’s experience of COVID-19 differed from the rest of Australia. After the initial outbreak
in February 2020, WA effectively eliminated community transmission of the virus until
March 2022, by leveraging its geographical isolation and utilising three short lockdowns
and various border controls. Comprehensive and targeted COVID vaccination programs
during 2021 and 2022 ensured that the WA population, including high-risk groups, were
optimally protected when the border controls were removed.

This approach, which was affirmed by the High Court in 2021                            in
Palmer v Western Australia, delivered WA some of the best health outcomes in Australia,
including the lowest COVID-19 fatality rate of all the states and territories through to
September 2022. At the same time, WA’s economy (as measured by the change in State
Final Demand) grew by two percentage points more than the weighted average of other
states and territories, and this growth was seen across all sectors of the economy. WA
was also able to keep its schools open to support student welfare and learning, with only
20 days of optimal online learning experienced by WA children during the pandemic, half
of them occurring at the start of the pandemic.

Further information about WA’s COVID-19 response can be found in the final report of the
Review of Western Australia’s COVID-19 Management and Response. A copy of the
report is attached.

Evidence was critical for informing decision-making during the pandemic, but at
times, WA’s access to key data was constrained by Commonwealth policy:

Data and health research from Australia and overseas was critical to enabling WA to make
evidence-based and informed decisions during COVID-19. However, timely access to
important national data was constrained in the absence of established information
governance processes and appropriate technical infrastructure. This included vaccination
data from the Australian Immunisation Register to help target the vaccine program to
areas or cohorts across the State with low uptake, as well as business records from the
Australian Business Register, and the Australian Taxation Office to assist with identifying
households and businesses which may have been eligible for financial support.
Information regarding passengers arriving in WA from overseas and other States and
Territories, such as via aircraft or cruise ships, was also at times difficult to acquire from
the relevant Commonwealth agency.

Moving forward, WA recommends the Commonwealth establish transparent mechanisms
with clear roles and responsibilities for safely sharing critical information with states and
territories, as a standard practice. This approach will support rapid, coordinated responses
to future emergencies, and enable more consistent policy development, service planning
and delivery across jurisdictions.
To support this, WA is participating in the Intergovernmental Agreement on Data Sharing
and priority data sharing activities overseen by the Data and Digital Ministers meeting.
                                            3


WA is also drafting new legislation for privacy and responsible information sharing, to
strengthen protections for personal information and facilitate the safe use and sharing of
government-held information. This legislation will align the comparable frameworks in
other jurisdictions, recognising that a nationally consistent approach can streamline
implementation and enhance public trust in government.

Governance mechanisms that were put in place served Australia well during
COVID-19, however there is scope to strengthen the processes, transparency and
accountability of National Cabinet:

National Cabinet responded well to the COVID-19 pandemic by supporting high-level
discussion, quick decision-making and cooperation by First Ministers. The adoption of
principles-based, consensus decision-making allowed jurisdictions to move at a pace
suited to their local risk factors.

However, WA would like to see the operation of National Cabinet strengthened beyond its
pandemic settings through greater adherence to agreed processes, including early notice
of critical information and the distribution of agenda papers at least five-business days
prior to meetings. This would help promote greater collaboration and less
Commonwealth-centric decision making, not just during times of emergency such as
COVID-19, but over the longer-term as National Cabinet shifts its focus to areas of
strategic reform.

Access to the most up to date health advice was critical for informing Australia’s pandemic
response. The Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) provided an
expert advisory function to National Cabinet, which worked well in relation to most health
matters. Several of AHPPC’s subcommittees, notably the Communicable Disease
Network Australia and Public Health Laboratory Network, played critical roles in providing
the evidence base for this expert advice. AHPPC also played an important role in
communicating public health responses, particularly in implementation of public health
measures, including social distancing and mask-wearing, and in testing, tracing, isolation
and quarantine policies.

Consideration needs to be given to the appropriate body to provide Cabinet with the most
current and reliable health advice during the next pandemic or major health emergency
and how this body is integrated into national governance arrangements. If the new
Australian Centre for Disease Control is envisaged to fill this advisory role, early
consideration will need to be given as to how state and territory interests are represented
in the governance and operation of this body, and how the expert subcommittees will be
maintained and utilised.

The National Coordination Mechanism (NCM) was another effective governance
mechanism used to manage Australia’s COVID-19 response. Once established, using the
NCM to convene sector-based groups was a useful way of bringing together
Commonwealth, state and territory governments and industry stakeholders to quickly
respond to critical challenges.

The success of this approach has been demonstrated by the embedding of the NCM in
the Australian Government Crisis Management Framework, and use of it to convene
representatives from a wide range of relevant sectors for non-pandemic related
emergency responses, including efforts to maintain critical supply chains following
damage to national rail and freight infrastructure.
                                            4


Commonwealth, state and territory roles and responsibilities should be more
clearly defined and agreed to support a more coordinated pandemic response:

One of the key challenges during COVID-19 was the lack of clear delineation of state and
territory and Commonwealth roles and responsibilities. For example, despite legislative
responsibility resting with the Commonwealth, the quarantining of international and
interstate travellers was left to the state and territory governments using State of
Emergency powers. WA was forced to procure CBD hotels for quarantine purposes after
the Commonwealth refused to allow the use of its own facilities including various defence
bases with their own medical services. By the time the decision was made by the then
Commonwealth Government to build the Centre for National Resilience at Bullsbrook, the
pandemic had evolved and by the time it was built, quarantine controls were no longer
used. Similarly, the Commonwealth assumed a coordination role in the vaccination rollout,
which would have normally been a responsibility of the states. Jurisdictions have clear
responsibilities under their public health and emergency management legislation to
manage pandemics and other health emergencies, and these need to be factored into any
consideration of respective roles and responsibility. There were also missed opportunities
to coordinate the public messaging on public health measures, and vaccinations and
 boosters, which may have contributed to people’s hesitancy to get COVID-19
vaccinations.

Finally, the Australian Defence Force should play a greater role in any future pandemic
response. It has numerous facilities which could be used for quarantine purposes,
significant transport capabilities for moving people and medical supplies and highly trained
and disciplined personnel who could patrol and secure our borders. Despite this, the use
of ADF infrastructure and personnel was extremely limited in WA’s experience.

Once again, thank you for the opportunity to provide input into the Inquiry. If you have any
questions or wish to discuss any aspects of this letter further, please contact Ms Amanda
Pickrell PSM, Deputy Director General, at                                        or 0456 864
132.

Yours sin




PREMIER

  22 DEC 2023
