I appreciate the opportunity to share feedback on both federal and state government's handling of the
covid response. In summary it was a massive over -reaction to something that had a mortality rate of
no greater than 0.2 to 0.5 %. With the vast majority of deaths being in the over 70's and in aged
care homes.

The UK government back in March 2020 put out a health advisory stating they had already
downgraded the threat of COVID 19 as a high consequence infectious disease or HCID. The advisory
stated " Now that more is known about COVID-19, the public health bodies in the UK have reviewed
the most up to date information about COVID-19 against the UK HCID criteria. They have determined
that several features have now changed; in particular, more information is available about mortality
rates (low overall)"...

https://www.qov.uk/quidance/hiqh-consequence-infectious-diseases-hcid

Despite this announcement, the federal government along with many other governments around the
world proceeded with draconian lockdowns in lockstep, which have decimated many small businesses
and damaged the mental health of a lot of people including children. Why was there so much fear put
out by politicians , bureaucrats and chief health officers about this virus when deaths from
influenza-like illness in Australia hit a record low in 2020 according to the ABS. Covid was the 38th
leading cause of death in 2020, with deaths from respiratory diseases showing a significant reduction.
The ABS also confirmed that 2020 saw a reduction in overall mortality, despite this year being a
pandemic year.

https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health/causes-death/causes-death-australia/2020

To add insult to all this, our federal government spent hundreds of billions of dollars to laid off workers
and businesses who were ordered to close. All of this additional stimulus has massively added to the
already high debt burden this country is facing. The bi- product of all this excess stimulus is rapidly
increasing inflation which has only added to the pressures faced by so many already stressed
households and small businesses. Where is the plan to address this debt mountain apart from
increased taxation?

I could go on about the PCR. test which was cycled way too high in laboratory testing, the results of
which could never tell you whether a person who tested positive to SAR.S Cov-2 was actually infectious
or not. But these tests were not intended to be used for diagnosis. They were only designed as a
research tool. Yet the so called positive test results these tests generated, were the main tool used by
premiers and CHO's as a way of justifying devastating lockdowns and other restrictions.
This CDC document clearly states on page 39 under the subheading "Limitations" that" Detection of
viral R.NA may not indicate the presence of infectious virus or that 2019-nCoV is the causative agent
for clinical symptoms."

and

"This test cannot rule out diseases caused by other bacterial or viral pathogens."

https://www.fda.qov/media/134922/download

To base a lot of critical decision making on this one test given its serious limitations, was a
monumental blunder. I sincerely hope the submissions to this inquiry are taken seriously.
