Covid-19 Response Inquiry

I am a wife; and a mother to                         I am in my|
Individually, and as a family, every aspect ot our lives were negatively
affected by the handling of covid - by the mandates, lockdowns, mask
wearing, limitations on travel, etc.

The mandating of covid-19 “vaccinations” was draconian and totally
mismanaged. There were no short or long term data on the “vaccine” use,
the information given kept changing, and our rights to make our own
informed decisions on medical issues were trashed. As a result of our
concerns, we did not get vaccinated.

                                 and     all lost their jobs. The way they were
treated by their employers was not nice. Each received varying degrees of
harassment and bullying. In my ^^■case he was told he would lose
entitlements if he did not resign^^^Hwas actually on long service leave
when he was sacked, losing his yearly bonus. We all suffered financially. Our
plans for transitioning to retirement were destroyed when we had to
withdraw superannuation early just to survive.

The unvaccinated became a target. We were called granny killers. The hosts
of Sunrise morning show said don’t allow the unvaccinated to your place for
Christmas. The then premier of NSW said she didn’t want to stand next to
an unvaccinated person. Calls to limit an unvaccinated person’s access to
medical treatment were made. We were called all sorts of names. We were
ostracised.

The lockdowns, border closures, etc limited our ability to visit family
members (eg our                     interstate); to buy food, to exercise, to
socialise, to work.

We have family and friends who followed the official advise and have
suffered illness, injury and in some cases death as a result of the
“vaccinations”.

We now question any advise and information from the governments, health
authorities, media, ATAGI, ARPHRA, and even our own local doctors.


Health and non-health response

The Commonwealth, state and territory governments, the National Cabinet,
health departments, the media, big corporations and bodies like ATAGI and
AHPRA have devastated Australia and Australians either by design or
neglect of their responsibilities.

To name a few issues and solutions:­
- Statistics. Died “with” must not be grouped with died “from”. This inflated
  death rates. Statistics were ignored or skewed to fit an agenda. We need
  the statistics to be true, honest and transparent.
- AHPRA. AHPRA must be held accountable for their treatment of medical
  professionals and of their de-registering of those who expressed
  alternative views. By what authority did AHPRA have the power to do
  what they did?
- Doctor I patient relationship. Medical professionals must be allowed to
  treat their patient as befits their condition. It must be a private and
  confident matter between the doctor and patient.
- Lockdowns. People must not be locked up. The harm caused by the
  lockdowns exceeded any perceived benefit. Health, fitness, socialisation,
  etc should be promoted.
- Media. Journalists must be able to report the news, not be tied down to
  the official line of governments, the media owners and big investors like
  the drug companies. The media pushed an agenda, pedalled fear and
  created a hatred against unvaccinated people. Conflicts of interest must
  be disclosed, eg who provides the funding to the media organisations.
- Politicians. Politicians must be held to a higher standard. The name calling
  and abuse of the unvaccinated was appalling. There was a big show of
  wearing mask while giving interviews, then taking the masks off as soon
  as the cameras stop rolling. They peddled fear by giving constant covid
  updates, using skewed statistics and making outrages claims.
- Police. The police force must never be used against Australians and their
  right to peaceful protest. The heads of the police forces must be held
  accountable for their actions in ordering the use of excessive force and
  intimidation. There are also individual police who went to extremes. All
  must be held accountable.


Responsibility of the Commonwealth government and the role of state
and territory governments

The Commonwealth government allowed the state and territory governments
to behave like their own sovereign entities with their own draconian edicts,
like closing state borders. Australia was divided. People could not travel to
see sick, aged and dying family members and friends. Vulnerable people
were left to suffer on their own. People who traveled interstate for work were
forced to choose between providing for their family and actually being with
their family. Every aspect of Australian life was negatively impacted.
National governance arrangements and the National Cabinet

The National Cabinet was an unnecessary and secretive entity with too much
power in the hands of a few. We have a Commonwealth government who
was equipped to oversee the covid “pandemic”.

Overall the Commonwealth, state and territory governments went on power
trips, destroying not only our democracy but every aspect of our society,
economy, and the basic fabric of what we are as Australians.



In summary

The Commonwealth, state and territory governments; along with health
advisers, health departments, the media, corporations, ATAGI, AHPRA and
other entities need close scrutiny to see where conflicts of interest lay;
where there was mismanagement and abuse of power; where Australian
laws were broken. What was done to the Australian people was uncalled for
and devastating. Alternate views to the offical line were not tolerated. Still the
vaccine injured are being ignored. The increase in deaths and “turbo”
diseases are ignored. There appears to be little to no attempt to get to the
truth.

Australia and the Australian people have suffered. We are doomed to go
through the same again if true and honest investigations are not made and
entities and individuals are not held accountable for their actions.
