Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Governance: There needs to be far more transparency about the decision-making processes of the
National Cabinet. The scope of this inquiry specifically excludes unilateral actions taken by state
governments but how do we know that any of their actions were unilateral when we do not know
what the National Cabinet discussed and which actions all state representatives endorsed? The
measures taken in Australia were quite consistent across the states which suggests that no state
acted unilaterally.

Key health response measures: The public health messaging produced fear and panic, causing
much disruption; at personal, family, social group and whole of society levels. Bullying and
ostracism were rife and mainstream media contributed to anxiety and discord in the community.
Although the statistics of actual cases and deaths were available on government websites, and
showed that the virus was not nearly as fatal as all messaging implied, this information was not
announced to the public. Fatality rates from around the world were measured and ranged from
0.93% to 3.06% of cases, which is far lower than during historical influenza epidemics. In South
Australia, from 920 cases, 4 people died. This occurred before the roll out of the Covid-19 vaccines.
After the roll out of these vaccines, not only did the number of cases escalate, so did the death rate.

The Western Australian government has released its 2021 Vaccine Safety Surveillance Report
https://news.rebekahbarnett.com.aU/p/west-australian-government-finally?
htm source=substack&utm campaign=post embed&utm medium=email
which shows that adverse effects from the Covid vaccines far outstrip those of all other vaccines
combined.

It was totally irresponsible of the public health departments to promote the use of these
vaccinations, knowing that they were only provisionally registered by the Therapeutic Goods
Administration and therefore could be administered only if a public emergency had been declared.
There was a complete overreach by Police Commissioners everywhere who kept extending the
emergency powers month after month, when those powers are supposed to be temporary and used
only in a real emergency which the COVID-19 outbreak was not.

On 11 March 2020, in his speech declaring the pandemic, the Director General of the World Health
Organisation stated repeatedly that the virus could be controlled and that the number of cases was
declining. Why then was a pandemic declared? Why was there a rush to develop vaccines when,
pre-vaccine, the virus was being successfully controlled? Could it have something to do with the
fact that the WHO, like the TGA in Australia, is largely funded by pharmaceutical companies? The
WHO also receives large contributions from
is on record as saying that his investment in pharmaceutical companies is far more lucrative than
software.

In my opinion, the WHO and the TGA are not to be trusted. The WHO kept changing the advice
about masking and recommended unprecedented measures that did not feature in Australia’s
Pandemic Response Plan developed in 2019. Why did Australia’s governments and health agencies
throw out the plan carefully developed over time in favour of unexamined, draconian practices
applied ad hoc and without any scientific or ethical basis?
The scope of this inquiry mentions some of the side effects of the measures taken by considering
supports that can be given to “ people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example
mental health and suicide prevention)” and “Support for industry and businesses” and “Financial
support for individuals” as well as “Community supports (early childhood education and care,
higher education, housing and homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures”

These supports would not be required if lockdowns, QR codes or signing in, masking, social
distancing, vaccine mandates and other means of fear-mongering had not been used. Never apply
these again; we have no desire to live in a police state, controlled by lies and exaggeration.(/9S4)

Clearly, you are aware of the reports and statistics that provide evidence of the deleterious effects of
lockdowns, etc. So, why would you consider repeating actions that have done so much damage in
both human and economic terms, and then providing “support” for those affected?

The latest OECD figures show that educational attainment in schools across the world has declined;
which is why Australia has still managed to squeeze into the top ten despite the falling standards in
mathematics and literacy which have been widely reported in local newspapers. On-line learning is
less effective than face-to-face teaching and is also discriminatory. People who cannot afford the
best technology or who have only one computer in a house where several young people are trying to
study at home are cut off from the online lessons. A quarter of the students in my university tutorials
were unable to access the Zoom technology and so were left to teach themselves as best they could.
Even students who were “present” sometimes disappeared as the internet connection dropped out,
their plan had expired or there was a power failure.

According to their feedback, university students found it very difficult to cope with online learning;
how did Early Years and Middle Years learners manage?

School closures occurred in many countries, sometimes for as much as a year, and this is having a
lasting impact on young people, not only in terms of educational attainment but also with respect to
delayed or impaired emotional and social development caused by isolation, as well as by students
and staff being obliged to wear masks.

Masking is harmful physically, cognitively and emotionally. A list of studies supporting this
contention is attached. Even Professorwho was England’s Deputy Chief
Medical Officer from 2019 - 2021 and is currently CEO of the UK Health Security Agency,
testifying at the UK Covid Inquiry admitted that the effectiveness of masking is “uncertain”. The
masking rules were not even logical: wear a mask when standing but not when sitting?? If people’s
brains had not been so blunted by panic fear, far more questions would have been asked.

Lockdowns prevented many small businesses from opening and social distancing cut their profits
even after they were allowed to open. This had the roll-on effect of making it difficult for people to
make mortgage repayments and led to financial insecurity and, in the worst cases, homelessness.
Conversely, huge corporations like supermarkets and liquor stores were allowed to operate more or
less as normal. So companies making billions in profits were shielded while small and family-
owned businesses went to the wall. Just whom were the Covid measures protecting?
Is it sensible first to prevent people from working, then to support them financially with government
handouts? How do you explain allowing hairdressers and beauty salons to open but not podiatrists?

If you study the Universal Declaration ofHuman Rights, as promulgated by the United Nations,
you will find that half of those human rights were infringed by Australia’s response to the Covid
pandemic. What happened here was nothing short of cruelty

The risk now is that Australia will accept the WHO’s amendments to the International Health
Regulations and we will be helpless to prevent repetitions of the misery of what are now being
called the “Covid Years”. Please study carefully what the WHO is proposing, particularly the
paragraph where it is recommended that the words “human rights” be deleted.

Recommendations:
Spend money and other resources on educating people about healthy life-styles and good nutrition,
instead of promoting healthy-eating pyramids that pander to big business, (e.g. Cow’s milk is for
calves, not humans and feeding cows hormones to keep them “pregnant” is abhorrent. Yet, most
people are convinced that milk is healthy.) Processed foods full of additives should be far more
strictly controlled.

Our society is over-reliant on taking drugs to control health problems; it would be far better to avoid
getting sick, as far as is possible. A healthy immune system is the best deterrent for any virus.

Do not allow Australia to become a signatory to the new WHO Pandemic Treaty; preferably
withdraw from the WHO altogether. That organisation did the world no favours during the “Covid
Years”.

Never allow a “No jab, no job” policy to be suggested, let alone enforced. Mandatory vaccination is
a violation of human rights and contrary to the Nuremberg Code, the Commonwealth Constitution,
the Biosecurity Act 2015, and the official Australian Immunisation Handbook among others.

Follow the procedures outlined in the Great Barrington Declaration (https://gbdeclaration.org/ )

Prevent vested interests from slandering people who propose solutions and provide information not
approved by organisations funded by pharmaceutical companies or with links to vaccine
manufacturers. Always check the affiliations of people and institutions providing health advice.

Professor                                                                   suddenly became
“controversial” and “anti-vax” when he pointed out that vaccinating people during a pandemic
would simply cause the virus to mutate faster, ^^^^^^^^^^^^^urned out to be right but not
before his reputation and that of others who agreed with him was tainted by mainstream media and
internet “Fact Checkers”. The same slander was aimed at those who said that the novel corona virus
was manufactured in a laboratory in Wuhan where immoral gain-of-function experiments take
place. The people who lied about that, notably Dr^^^^^^^^^vho controlled the USA’s Covid
responses, were eventually exposed.

Follow the money!
