13th December 2023

To the Members of the Independent Panel,

            Submission to the Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry

I am writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects of Australia's response to the
Covid-19 pandemic. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry's goal to improve pandemic
preparedness there are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny. Firstly, it is very difficult to
comprehend why and to take seriously a Commonwealth Government Inquiry that fails to consider
as part of the terms of reference the "Actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments"
because the actions of all levels of government since March 2020 have detrimentally affected the
lives of all Australians, as well as impacted future generations to come. And so, I reject those terms
of reference and demand that a Royal Commission be the first step towards accountability to the
Australian public. Furthermore, allowing a submission period of one week, without advanced
noticed, immediately prior to the festive period, seems to suggest that the Commonwealth
Government does not take public input seriously and so I hope it has been crafted with the right
intentions. In addition, the composition of the Panel and the appointment of the members who have
previously expressed support for certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity
and impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel members who have expressed support for such measures
should recuse themselves.

In my submission I will raise issues with direct reference to the relevant terms of reference below:

    •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
        and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
        National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee)
        and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

        There are a number of issues where many relate to a breakdown in the rule of law and
        widespread violation of human rights.
            1. The refusal to allow Australian citizens to return home at a time of crisis.
            2. The National Cabinet, combining the executive branches of State and Federal
                governments, has no basis in the Constitution and completely undermines the rule
                of law.
            3. The National Cabinet not releasing minutes to this day and keeping the minutes top
                secret.
            4. The Prime Minister secretly appointing himself to a plethora of Ministerial positions.
            5. The Federal Government consenting to border closures and other inhumane non­
                medical interventions.
            6. The Federal Government supporting in principle, State level mandates for an
                experimentally approved gene therapy, rather than protecting the right of informed
                consent, which is in breach of the following:
                     a. The Commonwealth Constitutions. s.51(xxiiiA) which prohibits civil
                        conscription into medical and dental services.
                     b. The Biosecurity Act 2015 (Cth) s.95 prohibits the use of force for vaccination.
                     c.    The Biosecurity Act 2015 (Cth) s.92 prohibits vaccination or treatment
                          without an individual Biosecurity Control Order with stringent requirements.
                     d.    Nuremberg Code, Article 1, states "The voluntary consent of the human
                          subject is absolutely essential".
                     e.    Section 83.4 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth), which relates to interfering
                          with political liberty states "Any person who, by violence or by threats or
                          intimidation of any kind, hinders or interferes with the free exercise or
                          performance, by any other person of any political right or duty shall be guilty
                          of an offence".
                     f.    Article 6 of the UNESCO statement on Bioethics and Human Rights, Section
                          1, states "Any preventative diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention
                          is only to be carried out with the prior free and informed consent of the
                          person concerned, based on adequate information. The consent should,
                          where appropriate, be express and may be withdrawn by the person
                          concerned at any time and for any reason, without disadvantage and
                          without prejudice".



    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
        key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
        health messaging).

In relation to the above specific area the key points are as follows:

             1. The banning of known cheap, effective treatments that are known to reduce Covid-
                19 hospitalisations and deaths. I refer to the clinical study published in the Elsevier
                Journal titled "Outcomes after early treatment with hydroxychloroquine and
                azithromycin: An analysis of a database of 30,423 COVID-19 patients".
             2. The dismissal of these safe and effective treatments as a means to the emergency
                approval of the various novel Covid-19 mRNA based therapies because of the
                requirements that "there is no adequate, approved and available alternative to the
                product", raises questions around the independence of regulatory bodies and
                conflicts of interest.
             3. AHPRA's threatening and harassing of doctors who dissented with the governments'
                stated position.
             4. The Federal Government's failure to ensure that the emergency approved mRNA
                based therapies were assessed as the Genetically Modified Organisms that they are
                and complied with the relevant safety standards with regard to pollutant DNA, is a
                failure of duty of care.
             5. And the above does not even address whether these gene based therapies may be
                contributing to the current extraordinary excess mortality that is being observed in
                Australia.
             6. Giving $8 billion to Big Pharma for poorly tested gene-vaccines, sight unseen, then
                having the chair of CEPI (that pushes mRNA and 100-day vaccines for the^^^|
                                            review the procurement deal is a conflict of interest.
             7. It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use of fear in public health messaging.
                It is important to analyse whether such communication strategies were effective or
                whether they contributed to unnecessary panic and distress among the public.
             8. The implementation of mask mandates had a significant impact on individual
                freedoms and social dynamics. This measure warrants a detailed review to assess
                their necessity, effectiveness and proportionality. Furthermore, numerous studies
                and research show that masks do not prevent individuals from infection and actually
                increase it.



    •   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations
        (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people
        with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
        linguistically diverse communities)

In relation to the above specific area the key points are as follows:

           1.   Early on in 2020 it was known based on the data from overseas countries that Covid-
                19 was a higher risk for individuals with comorbidities and negligible risk for the vast
                majority of the population. So why wasn't a risk profile or risk-based assessment
                conducted in any of the non-medical interventions such as Federal and State border
                closures, lockdowns, business closures and more? In future a pragmatic, risk based
                common sense approach must be a central feature of the design of the response.
           2.   Existing therapies that are known to be safe should never be banned to Australians
                even if their effectiveness is debatable.
           3.   Why was the Federal government silent in the face of the States violating human
                rights?
           4.   Governments both State and Federal must be open, transparent and provide the
                public with all the working information from every meeting, especially in a time of
                emergency.
           5.   Both State and Federal governments must act in accordance with their respective
                constitutions.
           6.   No government in Australia, State or Federal, should ever be allowed to mandate
                medical procedures.


I hope this submission represents a collective call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation
into Australia's Covid-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast aside with
fearmongering as it was by Australian governments during the pandemic. I urge the inquiry to
consider these points to ensure transparency, accountability and the safeguarding of Australian
values and liberties.
