Dear Officer


I am a health practitioner in private practice. I have many concerns about the ways in which
the Australian government's response to COVID-19 departed from established public health
principles. I am hopeful that The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel should address will take
these submissions seriously and act accordingly.


I like to keep my submission simple and ask simple questions.


In 2003, I was around when the SARS virus hit and at the time was involved in a food
business at Circular Quay. We went bankrupt at that time due to the fear that was
generated with this virus. But what did not happen was lockdowns and mask wearing
during this time.


Both these viruses produce the same symptoms and have the same morbidity. Just like the
influenza virus the most vulnerable populations are the very young and elderly.


The response that took place during the COVID-19 virus was severe and unnecessary.


The AHMPPI:


   •   Does not recommend community masking of asymptomatic individuals, and
       acknowledges that there is “no evidence” that mask wearing by symptomatic
       individuals in the community reduces infection in the community (p. 124).
   •   Does not recommend school closures except when there is evidence of high clinical
       severity, complication rates and/or high transmissibility specifically in children -
       none of which applies to SARS-CoV-2 (pp. 145-6).
   •   Does not recommend workplace closure, working from home, or cancellation of mass
       gatherings except for pandemics with a moderate to high clinical severity (pp. 147-9).
   •   Specifically recommends against the use of thermal scanners in airports and other
       ports of entry (p. 136); screening of passengers on cruise ships prior to
       disembarkation for viruses with low or moderate clinical severity (p. 138); and
       internal travel restrictions (i.e. “restriction of travel across state or territory borders, or
       within certain areas of a state or territory, either to protect remote communities or to
       isolate areas with higher rates of exposure” - p. 142).
   •   Recommends ceasing recommendations for voluntary isolation of ill travellers at
       borders, once community transmission is established (p. 139), and contains no
        recommendation for universal, mandatory quarantine at either national or State
        borders.
   •    Recommends voluntary self-isolation of cases (p. 150) and voluntary quarantine of
        contacts (p. 151); neither of these recommendations could possibly be construed as
        supporting mandatory hotel quarantining or quarantine camps for interstate travellers
        or international arrivals.
   •    Recommends contact tracing only in the early stage of a pandemic of a novel agent (p.
        152).
According to section 2.9 (p. 23), "The primary parties to the AHMPPI will be the Australian
Government Department of Health (Department of Health) and State and Territory Health
Departments. Yet each of the aforementioned recommendations of the AHMPPI were
contravened by the Australian Commonwealth and/or State Governments.


When was the decision made to formulate CO VID-19 policies without regard to the AHMPPI,
by whom, and at whose behest? Why did neither the Commonwealth Minister for Health,
nor senior public servants within the Department of Health, call attention to these
departures from the AHMPPI and urge that Commonwealth and State COVID-19 policies be
brought back in line with its evidence-based recommendations?


The imposing of vaccine mandates clearly violated the rights of Australians to receive
informed consent on medical treatments, and to be protected against discrimination on the
basis of their medical records? Why did the Commonwealth government permit State
governments to impose vaccine passes that contravened Australians' right to maintain the
privacy of their medical information?


As a party to the UN Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, and the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Australia has affirmed its commitment to upholding
the fundamental human rights of its citizens to make fully-informed and autonomous
decisions about their medical care.


For example, Article 3 of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights states
that


   1.    Human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms are to be fully respected.


   2. The interests and welfare of the individual should have priority over the sole interest
   of science or society.
Article 6, Clause 1 states that


   Any preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be carried out
   with the prior, free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate
   information. The consent should, where appropriate, be express and may be withdrawn
   by the person concerned at any time and for any reason without disadvantage or
   prejudice.


Article 11 states that


   No individual or group should be discriminated against or stigmatized on any grounds, in
   violation of human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms.


Yet Australians' fundamental human rights - including freedom of association, freedom of
movement and the right to work and to freely participate in the cultural life of the
community - were violated by vaccine passes that excluded unvaccinated individuals from
retail, recreational, sporting and cultural venues, and from travelling interstate and
internationally; and by vaccine mandates that denied unvaccinated individuals the right to
work in their chosen occupation. Australians who were at extremely low risk of serious
COVID-related illness, and who did not wish to take vaccines with no long-term safety data,
were pressured, coerced, shamed and intimidated into taking COVID vaccines 'to protect
others' rather than for their own benefit. This was done in direct contravention of Article 3
of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, and despite the Australian
Public Assessment Reports for each vaccine admitting that the ability of these products to
prevent viral transmission had not been established (see AUSPARS for Pfizer/BioNTech,
Moderna and AstraZeneca) - thereby invalidating the government's claim that individuals
had a moral duty to get vaccinated for the good of others. Senior politicians, including
Premiers, Chief Ministers and the Prime Minister, stigmatised unvaccinated Australians and
blamed them for governments' own refusal to restore the fundamental human rights that
they had improperly abrogated.


At no point during the COVID-19 did the Australian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) fulfil
its charter to protect the human rights guaranteed under the treaties to which Australia is a
party. The AHRC failed to perform its statutory duty to report any of the multitude of public
health ordinances and employer-imposed mandates that violated human rights, to the
relevant Minister. It also failed to respond adequately to the deluge of complaints of human
rights violations, and requests for assistance in matters of human rights, made by the public
during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Australian public had no effective protection against
the serious violations of their human rights that were committed by both Commonwealth
and State governments, in the course of instituting policies that directly contradicted the
Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza.


Why did the AHRC fail to perform its statutory duties during the COVID-19 pandemic? What
instructions were given to AHRC staff with respect to the unprecedented volume of
complaints and requests for assistance received from the public, and by whom?


Why has the Commonwealth Government ignored,
downplayed or misrepresented multiple indicators that
COVID-19 vaccines are neither safe nor effective?
The Database of Adverse Events (DAEN) has, from the beginning of the COVID-19 vaccine
roll-out, thrown off clear safety signals indicating that these products are associated with a
disproportionately high rate of adverse events, including serious adverse events and death.
The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has downplayed these safety signals, claiming
without evidence that the high number of adverse events reports is a consequence of
efforts to promote reporting. On the contrary, prominent doctors, including former
Australian Medical Association (AMA) president,                      have publicly asserted
that serious adverse events are both underreported and underinvestigated, because of
pressure exerted on healthcare providers by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation
Agency (AHPRA). Attempts by elected representatives to gain concrete information on how
TGA ascertains whether a reported adverse reaction is causally related to a vaccine, and
whether autopsies have been performed on people who died after receiving a COVID-19
vaccine, have been met with evasive responses.


Excess mortality was below expected levels during 2020, and rose slightly in 2021 and
dramatically in 2022. The greatest increase in excess mortality occurred after the vast
majority of the Australian population had received at least two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine,
and after Omicron - a variant associated with mild clinical illness - had become the
dominant circulating variant of SARS-CoV-2. The Australian Medical Professionals Society
has extensively documented the unprecedented increase in excess mortality in their ebook,
Too Many Dead. At the very least, it is self-evident that COVID-19 vaccines have failed to
protect the Australian population against the most serious outcome of SARS-CoV-2
infection, namely death. It is patently absurd to argue that without near-universal
vaccination, many thousands more Australians would have died of COVID-19 when in fact,
excess mortality was at least 3.4 standard deviations above the mean in 2022.


Multiple statistical analyses correlate COVID-19 vaccinations with excess mortality,
especially in elderly people (see here, here, here and here). Being 'up to date' with COVID-
19 vaccination was found to increase the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Analysis of data from
the phase 3 clinical trials for the two mRNA COVID-19 vaccines used in Australia, found that
the excess risk of serious adverse events attributable to these products was higher than the
risk reduction for COVID-19 hospitalisation relative to the placebo group. Yet governments
continue to promote COVID-19 vaccines to the Australian population, claiming - contrary to
available evidence - that they reduce the risk of serious illness and death.


How does the TGA analyse adverse events after COVID-19 vaccines, reported to DAEN? Are
autopsies being carried out on people who died after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine? Why has
no investigation of the unprecedented levels of excess death in 2022 and 2023 been carried
out - and why did the Senate block an inquiry into excess deaths?


Finally, I believe that only a properly-constituted Royal Commission will have the scope,
authority and capacity to thoroughly investigate the many policy decisions in response to
COVID-19 that resulted in catastrophic damage to the Australian economy, egregious
violations of human rights, ongoing historically unprecedented excess mortality, spiralling
rates of chronic illness and disability stemming from adverse effects of COVID-19 vaccines,
and a breakdown in the social fabric of this nation that will take many years to repair.


The 2023 Edelman Trust Barometer reported that Australians do not trust government, the
media, NGOs or business. Is it merely a coincidence that all these institutions participated in
promoting a narrative about COVID-19 that was, at best, misleading, and a suite of policy
responses to it that inflicted multiple harms on the public? If the Commonwealth
Government is truly interested in learning lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic, the Inquiry
should forthrightly address the causes of this loss of trust, which are rooted in its
multitudinous and grave policy failures.
