12/12/23

Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

My name                          I am a W.A resident

I am responding as best I can to an enquiry that has given limited time to respond.
It is also very disappointing to find this inquiry does not cover all interactions between
Federal and State governments. This is essential in order to gain a complete understanding
from these unprecedented events.

I wish to raise some questions and express my concerns about the way this covid response
was managed:


   1) Why were we forced to take dangerous experimental synthetic gene therapies
       without the right to "informed consent" and why were we denied the right to
       traditional "safe and effective" treatments, of which there are many?


   2) These dangerous and ineffective experimental gene therapies offered virtually no
       protection to the public. This was known before the vaccine rollout, so clearly we
       were not given these dangerous treatments to protect our health. Considering these
       treatments are not for our health, one must ask why our right to "informed
       consent" was denied and resulted in forced compliance to take these dangerous and
       "not fit for purpose" experimental treatments, which are still promoted as "safe and
       effective" to this day?


   3) It is interesting to note thatdid a lot of research experimenting on the
       reproductive organs of rats. The Australian population is now seeing a drop in
       fertility and an alarming increase in miscarriage. There are also several serious health
       risks associated with these dangerous experimental gene therapies such as heart
       problems and blood clots. This government should be focussed on all the serious
       injuries and excess deaths that coincide with the vaccine rollout. It appears some of
       these failings may also require thorough investigation of organisations such as the
       Therapeutical Goods Administration (TGA), Office of The Gene Therapy Regulator
       (OGTR) and AHPRA.


   4) Community support can be improved by not implementing diabolical initiatives such
       as forced vaccinations, job confiscation for non-compliance, lockdowns on people or
       business, or bankrupting the economy with the false claim of "pandemic". This
       causes poverty, and I grow tired of hearing how government is going to fix things it
       broke. The death rate from this supposed pandemic is somewhere in the vicinity of
       0.16%. A bad flu season can be of this magnitude, so this did not qualify as a
       "pandemic".
       One must also consider all the false PCR tests elevating the numbers of infection.
       The majority of people who died were the elderly or had co-morbidities.
   Government (or any other entity) must never be able to force vaccinations on any of
   our citizens. It is disturbing to see how many people have been injured or died from
   these ineffective and excessively dangerous vaccines.
   By preventing these stressful tyrannical health initiatives, we would also be
   improving the wellbeing and safety of people who become suicidal or depressed as a
   result of the events during the last three years.


5) Regarding vaccine supply, The Australian taxpayer must never be forced to pay
   unlimited sums of money for dangerous and inferior products. These despicable
   contracts must never be signed or concealed by the government again, it is
   taxpayers money, not government money. The Pharmaceutical companies should
   take all liability for their products and pay compensation for the injuries and deaths
   caused by these dangerous and inferior products. Again, no treatments or vaccines
   should be given to the citizens without their valid informed consent.


6) Regarding Mechanisms to target future responses to the needs of particular
   populations: One must question the motives here. We have just been forced to take
   dangerous and ineffective synthetic gene therapies during a fake pandemic, and
   now government is talking about how it can thrust these dangerous products on
   more citizens. I have no problem if other people want to play Russian roulette with
   their bodies, however, it must be done with valid informed consent.


7) We now know that one consequence of these dangerous mRNA jabs appears to be
   the cause of immune imprinting, which results in the most heavily vaccinated being
   admitted to hospital or ICU at a rate much higher per 100,000 than the
   unvaccinated. Why are these products not banned immediately?
   I have enclosed a copy from NSW Health presenting outcomes for the final 2 weeks
   by vaccination status to 31/12/22.
   Previous weekly reports from NSW Health showed similar results.


8) Will governments start complying with our laws by not forcing citizens to take
   dangerous and/or experimental treatments, restricting freedom of movement or any
   other human rights violations? Natural immunity is far safer than the coerced
   experimental treatments we have received through these tyrannical health
   initiatives.


   Yours sincerely




   Email :
