Government Covid Response in Australia

Protect the fragile people from dangerous information? // Or
Hide the facts, grab power and look for opportunistic ways for self promotion.

Both Australian Governments since 2019 have been complicit in orchestrating a totalitarian response to what
amounted to a pretty serious flu jointly engineered under a collaborative arrangement for the US and China. Of ALL
partners ... China! The one country that fails to recognise patients, intellectual property and human rights! After a
lagging uptake of this untested mRNA new delivery system, our government conspired to create traction. Dr Malone,
with some 30 years experience with mRNA considered this experimental and would require public consent he said to
the Washington Examiner reporter afteryou tube banned his video. June 25; 2021. He was calling for restraint
earlier but was vilified and ostracised by his peers in a misinformation campaign run by

Right from the initial SARS announcement in late 2019...any thinking Australian knew it was going to be a train wreck
because China was influencing that useless body of people at the WHO. We went from the official statement of "a
vulnerable focused response” and "no one would be forced to take the jab” (do-not use the term vaccine) to a full
blown... "No Jab no Job.” How dare the ^^Hexecutives say we didn't force anyone! Let me put it another way... if
you don't take this jab you cannot work. If you cannot work you can't get a pay. If you can't get a pay, you can't pay
your mortgage, no money for food, can't pay your bills or run your vehicle. Is that spelt out enough for the
simpletons in denial?

On a personal level, I lost my job as I wasn't convinced to take the new delivery system that had been banned for the
last 25 years under top Virologist advice. Near the end of my working career, Government actions bought my job it
to an abrupt close and without continuity at my age... I've networked again since.

My husband made his own choices as his health was compromised from a^^^^^^^^^^Hperspective. His Dr
insisted it was the best thing was to take the jab. Subsequently after 2 jabs and a booster he discovered his immunity
to be so low he caught^^^H and then later was forced to begin^^^^^^^treatments. We know for sure the
catalyst was the ^^^booster because he has regular blood tests and after the booster his white cell count
plummeted to dangerous levels. He still, after 18 months, has a a bleeding sore at the site of the ^^^booster and
his GP is not prepared to resolve it, instead referring him to a ^^^Jclinic. By the way... within a 3 month window of
full protection we both had covid so it was a completely useless efficacy. Frankly I remember having the odd flu over
my life time that was just as bad or slightly worse.

As a counsellor I couldn't believe the draconian lockdowns up and down the country. Although the young weren't
affected much with their young primed immunity, the greed of the Pharmaceutical companies driven by Government
self interest pushed ahead regardless. When Labor came to power they lazily left a lot of useless covid restrictions in
place and in many cases had to be lobbied to get them removed.

There are more than 10,000 potential claims for vaccine injury and thousands more with adverse side affects
including my husband. The spike in unexplained deaths is another issue your statisticians are happy to ignore or
dive for cover away from. 12% increase Nationally in unexplained deaths is a lot! I personally know of at least 2
cases where people previously healthy have dropped dead. In majority of cases it's due to a mystery heart
condition.

The carnage caused in small businesses during that period is another aspect that Governments, insulated by their tax
payer funded salaries, remained aloof and indifferent. Even Palaszczuk jetted off to secure the Olympics deal while
we were all locked down and the public would rather have seen water infrastructure to our farmers. But hey... sport
goes on too, another hypocrisy Queenslanders had to endure under her leadership.

Elsewhere Dan Andrew's led the^^^| charge and Victoria earned the award of the most locked down State in the
western world. Outside of this unionised, tow the line state, he was a laughing stock as he called in riot police to
harass mums not wearing a mask or patrons trying to have a "mental health coffee.”

But we are talking the Federal response here! Appalling because we were mandated to take a so called vaccine that
clearly did not have the prescribed checks and balances of required time frames. We are adults and can make up our
own minds about our own health. You violated our human rights and you continually push the envelope while you
re-engineer National Group Think. The booster program persisted well past the public acceptance threshold and
even today the Government factory deal with ^^^^^has made a flu/covid combo that only the less vigilant will line
up to receive. The GPs have said to us... a combined covid/flu vaccine will never happen. Really? Not with this
communist government. Australians have had enough of the arrogance of the two party system and your
misinformation, disinformation, media brain washing techniques, completely disconnected from the average guy in
the street. The Senators and MPs with integrity aren't many so we can spot them clearly standing out from
the Canberra bubble and squeak. Independents and personal integrity for the next election.

Submission by Ant E Bellum
