1. The timing of this enquiry (2 weeks before Christmas) and the limited terms of reference
   (excluding the actions of the States) give the impression that it is a token effort probably with
   pre-ordained outcomes. The hallmarks of a government initiative designed produce a pat on
   the back despite Australia's hopelessly bad response to Covidl9. I hope I am proven wrong.

2. The Federal Government failed to legislate anti-discrimination laws which then allowed
   State Premiers to bulldoze human rights by mandating experimental mRNA vaccines that
   were, at the time, far from proven to be either safe or effective.
       a. The vaccines themselves, having been developed using the cells of aborted human
           fetuses, pose serious moral concerns as well as promoting the continuing trade in
           abortion products (those responsible for the purchase and distribution and
           promotion of these products must repent of their actions and seek God's mercy).

        b. The vaccines that were procured in bulk by the Federal Government were
           experimental, unproven and were already showing safety concern signals at the time
           of purchase. Spending tax payer's money on bulk purchase of experimental, risky
           vaccines was irresponsible government.

        c.   The effective banning of other early treatment protocols (hydroxychloroquine,
             ivermectin, etc) was stupid. Federal resources dedicated to opening mail to ensure
             that no one was importing some of the safest drugs known to man was a very petty
             federal government action, once again at the expense of the tax payer.

        d. The vaccines (procured by the federal government) have since proven to be
           ineffective (at preventing Covid 19) and far from safe. The vaccine injury reporting
           systems in various countries (including Australia) show injuries from these covid
           vaccines to be multiple orders of magnitude worse than any previous vaccines. If
           the cure is worse than the disease, it isn't a cure. There is now a mountain of
           evidence showing that the "safe and effective" narrative was a lie from the start.

        e. The government providing diagnosis directives to doctors (and the "persecution"
           of doctors who disagreed with the government stance) is a very bad precedent
           which was enabled by the Federal Government. It has led to a perception that
           doctors no longer treat the individual in front of them with the best advice possible,
           but are simply there to provide pre-approved-by-government advice. This damage
           to trust in the medical establishment will take a long time to heal and only after
           government ceases to meddle in individuals' health decisions.

        f.   The disastrous (largely state) government mass vaccinations (enabled by the federal
             government) has led to hospitals being as full as ever years after the pandemic is
             over.

        g.   Similarly, the all-in death rate in Australia had a sharp upturn once mass covid
             vaccinations commenced and seems to have steadied at this new rate.

3. Considering, the clear and mounting evidence that the vaccines (procured and promoted by
   the Federal Government) are neither safe nor effective, it boggles my mind to still see
   advertisements promoting covid vaccine booster shots. Continuing this advertising (much
   of which is authorised by the Federal Government) is not just irresponsible, but criminally
   negligent. To be clear the federal government is still encouraging Australians to take a
   vaccine that is known to be ineffective and create a host of other health issues (or as an
   absolute minimum has a very strong safety signal that more than warrants their removal
   from the market).

4. A proper enquiry with broader term of reference should be established to bring to justice
   those who have recklessly played with the lives and health of Australians (many of whom
   are in the federal government).

5. Future governmental responses to "health crises" must:
       a.          respect the individual's choice of treatment;
       b. be free from influences from outside Australia (ie do not allow Australia to sign up to
           pandemic treaties, with the UN, WHO or similar, which effectively gives some or
           much control of Australians over to parties outside Australia);
       c. legislate anti-discrimination to stop the state premiers from bulldoze human rights
           again;
       d. bring those accountable for the debacle of a covidl9 response that has killed and
           maimed many Australians to justice (this may discourage any new government from
           following the mistakes of the pandemic).

6. In summary, the Federal Government
       a.          Procured mass vaccines that were never safe or effective;
        b.         Enabled state premiers to mandate their use;
       c.          Continues to negligently advertise their use; and
       d. Through this enquire seem to want a pat on the back for its efforts when in fact
           criminal prosecution is the appropriate response.
