                                          Port of Melbourne




PORT OF MELBOURNE COVID-19 RESPONSE
SUBMISSION

Contents

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                     2




SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS            2




SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE               4

  Position                            4

  Context                             4




DISRUPTION TO TRANSPORT & FREIGHT     6

  Position                            6

  Context                             6




ECONOMIC IMPACTS & CRITICAL LESSONS   7

  Position                            7

  Context                             8




GOVERNMENT RESPONSE                   9

  Position                            9

  Context                             9



                                                              1
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Port of Melbourne Operations Pty Ltd (PoM) is pleased to make a submission on the 231215
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (Discussion Paper).


Port of Melbourne is Australia's largest container and general cargo port, handling more than one-third of
the nation's container trade. Located among growing communities, vital industrial precincts and transport
corridors - Port of Melbourne has long been a cornerstone of Australia's port freight transport network. The
Port operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.


Freight that travels through the Port of Melbourne supports Victorians, Tasmanians and southern
Australians, every day, everywhere. Common goods such as food, clothing, medical supplies and household
appliances all need to be transported by freight operators. PoM has long advocated and promoted the
importance of freight and logistics to the national economy, and the COVID-19 crisis acutely highlighted the
critical role of the freight and logistics sector.


While Australia's supply chains generally held up well during the COVID-19 pandemic compared to other
jurisdictions, there was no doubt the COVID-19 crisis caused significant stress on all sections of the
Australian logistics and freight industry. The State and Federal Government were put in a difficult situation,
prioritising public health protection and ensuring the continuation of effective economic output and
support. PoM commends the efforts made by both the State and Federal Government (particularly through
the establishment of the National Coordination Mechanism) and acknowledges the lasting strain on our
sector. We must ensure Australia is better prepared for any future pandemic or similar large-scale event.


PoM has provided detailed recommendations to help support the Government future pandemic
preparation. If Australia faces a future health emergency, we need effective policies that will bolster our
supply chain resilience and mitigate the economic impact of disasters. This will ensure public health policies
are fit-for-purpose.


It is within this context that PoM has outlined 15 recommendations to safeguard Australia's freight sector
and support future policy planning and discussions. PoM looks forward to continuing to engage with the
Government on issues relating to health emergency responses and ensure our sector is robust, resilient,
competitive and reliable.



SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS

            Supply Chain Resilience

     1.      Implement the integration of critical port infrastructure in future state and national
             land use and transport planning frameworks. The frameworks should involve
             recognising ports as key assets and ensuring all emergency response frameworks
             prioritise freight, transport, and logistics in their response strategies.




                                                                                                                 2
2.    Improve communication protocols between Government, port authorities and
      other freight stakeholders to ensure freight and logistics sectors can adequately
      prepare and respond to emerging crises.

3.    Encourage the diversification of Australia's supply chain routes and markets.
      Reducing over-reliance on specific markets or channels, mitigating the impact of
      similar global disruptions in the future.

4.    Investigate options for additional warehousing and inventory management
      structures, including increasing storage capacities and adopting flexible inventory
      systems. This could support businesses and ports handle sudden changes in supply
      and demand.
5.    Invest in enhanced digital infrastructure and data analytics capabilities within the
      supply chain sector. Thiswould allow for real-time tracking of goods, better
      prediction of supply chain disruptions, and more efficient response strategies.


6.    Establish stronger partnerships between government bodies and private sector
      stakeholders across the freight supply chain. These partnerships should focus on
      joint planning for crisis scenarios, sharing best practices, and pooling resources for
      common objectives.

      Disruption to Transport and Freight

7.    Develop federal and state frameworks to ensure the freight sector remains a
      priority during crises. These should include protocols for maintaining and enhancing
      freight movement under lockdown conditions, ensuring that essential goods and
      services can be transported without disruption.

8.    Focus investments on transport infrastructure that proved critical to the economy
      during the pandemic. This includes enhancing road and rail connectivity around
      PoM and ensuring these pathways are equipped to handle increased demand
      during emergencies.

9.    Invest in strengthening the resilience of Australia's port infrastructure against
      future emergencies. This includes supporting efforts to handle increased volumes,
      improving dockside logistics capabilities, and ensuring ports have the necessary
      equipment and technology to maintain operations during disruptions.

10.   Prioritise the expansion of port capacity infrastructure projects. This would involve
      building additional storage and processing areas for critical goods, enhancing
      berthing spaces, and ensuring rapid scaling-up of operations in response to
      increased demand during crises.

      Government Response

11.   Coordinate state and federal freight and logistics public health policy protocols.
      Specifically related to cross-border policies, testing and freight protocols, these
      would be aimed at enabling certainty, support and stability for the sector.
12.   Streamline communication so there are designated lines of engagement to the
      freight and logistics sector. Streamlined channels would mitigate the disruption to




                                                                                               3
            crucial trade routes and ensure subsequent congestion does not impact the
            Australian freight sector or economy.

     13.    Ensure National Emergency Management Coordination Response is embedded and
            continuously updated in our national crisis management protocols; this includes
            state and federal bodies maintaining unified approaches to logistics and supply
            chain resilience and developing fit-for-purpose protocols.
     14.    Ensure consistent testing protocols across states and territories to minimise
            disruption to Australia's supply chains.
     15.    If a future health emergency occurs, guarantee freight and supply chain workers
            priority access to vaccinations, testing and other health protections. This would
            minimise the disruption to Australia's supply chains and ensure goods are delivered
            to communities across Australia.




SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCE

Position
To ensure our supply chains remain resilient through future emergency crises, Australia must invest in
meaningful processes, frameworks and collaborations that help our sector minimise disruptions and
congestion for freight. Importantly, when disruptions occur we need to have pre-existing plans to minimal
effect to freight, cargo and transport movements. Ports are a crucial cog in Australia's freight and logistics
pipeline. To remain effective, efficient and competitive, we must have the adaptability to withstand,
recover from and adapt to anticipated and unanticipated disruptions like the COVID-19 pandemic. Key areas
for the Government to focus on are integrating state and federal infrastructure and planning pipelines
(including consideration through mechanisms such as the Urban Policy Forum and contributions from the
Office of Supply Chain Resilience), diversifying logistics routes, advancing technology deployment and
ensuring collaborative stakeholder approaches to emergency crises.



Context
Critical Infrastructure

The Port of Melbourne is fundamental, providing crucial goods across metropolitan and regional Australia.
In light of the COVID-19 Pandemic, learning from the crisis must take an approach that looks at what areas
of our economy are more vulnerable and the main areas we must look to bolster. COVID-19 badly exposed
Australia's emergency response protocols. The impact our sector faced, with significant delays due to
bottlenecks on transport links, especially in our nation's ports as well as congestion due to changing public
policy initiatives should be avoidable in future pandemic scenarios.


It is essential we prioritise national freight infrastructure at the forefront of national and state land use and
planning policies. As a critical infrastructure asset, PoM's approach has consistently aligned with the
Federal Government's strategy to safeguard essential services and infrastructure fundamental to the
nation's well-being, economy, security, and sovereignty. The port's freight supply chain has been critical to
Australia's private and public entities, blending private sector investment with predominantly public
network infrastructure. This ecosystem necessitates industry-wide collaborative coordination to ensure

                                                                                                                 4
operational continuity, facilitating unhindered movement of goods, and minimising the impact of domestic
infrastructure challenges.


PoM's commitment has always been to maintain and enhance our critical infrastructure, ensuring it
remains robust and adaptable to both current demands and future challenges.


However, we need to see improved integrated planning, diversified logistics routes, and improved
collaboration between the government and key freight sector decision-makers. Throughout COVID, we saw
what happened when a lack of communication impacted operations, processes, and communication with
the private, public and community sectors. We need to immediately improve initiatives that enhance our
ports to manage future crises effectively and ensure Australia's national security, economic prosperity and
resilience remain upheld.



Australian Supply Chains

The 2021 interim Productivity Commission Study 2021 Vulnerable Supply Chains study by the Productivity
Commission revealed the significant contribution of imports to Australia's gross national income. This was
approximately 16% or $272 billion in 2016-17. While not all imports are considered equally critical to
Australian industry and national interest, the pandemic demonstrated that seemingly non-essential items
like clothing, masks and stationery items are part of a complex web supporting jobs, income, and
consumption. The Port of Melbourne is an infrastructure asset contributing more than §10.5 billion in
revenue to the Victorian economy and contributing to 28,902 FTE jobs. The significance of this asset to the
economy highlights the potential impact it or the broader supply chain it services become congested.1


COVID-19 underscored the vulnerability of Australia's supply chains. Various restrictions and lockdowns in
international markets and across trade routes led to drastic shifts in cargo movement, warehousing
challenges, and consumer demand. These changes resulted in port congestion and a container equipment
shortage, impacting imports and exports. PoM's response consistently involved collaborative efforts with
industry bodies to ensure adequate capacity across the supply chain and mitigate congestion. For example,
PoM coordinated with industry to source available space within the port and industrial precincts for the
storage and staging of containers to mitigate congestion impacts.


Industry collaboration alone is not enough. We need to see forward-thinking policies that encourage
innovation and adaptability in our sector. Improved resilience will also be bolstered when infrastructure
projects are prioritised around our major trade routes. This would reduce potential bottlenecks, free up
congestion and facilitate opportunities for diversified trade routes if disruptions occur.


We need to ensure investment in inventory structures, digital infrastructure and data analytics capabilities
to plan for and provide efficient responses to disruptions.


Port of Melbourne recommendations:




1 ACIL Allen 2021-22 Economic contribution of the Port of Melbourne


                                                                                                               5
    1.   Implement the integration of critical port infrastructure in future state and national land use and
         transport planning frameworks. The frameworks should involve recognising ports as key assets and
         ensuring all emergency response frameworks prioritise freight, transport, and logistics in their
         response strategies.
    2.   Improve communication protocols between government, port authorities and other freight
         stakeholders to ensure freight and logistics sectors can adequately prepare and respond to
         emerging crises.
    3.   Encourage the diversification of Australia's supply chain routes and markets. Reducing over-reliance
         on specific markets or channels, mitigating the impact of similar global disruptions in the future.
    4.   Investigate options for additional warehousing and inventory management support structures,
         including increasing storage capacities and adopting flexible inventory systems. This could be
         supporting businesses and ports handle sudden changes in supply and demand.
    5.   Invest in enhancing digital infrastructure and data analytics capabilities within the supply chain
         sector. This investment would allow for real-time tracking of goods, better prediction of supply
         chain disruptions, and more efficient response strategies.
    6.   Establish stronger partnerships between government bodies and private sector stakeholders across
         the freight supply chain sector. These partnerships should focus on joint planning for crisis
         scenarios, sharing best practices, and pooling resources for common objectives.



DISRUPTION TO TRANSPORT & FREIGHT

Position
The resilience and efficiency of freight and transport systems are vital for Australia's economy and well­
being. The disruptions caused by COVID-19 underlined the critical importance of maintaining and enhancing
this system. PoM advocates for strengthening infrastructure and operational frameworks that underpin the
transport of goods, ensuring essential commodities continue to move seamlessly across Australia in times of
crisis and ensuring our trade with vital international partners remains robust. This involves investing in both
physical infrastructure and the frameworks that govern operations, prioritising resilience to cater to the
dynamic demands of global trade pressures. This will ensure if a health emergency occurs again we do not
see the same challenges and missteps.

Context
Freight and Transport

The pandemic highlighted our economy's reliance on freight movements and how they sustain the
economy, individual autonomy, public health and business continuity. Throughout this period, freight
services played an important role in providing essential goods, highlighting the need for seamless access to
Port of Melbourne commercial ships, efficient cargo handling and unrestricted land transport and freight.
Continuation of streamlined processes and support for the freight sector is needed to help reduce costs
across various sectors - including, but not limited to, construction, manufacturing, retail, health, agriculture
and oil. These industries rely heavily on ports like Port of Melbourne and their transport connections.


Australia's growing population, domestic and international trade and demand access to ports like Port of
Melbourne is continually increasing. On average, the Port handles approximately 8,000 twenty-foot
equivalent units (TEU) of containers a day, encompassing a wide array of consumer goods and critical




                                                                                                               6
materials. Furthermore, 93.4 per cent of imported containers are destined for metropolitan Melbourne. 1


Robust, prescriptive and forward-looking policies must be implemented to address our sectors and ongoing
challenges. Even without significant health emergencies like COVID-19, Australia's rising population,
escalating global conflict and growing trade movements will stress our existing assets and infrastructure.
Ports around Australia must remain competitive but, most critically - resilient to ensure the nation's
capacity to respond remains effective.


Congestion

The reduced capacity in air freight during the pandemic further highlighted the necessity of keeping our sea
ports operational and, importantly, capable of facilitating increasing demands in trade if another emergency
crisis occurs. The viability of Australia's freight and logistics sector heavily relies on diversification of our
trade routes and rely on long-term planning to ensure the ports meet the demands of a more active and
growing economy.


Australia's whole supply chain is severely impacted when disruption occurs. A lack of investment in road
and rail networks for freight is hampering our supply chain's productivity and burdening the sector. This is
not only evident during crises but also during normal trade operational capacity. As is well documented,
areas surrounding critical ports will continue to grow. We need to see continued investment in the arterial
road and rail network complemented by systems to ensure the best use of the infrastructure, which is
essential for delivering productive and efficient freight transport.


Port of Melbourne's recommendations:

    1.   Develop federal and state frameworks to ensure the freight sector remains a priority during crises.
         These should include protocols for maintaining and enhancing freight movement under lockdown
         conditions, ensuring essential goods and services can be transported without disruption.
    2.   Focus investments on transport infrastructure that proved critical to the economy during the
         pandemic. This includes enhancing road and rail connectivity around PoM and ensuring these
         pathways are equipped to handle increased demand during emergencies.
    3.   Invest in strengthening the resilience of Australia's port infrastructure against future emergencies.
         This includes supporting the funding to handle increased volumes, improving dockside logistic
         capabilities, and ensuring ports have the necessary equipment and technology to maintain
         operations during disruptions.
    4.   Prioritise the expansion of port capacity infrastructure projects. This would involve building
         additional storage and processing areas for critical goods, enhancing berthing spaces, and ensuring
         rapid operations scaling in response to increased demand during crises.



ECONOMIC IMPACTS & CRITICAL LESSONS

Position
COVID-19 had a significant impact on global and regional trade, seen acutely on PoM operations. These
challenges emphasised PoM's roleand more broadly the logistics sector play in the global supply chain.




                                                                                                                    7
PoM's experience can serve as a template of the need for adaptive strategies and resilient infrastructure to
manage significant shifts in global trade dynamics and evolving consumer demand.

Context
Economic Impact and Domestic Trade

When manufacturing and shipping activities in China resumed after the initial COVID-19 restrictions, the
global landscape was shifting as countries began imposing COVID-19 restrictions. This situation led to a
significant influx of imported goods into Australia - these were pre-COVID-19 orders - that coincided with
logistical challenges. Warehouses became congested due to restrictions on the distribution of goods to
retail outlets and end consumers, a result of movement controls implemented by various jurisdictions. In
Victoria, prolonged restrictions compared to other states led to an accumulation of goods in warehouses.
PoM continuously collaborated with industry partners to manage this surge and maintain the smooth
operation of the supply chain. PoM worked closely with the Freight Trade Alliance, Container Transport
Association of Australia, and private operators to expand container storage capabilities, mitigating potential
congestion.


PoM is integral to most of Tasmania's trade. During the pandemic, PoM played a crucial role in ensuring the
continuous supply of essential goods to Tasmania, including groceries, animal feed, and manufacturing
inputs. The pandemic-induced container shortages - a direct response to heightened demand for Asian
goods - led to a significant proportion of empty containers in local markets. This shortage forced many
Tasmanian companies to increase their warehousing space to stockpile higher levels of inventory, thereby
incurring additional costs.


The container supply chain, extending beyond the port to connect various freight corridors, plays a key role
in ensuring the movement of goods to warehouses, distribution centres, and to end-users.


For future crises, it will be essential to safeguard this network against potential supply chain vulnerabilities
and disruptions, and this requires comprehensive consideration and action at all levels of government.


International trade

Ports are important nodes in the supply chain and rely on other supply chain participants to ensure the
smooth movement of cargo. During the pandemic, several contributing factors resulted in significant
disruption to global supply chains. Restrictions on employee movements and interactions resulted in the
delayed vessels as services provided at Ports were negatively impacted. The delayed vessel schedules
effectively removed capacity out of the global shipping market. While capacity was effectively withdrawn
demand materially increased because of consumers requiring more goods whilst they worked from home.
Consumer spending on goods increased due to reduced spending on services, resulting in a significant
increase in shipping rates globally.

Congestion at many ports occurred globally as shipping schedule integrity was compromised and vessel
bunching occurred. This highlighted a lack of infrastructure buffer in many ports.


PoM's congestion challenges during the pandemic emphasised the need for improved port infrastructure
and capacity planning to mitigate congestion and enhance operational capacity.



                                                                                                                   8
The economic implications of these delays were seen through the increases of congestion surcharges.
During that period, surcharges were approximately $471 per TEU.


The increases in costs reflect the direct economic burden of port congestion on cargo owners and the
broader supply chain. PoM's experiencehighlights the need for investment in port infrastructure to mitigate
the flow on effects of supply chain disruptions if they were to occur again. By addressing these capacity
constraints, we can significantly reduce the risk of similar congestion and economic impacts in future crises
- resulting in a more resilient and efficient supply chain for Australia.



GOVERNMENT RESPONSE

Position
Effective government responses and coordination with industry is vital for safeguarding Australia's logistics
and supply chain sectors, especially during health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic. It is
essential to establish procedures that are fit-for-purpose for communication and policy implementation
between the government and key logistics stakeholders, as the PoM. This approach should prioritise the
unique needs of the sector, ensuring it remains functional and resilient, and prioritising transparency and
up-to-date information. By refining our government response strategies, we can not only address the
immediate challenges if emergencies occur but also enhance our long-term preparedness and resilience,
ensuring PoM and its associated supply chains continue to serve as a key pillar of Australia's economy.
Further is the necessity to make sure supply chain logistics workers are prioritised and treated as essential
workers - not just in ability to operate but when gaining access to vaccinations, testing and wellbeing
support.


Context
State and Federal Public Health Response

There are several key learnings from the COVID-19 crisis PoM believes can be improved upon, specifically
relating to communication, policy, engagement and transparency.


At times, announcements regarding lockdowns were made without prior notification to the Port. While we
supported federal and state responses to new challenges during the pandemic, a lack of communication
necessitated last-minute consultations to make public health orders feasible. It placed PoM suppliers,
operators, contractors in the supply chain in a challenging position, forcing them to make instant decisions
on whether road or rail vehicles should cross state borders, risking an inability to return to their home
jurisdiction to continue providing freight services, but importantly be with their families.


The freight and logistics sector relies on certainty, reliability and long-term planning. Even during crises,
maintaining certainty for the freight industry significantly impacts the capacity for goods being delivered
and the associated costs being minimised. To reduce the risk of price increases, scarce goods being
accessible to the public and the crucial delivery of public necessities, we need to see improved transparent
and consistent communication by government to key economic assets like PoM. A lack of coordinated
approaches from state and federal governments was not only disruptive, it also put additional pressure on
all sectors of Australia's freight and logistics supply chain to take initiative even without proper guidance.



                                                                                                                 9
There was notable improvement toward the end of the pandemic. The national cabinet functioned
effectively, providing anticipated Friday updates that were crucial for the public and industry. The
government made efforts consulting ahead of these meetings. The Federal Government needs to heed
learnings from the pandemic, and this leadership starts from the Cabinet. Communication methods that are
transparent with distinct approaches, rationale and risk assessments in decision making will ensure trust
and help sectors like freight and logistics convey to their own stakeholders the rationale for any
disruptions.


To enhance the preparedness for future crises, it is advisable to develop a strategy for communicating
issues to the supply chain sector. This is especially important in situations where government actions or
impositions may disrupt the ordinary operation of the supply chain.


Vaccination and Testing

During the pandemic one of the major challenges to the freight sector was ensuring essential workers had
opportunities to test repeatedly and in a way which not only kept vital industries open but ensured
certainty, predictability, and reliability of our supply chains.


During many periods between 2020-2022 there were differing public health expectations for PoM's
contractors, suppliers and operators. Truck drivers were especially impacted during this period, particularly
relating to cross-border regulations for testing protocols and compliance expectations. The Port is a vital
hub for not only economic outcomes but also serves as a significant driver for freight and logistics support
and serves as a hub of information to the entire supply chain.


There were incidences where PoM members in the supply chain, including those at warehouses and
intermodal facilities, faced impediments to work due to vaccination constraints or challenges accessing
testing facilities.


Despite concerted efforts by the Port and our stakeholders to implement regimes to protect staff and those
engaging with our supply chain, they were ignored during the public health emergency. While not a federal
responsibility, it is important that expectations are conveyed about the necessity and importance of freight
and logistics to the economy and costs of goods and services. The challenge was immense for government
to manage public heath with economic output. It is PoM's hope for a coordinated approach that is
pragmatic, holistic and considers the effect of long-term closures to the economy and flow-on effect to the
well-being of the workforce.


Regrettably, some sophisticated measures put in place by PoM to guard against spread of the COVID-19
were not fully implemented by governments as they did not precisely reflect the requirements of public
health orders. This is a direct result of a lack of clear guidance and expectations with up-to-date
information. State and Federal Governments need to improve communication expectations to key
economic hubs around Australia.


Given the essential nature of the port's role, Port of Melbourne recommends priority access to vaccinations
in the future for freight and logistics workers. The critical role these workers play—such as transporting
groceries from distribution centres to supermarkets—directly impacts public access to essential goods. The


                                                                                                               10
recognition of this essential service would have ensured the smooth operation of the supply chain but also
alleviated the burden of frequent PCR testing, reducing the associated mental health strain.


During the pandemic, testing requirements became a significant challenge for freight, logistics and
transport workers. Drivers crucial to the functioning of the supply chain often had to endure lengthy
queues for testing, impacting their ability to fulfil their duties promptly. Compounding this issue,
roadhouses and other facilities occasionally restricted drivers from using essential services, ordering food,
or taking mandated rest breaks on the premises. While access to rapid antigen tests were out of the
government's direct control, mechanisms to speed up testing protocols for freight and logistics sectors
must be prioritised.


As a proactive measure, PoM recommends freight and supply chain workers should be granted priority
access to vaccinations or other health protections. This approach ensures the uninterrupted operation of
the supply chain, safeguarding both the industry and the broader community.


Port of Melbourne Recommendations

    1.   Coordinate State and Federal freight and logistics public health policy protocols. Specifically related
         to cross-border policies, testing and freight protocols aimed at enabling certainty, support and
         stability for the sector.
    2.   Streamline communication so there are designated lines of engagement to the freight and logistics
         sector. Streamlined channels would mitigate the disruption to crucial trade routes and ensure
         subsequent congestion does not impact the Australian freight sector or economy.
    3.   Ensure National Emergency Management Coordination Response is embedded and continuously
         updated in our national crisis management protocols; this includes state and federal bodies
         maintaining unified approaches to logistics and supply chain resilience and developing fit-for-
         purpose protocols.
    4.   Ensure consistent testing protocols across Australian states and territories to minimise disruption
         to Australia's supply chains.
    5.   If a future health emergency occurs, guarantee freight and supply chain workers gain priority
         access to vaccinations, testing and other health protections. This will minimise the disruption to
         Australia's supply chains and ensure goods are delivered to communities across Australia.




                                                                                                                11
