SUBMISSION: Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response

I submit this as an individual who experienced severe financial hardship through the Australian
Government's covid response. My submission will deal mainly with the non-health responses, both
the roles of the Queensland State Government and Commonwealth Government, and how national
governance arrangements including National Cabinet informed decisions by governments.

I travelled to the United Kingdom in mid-2019 and became stuck there by the decisions of various
world governments, but in my case, specifically due to the Australian Federal Government's actions
to effectively strand citizens wherever they were in overseas locations. Some estimates put the
number of stranded Australians at several hundred thousand people.

The right of return of sovereign citizens of a state is enshrined in international law. The Australian
Government broke this well-known principle in law and subjected its citizens to extreme hardship
and in many cases, despair, mental distress and financial ruin.

 Several "mercy" flights to bring people home were fully filled within 15 minutes of them being
advertised. Failing to secure a flight on these meant I was subject to the further restrictions once the
mandated medical treatment was implemented because citizens of Australia were prevented from
returning unless they submitted to this medical procedure. The alternative was to pay $3,000 to
enter a "quarantine camp" for a fortnight in Queensland, perhaps longer as release after the
fortnight was dependent on a negative test with the well-known flawed PCR test. I will not go into
the science of PCR but am quite aware that this test was inappropriately used to boost the number
of covid cases and contribute to the fear campaign being waged, actively concocted by behavioural
nudge teams working for the government. Eg: The Melbourne Experiment by Monash University - a
study into how the population would behave if the harshest measures and forces of the state were
used against them.

Being trapped in the UK meant I was forced to use my superannuation funds to live in a foreign
country in which my visa had run out but I had no capacity to leave in order to renew the visa
because travel from there and to most other places was restricted. One wonders what use is the
relationship between Commonwealth states if concessions in times of so-called emergencies are not
made. There was no concession made to me from the UK Government and I had to report to the
Immigration Bail Office in West Croydon every two weeks like some kind of criminal.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade offered stranded Australians a "loan" of $2000. I
applied for this twice but was twice refused under specious grounds of not having a P45 ("pink slip")
form from my previous employer (impossible to obtain because I was a casual being employed under
a private arrangement for a disabled person who was no longer allowed to receive visitors, even if
he had been able to give me a P45, which he was not).

The response by the Australian Government and various state governments to restrict the return of
Australian citizens, put those people into a stateless category, subject to the whims and
discrimination of other overseas governments and to severe financial distress. What was the
motivation and purpose of this? Covid is still being reported in 2023 but no longer are these illegal
and draconian policies still in place? Why?

This leads me to stress the importance of releasing the National Cabinet briefings of the Australian
Government and the role of PM Scott Morrison who secretly had himself sworn into five ministerial
portfolios in order to hide the details. The actions of the Australian Government were the actions of
a dictatorial, tyrannical regime which denied the rights and statehood of Australian citizens. This is
the darkest chapter in Australian history, and as someone who was severely financially ruined on the
whims of the Australian Government covid response, which was neither fair, legal or scientific, I find
it shameful.

While I avoided the Queensland                           I have since been a victim of other
"suggested" but enforced mandates rolled out in private and public industry. On job applications
companies still require covid "vaccine" certificates or proof of "vaccination", regardless of the fact
that these shots have proven to be dangerous and ineffective. Why? This disadvantages my
employment prospects and I am suffering from mental despair - diagnosed as moderate to high
anxiety and severe depression.

The Government does not appear to care for those vaccine-injured, or financially ruined by its
responses to covid-19. This is a disgrace and I have lost faith in all levels of government and its
representatives for denying the truth and imposing draconian restrictions on its citizenry.
