Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry.

As there has been no transparency regarding the National Cabinet records it is
impossible to know when States acted unilaterally, and thus what is within the scope
of this Inquiry and what is not.

Will the panel have access to the National Cabinet records? If not, how will they
know if states acted unilaterally? An insurmountable problem is the lack of
transparency. The records should be released to the public so there can be a
substantive inquiry. The only way to do a “whole-of-government review is to
consider state responses in relation to the National Cabinet records.

I am a category 5 in Daniel Andrew’s caste system.

How did I come to be one of this despised group?

Ten years as a member on an eminent Medical Research and Ethics Committee that
approved pharmaceutical products for human testing gave me a heathy scepticism
of warp speed production and approval for an experimental and novel
pharmaceutica^roduc^On^bm^jniversit^riend^ived with serious disabilities
due to                                                     A cautionary example. I
did not take the experimental therapeutic and thus, due to the mandates, lost my two
positions of employment and experienced what it is to be a social pariah. No one
should be forced to take an experimental pharmaceutical product: absolutely not, in
a free and democratic society.

I have an Arts Degree majoring in psychology and sociology, Social Work degree,
Theology degree and Masters in Spirituality. Based on my studies, it was obvious
that lockdowns would be disastrous as humans struggle to survive, let alone flourish,
in isolation, cut off from all that gives them meaning in life and a sense of connection.
Zoom does not cut it! There is a wealth of archived research which shouts these
truths. Available to anyone with curiosity. Decline in mental health for adolescents
was predictable. Decline in learning for school children was predictable. Decline in
communication skills for pre-schoolers was predictable. It was all predictable based
on the preexisting academic body of knowledge. My mother died due to the stress of
lockdown. She could not do another long lockdown and died during the Valentine’s
lockdown in Victoria. I was cut off from most of my family as they lived beyond the
“ring of steel”. House arrest is punishment for criminals. It not the way to treat
citizens and tax-payers.

Why was no cost benefit analysis done regarding lockdowns? The Inquiry in
England is bringing to light the fact that lockdowns damaged more lives than were
saved, in a futile attempt to hide from an airborne virus. Why did the government not
take a stance of calming Australians as their governments had responsibly done
during previous pandemics? Why did the government abandon the established
science and experience based pandemic plans that had served Australian society so
well in the past? Why was a myopic single criterion used for decision-making? The
health of individuals and human society are more complex than one single concern
of crushing the virus, a virus that was known to be of concern primarily for elderly
people with several comorbidities. It was startling during the height of the panic to
observe the average age of death from covid was older than the average age of
death.

Conflicts of interest must be recognised and where there is conflict of interest
individuals must not be given decision-making responsibility. If the tobacco industry
provided 96% of the funding for the Anticancer Council who would take them
seriously? The pharmaceutical regulators are too intertwined with the industry they
regulate. This, in the most innocuous form can lead to group think, but less
innocuous is the possibility of incentivized decision-making corrupting science and
putting the public at risk. Why did the TGA not review the documents from Pfizer?

I never want, for myself, for my children and grandchildren and for all Australians to
live again in a police state, with mandatory house arrest for all, papers please
disclosure of private medical information.

Serious damage was done to the health services in this country through the Covid-
19 pandemic response. The mandates led to huge loss of medical, allied health and
administration staff in the hospital at which I was employed prior to the mandates. A
health approach that guts the health care system is utterly ridiculous.

More systematic and articulate responses are offered by both
                                           and I agree with the content of their
submissions.
