Since the pandemic, I have met and talked with dozens and dozens of people in
my community who had a similar experience to myself. So I feel compelled to
share mine.

I have in the                                                        studies with
various organisations, who all take a holistic approach to health.

I am not an anti-vaxxer, my children are fully vaccinated.

Part of my studies however followed the commercial interests of vaccine
companies and the persuasive tactics and deals done behind closed doors with
large associations, and it appears governments around the world.

Luckily early in the pandemic my^^^^^^^^HGeneral Practitioner
       advised me that the vaccine was NOT safe, NOR effective. So I chose to stay
home and exercise with my family during the lockdown. I explored other more
effective vaccine options and was in the trial for Dr Nicoli Petrovsky’s vaccine.
The government regulating bodies put his work to bed, despite his pre pandemic
fame, and more recently also receiving awards. It can only be assumed it was not
commercially viable for the government to engage with his ground breaking
vaccine work ??

In disbelief I watched as                                     coerced the
general public via TV commercials to "get the vaccine". While governments
covered childrens plagrounds and advised people to "stay home"

The 2nd most important aspect to GOOD HEALTH after sleep, is Movement.
My health declined during the lockdown as did most of the people around me -
BIG MISTAKE TO encourage no movement and close gyms and Yoga studios.

Under the guidance of my doctor I had covid once and recovered very quickly.
All of my triple vaccinated friends have had covid twice and sometimes 3 times.

It became obvious very quickly that the government were receiving their health
advice from global vaccine companies and their marketing departments - which
only pushed open minded people to search further for doctors and health
professionals who were willing to speak up against the corruption despite the
threats from AHPRA. It wasn’t hard to find the truth.

Meanwhile people like myself who were not willing to follow the sheep in FEAR
were ostracised from the community. Until of course people started to realise
that the vaccine was doing NOTHING other than making shareholders happy.

Appalling, disgraceful treatment for people who actually have an idea how to
take care of their own health. The government need to be transparent about
where the funds came from during the pandemic and cut ties with global vaccine
companies. They have actually woken a large portion of society up to their
         Because their vaccine certainly did not eradicate the disease ???
