Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Prepared by                     15 December 2023




This is a brief personal submission, submitted in memory of                        A
vibrantMyear old woman, an entertainer, an artist, a humanitarian, a person to
love. ^^|was killed by the^^^^^^Mvaccine. Family and friends will never
recover from this needless death.


It addresses three of the terms of reference.


   •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,
       responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance
       mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
       and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
       bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.


ATAGI, the key committee advising on the roll out of the vaccines was pressured
through Prime Minister Morrison’s press conference (June 2021) to change its
advice in respect of the limitations that were to be applied to the use of the
vaccine. This action led^^|to believe that the vaccine was safe for her. What were
Morrison’s reasons for applying this pressure? Because his government thought one
vaccine deal was sufficient? We must never see Australia is such a situation again
where a politician takes it upon themself to pressure an independent health advisory
committee.



   •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
       and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
       quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).


For^^J, there was very little risk that Covid would kill her. The^B vaccine on the
other hand was being dropped like a hot potato by countries across the world in first
half 2021. It was definitely known to be a risk for younger women in particular. The
question must be asked, why did Australia’s key health advisors not pay heed to the
experts in these other countries? It would seem because the government put all its
eggs in the^H basket and no other option. Why did it do this? Who decided to do
this? Why was the public health messaging to younger people urging them to get
vaccinated? The risk benefit balance was simply not there for younger people with a
flawed vaccine like ■.
   •   International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including
       with regard to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply
       deals with international partners for domestic use in Australia).

The failure of the Health Minister to secure a timely wide ranging choice of vaccines
for Australia was well publicised in 2021. This failure, and the consequential pressure
that the federal government found itself under, in my view led to the deeply
regrettable decision by ATAGI to buckle under the PM’s pressure and change the
health advice in respect of^|and younger people in mid 2021. It was a costly
decision.


What are we to do as a family? Government failure normally does not wreak such
devastation. We are heartbroken and fractured in so many ways because of it.


After her first dose oftragically passed away on^^^^l
       aged^H resident              from VITTS - vaccine induced
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome, confirmed without doubt by the doctors
treating her at the time                   Hospital.

Thank you for conducting this inquiry. We hope that it will leave us all better off than
we were in 2020.

We would like you to get to know^^H
