Hi,

My name is Daniel. I am an Army veteran where I was fortunate enough to represent this country
in Afghanistan during my active service as well as privately in the capital of Kabul (Afghanistan). I
am also writing on behalf of both my immediate and extended family. However some of the
information in this letter is based purely on my experience.

I will be talking about the key health response measures (for example across COVID-19
vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

The 3 key points I would like to voice are lockdowns in general (treatment - lockdowns: treating
everyone as though they were contagious) and personal protective equipment (masks
specifically).




Lockdowns

Issue

They were portrayed as the best tool at the time to save lives by stopping the spread of COVID.
However, they have since been proven to cause more harm than good because they may have
saved x% of certain people from contracting the virus, but they caused an increase of x% + y% in
things like suicide and deaths due to not receiving lifesaving medical treatments or from financial
stress..

The lockdows have also been the sole cause of many Australian families losing their livelihoods
due to not being able to travel for work or from people not being able to visit their businesses. This
in turn has disrupted the supply chains both in Australia and the rest of the world which has lead
to record inflation and the middle class Australians being subject to extreme financial hardship. I
have spoken to many families that have had to sell their homes due to increased interest rates,
which the Government said wouldn’t happen, as well as the increase in the cost of living, which
the Government also said wouldn’t happen.

References

Professor Steve Hanke Meta Analysis of the Effects of Lockdowns on CQVID-19 Mortality

Lockdowns Could Kill More People Than CQVID-19




Personal Protective Equipment

Issue

The ineffective use of masks as a whole as well as how they were implemented made no logical
sense. For example: You needed to wear a mask walking into a restaurant, yet when you sat down
you could take it off to eat, but then you had to wear it again if you got up. You can argue that
wearing the mask reduces the window of possible infection yet when at a restaurant you spend
the majority of your time eating and drinking, meaning the mask is mostly off anyway.
The potential drawbacks outweigh any perceived benefits. The act of rebreathing exhaled air,
especially with tight-fitting masks, leads to a decrease in oxygen saturation, particularly for
individuals with pre-existing respiratory conditions. This lack of oxygen could induce headaches,
dizziness, and fatigue, negatively impacting well-being and potentially exacerbating underlying
health issues, not to mention the decrease in cognitive ability. Additionally, the accumulation of
exhaled toxins, primarily carbon dioxide, within the mask was a breeding ground for bacteria and
could further contribute to health risks if re-inhaled over extended periods, which were forced on
people both inside and outside the healthcare setting.

It would have been better to allow people the choice to either wear masks or to freely breathe
fresh air.

References

Physical interventions to interrupt or reduce the spread of respiratory viruses

Higher Incidence of CQVID-19 Found Among Consistent Mask-Wearers: Study




How is it that we’re not questioning the actions taken by the state Governments? This submission
is a farce, you’re basically asking “how could we do better at the things we did?”. Instead you
should be asking, “what should we have done or not done?” because the answer is you shouldn’t
have done everything that you did. You should be held to account on what you have done to this
country over the last few years.

Thank you for the time it took to read this.

Daniel.
         08:28 0 Q                                                                                            84% ■


      <—                       Post


       1)              dystopiandownunder

Unborn twin baby dies after                                                   Mystery of the 1552 con^nr
                                                                              conduct' claims our
delay approving mother's                                                      refuses to talk about
Queensland-NSW border                                                         POLITICS

                                                                              Queensland Premier Annasiacia Palaszcz.uk has
exemption                                                                     refused to speak about a report showing public
                                                                              servants made more than 1550 disclosures about
                                                                           ,, corrupt conduct in a year.
Case prompts Queensland's chief health ofneer to call
the sheer volume of medical applications
'unsustainable'                          Man dies in caravan park after
                                                               waiting months to cross
'Only for our people': Queensland's                            Queensland border
premier is blasted for her 'astonishing'
comments after a new mum nearly lost                           The 78-year-old ma n reportedly applied for a border
                                                               exemption in early November and had then cancelled
her unborn twins because she was                               his request
forced to fly from the border to Sydney
for emergency surgery           Fury as family who drove i,oookm from
                                a town with NO coronavirus cases to say
By Kelsey Wilkie and Tita Smith For Daily Mail Australia
04:0219 Aug 2020. updated 06:21 28 Aug 2020
                                goodbye to their dying grandma, 101,
 Queensland Health DENIES       are turned back at Queensland border
                                and told their exemption passes had
 son one last chance to see his expired
 dying father before it's too
 late
                                                                Humiliation for Annastacia Palaszczuk
 Mark Kilian flew to Australia after being                      as underling announces her
 granted travel exemptions by Border Force                      $200MILLI0N Covid quarantine
 and NSW Health. Now he's trapped in                            facility will be SCRAPPED despite
 Sydney as time runs out.                                       exorbitant price tag - just months after
                                                                it opened
 Hamish Goodall / Updated 17.06.2Q2t



 Annastacia Palaszczuk is blasted over                     Dying Queensland man's
 FALSE claims 2,240 will die every
 MONTH if Australia opens up after 70%
 vaccination rate - as doctors debunks
                                                           family unable to say goodbye
 her bizarre reason for refusing to open
 Queensland's border
                                                           due to border lockdown

      Q Q V                                                      •
                  Liked by ryan_williams77 and others
     dystopiandownunder One more for the memories.
     Heartless.... more
     View all 22 comments
     9 hours ago
