Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry terms of reference

    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
        key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
        health messaging).

I am a retired citizen living in^^^^^Mand believe that the pandemic was a "pandemic that we
did not have to have". I came to this conclusion by listening to and reading commentary over the
last 3 years by truly independent and eminent health professors, doctors and journalists who reside
in Australia and all over the world. I do not say "independent" lightly. What I mean by independent
are professionals who are in no way financially influenced by large pharmaceutical companies that
are located overseas. I did also listen to main stream public TV over that time but found the news to
be non informative and frankly dishonest.

The advice given to government by Australia's health authorities appears to me to have been
unfairly in favour of overseas pharmaceutical companies. I can only wonder why that is. Were the
health authorities reliant on funding they receive from these overseas companies for their research,
job opportunities or viability of their organization? Why did the government not seek "independent"
advice as the advice of all "independent" eminent health professionals was ignored. Were the
Liberal and Labor parties inclined to "just follow the orders" of their health authorities so as not to
jeopardise the political donations they may receive from these overseas firms, or was it politically
expedient to just follow their advice?

Treatments
It is evident to me that there were treatments available for COVID19 before any vaccinations were
available - to name a few:
Ivermectin - Refer to a study done by Monash University in April 2020 on this out of patent drug and
numerous "independent" research done since. Plus its use in other countries particularly in the
Indian State of Uttar Pradesh.
Hydroxychloroquine
Vitamin D
COVID-19 vaccines
I note that an Australian firm "Vaxine" had a protein based vaccine researched in 2020 which is
formulated using traditional safe and effective vaccine technology that I believe most Australians
would have found acceptable to take. They were totally ignored and their COVID-19 vaccine is now
used safe and effectively in the middle east, but not in Australia?

My recommendations for better outcomes for the next pandemic:
1. Employment in any Commonwealth health agency that gives advice to government. Restrict
employees from obtaining a position in an overseas funded pharmaceutical company for 5 years
after their employment ends.
2. Outlaw political donations from overseas pharmaceutical companies.
3. As well as seeking advice from Commonwealth health authorities, the government should set up a
truly "independent" body of eminent health professionals to examine all possible treatments and
make recommendations to government.
4. Vaccines should not be limited to new mRNA technology that had never previously been used.
Instead vaccines to be made available should also include vaccines derived from traditional vaccine
technology, and qualified Australian firms should be favoured over overseas firms.
