10/12/2023



My name is Tanya. I am a mother ofjteens, work in early childhood, and live in^^^^^H a long time ago


I completed my Bachelor of Early Learning in February 2022, and had been looking forward to my role as the 3
year old teacher in 2022, after years of juggling work, study and family.

For the 18 months or so prior, since March 2020 I have been comfortable working in my kindergarten
environment, having been assured it was low risk at all times, and I never feared for my health. I rarely get
sick, and haven't once had the flu.

Then seemingly overnight everything changed with my work being deemed high risk, and vaccination became
mandated. The effect was crippling on me. I received email after email over the holidays from the DET and
ELAA, and waited with bated breath for the kindergarten president to email me directly, fearing what he
would say. I cried every day and became totally erratic, distracted, unable to focus on my everyday
responsibilities, and feeling physically ill as I tried to comprehend what this meant for me or my family. My
husband didn't want to be vaccinated, but felt he needed to as feared we would not be able to access bare
necessities.

As I dealt with my study, and my children's mental health struggles after lengthy lockdowns, I did not have
time to consider vaccination for myself, and immediately felt coerced and pressured, with the 'no jab, no job'
mandate forced on me, leaving me unable to make a decision in relation to my own body. The prospect of
being unable to provide for my family and pursue the career I had dedicated my time to over the past 5 years
left me fearful. I sought my doctor's advice but rather than being provided with factual information, he asked
why I wasn't scared of Covid, and suggested I just get the vaccine as my environment had always been high
risk, but the government didn't want to scare me whilst a vaccine was not yet available, leaving me feeling
belittled and further paralysed from making any decision for myself. At this stage I had not discovered APHRA
had silenced our medical professionals, who would have thought such a thing would occur when we should
have autonomy over our own body, especially in a free country like Australia.

Previously very emotionally stable and a strong, capable mother this has left me completely irrational on a
daily basis, sobbing uncontrollably, cursing angrily, feeling disconnected, as though everything around me has
collapsed but no one has even noticed. I feel exhausted, hopeless, and unable to emotionally support my
children, due to the overwhelming sense there is no future for them. I have for the first time in my life sought
support for my own mental health.

I was then stood down from my much-loved role without pay. My workplace immediately denied me a risk
management assessment so I felt they were disregarding my health and safety, and I felt threatened as it was
stated my position could not be held open indefinitely. I was devastated to not return to kinder that year to
support the 3-year-old children to whom I committed my year to ensuring their routine and a safety, with the
ludicrous thought it is now I that pose a threat to them. Our financial situation was negatively impacted, and
extreme pressure placed on my relationship with my husband to provide for a family of 5, with my children
reluctant to enter any workforce with current mandates too, given the low risk Covid poses to them along with
the lack of long term data.

This pressure soon became too much and I attended a chemist, where I refused to give consent on paper, and
had it clearly marked on my arm that I did not consent. The chemist proceeded to administer the experimental
vaccine, unable to give me any long term data, and so seeing me unable to give valid consent. My health then
deteriorated, and a doctor visit saw me sent to emergency with concerns that I could have a clot, something
that was later confirmed as a side effect from the AZ vaccine. Thankfully no clot was found, but high blood
pressure and a high d dimer continued to see me undergo many tests and scans. As someone who had no
health issues prior making me take part in the vaccination program was an utter waste of our medical
resources.

Time went on, my medical journey continued, and I was permitted t return to work with an exemption. A
ridiculous situation where my circumstances in relation to my vaccination status were not different but I was
suddenly not a risk to others. Sadly my children's schooling didn't continue with 2 of them failing to reengage
in the schooling system, and walking away without even achieving year 10 passes.

Threats of job loss returned a few months later as my exemption was due to expire, then just as suddenly as
the wind changes the rules changed, and I was permitted to work the remainder of the year, unvaccinated.
Then another shift, as management changed, seeing me loss my job as we entered 2023, due to my
vaccination status, despite my health issues still being unresolved.

I'm grateful mid 2023 I was able to undergo surgery which saw my blood pressure resolved, where many still
continue to be discriminated against and unable to access and benefit from full medical care.

I'm also grateful to be back teaching children as I always wanted to, in a workplace where my medical
information has remained private and confidential, as it always should have. Sadly many are still locked out of
their workplaces, such as the medical professions, mandated for at least 3, for no sound reason, and still not
able to work in Victoria for taking a stand.

The handling of the COVID pandemic was a disgrace. So much pain, discrimination, coercion, financial damage,
and much more. The segregation still continues, as do the new illnesses, and high excess deaths, completely
unexplained. For a country hell bent on one covid death being too many, the silence now is astounding. Most
happily state the number of times they've had covid, despite their vaccination, and boosters, not even
stopping to consider how our government destroyed every freedom we had for 2 years in a brutal and useless
attempt to stop it. The government should be ashamed of the fear mongering, and the damage done. They
should be held accountable for the poor decisions, the majority of which were in no way founded in 'science'
as was the cloak they used to hide behind. Safeguards should be in place to protect the everyday Australian
from ever facing such draconic measures ever again.

Specifically addressing the terms of reference I believe -

    •    Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and
         territory governments, and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19 saw complete over
         reach. Personal rights were crushed as governments stated their actions were for the greater good.
         The handling of the commission buildings alone, shutting them down with no notice, and no regard
         for the vulnerabilities of residents, was against human rights.

    •    Key health response measures were knee jerk, over the top reactions, with no solid medical evidence
         to support them. Rolling out forced experimental vaccinations goes against medical practices, and
         patient choice was removed, with options such as ivermectin banned (and since permitted again).
         Public health messaging was nothing short of propaganda.

    •    Mental health wasn't factored in for even a moment with lockdowns severely impacting mental
         health. As a mother with teens having them locked in the house, unable to be with peers, was nothing
         short of criminal. We have enough understanding of teens to know the importance of peer
         interactions, and schools should have never been closed, with COVID never posing a serious risk to
         that age bracket.

    •    Our right to movement was stripped, through international border closures, seeing inhuman
         behaviours such as family being denied the right to farewell dying loved ones. (As non-covid deaths
         didn't pause through the pandemic)

         Financial support for individuals saw many profit from the pandemic, and others suffer. The
         inequalities were ridiculous and could have been easily prevented by not forcing lockdowns, that
         allowed some businesses to trade and others forced to close.
        In summary the handling of the pandemic was horrific. I can't even fathom having to be in this
        country and live through such a horrendous governmental crime again.




Tanya Millar
