Please find following my submission for a Federal Covid Enquiry.

Firstly, we need a royal commission into the handling of the covid crisis in Australia. An "enquiry" is
not nearly enough, nor will it thrash out what failed and who bears responsibility.

The management of the Covid-19 pandemic in Australia has been completely mishandled with high
levels of poor decision making from beginning to end. What we have ended up with is an overblown
budget and small businesses having to foreclose and therefore rupturing the savings of hard-working
Australians. The closing of these businesses was allowed to happen on our governments watch while
big corporations continued to operate (accruing huge profits) throughout the lockdown period.
Proof that lockdowns don't work is clear when one looks at Sweden's approach which had no
lockdowns and no negative affects upon its populace as a result.
The Australian Government oversaw the stockpiling of vaccinations in huge numbers that were
ultimately disposed of due to lack of uptake by the Australian public and excessive over-ordering by
health officials. Australian taxes paid for these vaccinations and their ordering, which was
completely mismanaged and resulted in huge expenditure for what ended up being biological waste.
Inadequate masks were additionally ordered by the Australian Government which also ended up in
landfill resulting in funding deficits and unnecessary waste. They purchased over 255 million doses
which is enough for 10 per person. We are only up to 5 currently with uptake diminishing - the rest
look like they will be binned or have already been disposed of as indicated above.

Children were taken out of school, forced to wear masks, and separated from their peers. The result
has been high suicide rates in our youth, overloading of mental health support services to try to
assist these youth, massive trauma and plummeting mental health as well as children that have been
deprived of facial expression to support their cognitive development. This is an outrageous outcome
for an age group that had virtually no threat from the covid disease.
Separation of families who could not even visit their loved ones in their final hours cannot be
forgiven. Limiting the numbers of attendees at funerals and stopping families and friends spending
time together has ended up with a stressed and defeated community. This separation as well as the
stress exerted on all levels of society has also resulted in high level of suicide at all ages as well as
dependencies accelerating in illicit drugs, prescription drugs and alcohol addiction.

Forced PCR testing, which was seen as the definitive indicator of sickness, has now been admitted to
not even being effective at distinguishing between Covid-19 and the seasonal flu by the US Centre
for Disease Control (CDC). So, what was the panic about? Everything has been a massive display of
incompetence by all layers of government.

Mask mandates. The science is in. Masks don't work. They are completely ineffective at preventing
spread of disease.

Australia had a failed vaccination program which has been proven to be costly to the Australian
public with over supply and gross wastage of unused product. But more importantly completely
useless. The mantra of 'Safe and Effective' relegated to the dustbin of history, as none of the
pharmaceutical companies provided a product fit for purpose.^^^^ias even admitted that they did
not test the product for effectiveness at preventing transmission of Covid-19 prior to distribution to
the public. They also tried to hide their initial documentation and testing for 75 years but a FOIA
request in the USA allowed this data to be viewed by the public. This is the very data the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) would have been privy to before releasing this injection to the
Australian public. Poor outcomes for the vaccinated as shown in this data should have been a red
flag to these regulators but they ignored these safety signals and released the injection anyway. This
however is not surprising given this 'regulator' is almost totally funded by the Pharmaceutical
industry. How can they remain measured and impartial. I have worked for government for the past
16 years and I am not allowed to even receive a small gift from clients as this may sway my favour
towards them. How is it then that the TGA is to remain impartial when 95% of their funding comes
from these companies? This in itself makes no sense and is a complete disgrace.

The current increase in excess deaths in Australia is reflected in many other highly vaccinated
countries. This is however being ignored by the Australian Government and it is business as usual
with pushing of more of these vaccines that do not work. Pretending that this is not happening is a
short term strategy as this will come back to the Australian Government and will have to be dealt
with in the future. There are many very sick people who need support and who did what they
thought was the right thing. They are now suffering the consequences. I myself lost my
4 days after his 3rd shot - I will never forgive the Australian Government for this. I also lost a
vaccinated^^^lwho died in her sleep at only^^^^^^^^H I have never known this to happen
before in my lifetime.

I personally feel that my human rights have been grossly violated at every level and from beginning
to end of this whole debacle. From unnecessary lockdowns, forced mask wearing, prevention of
visiting family in hospital, restrictions on entering stores, vaccination mandates, existing therapies
being banned from my use, my medical professionals being hamstrung and silenced by the TGA and
APHRA and restricting/banning cross border travel. All of these were an over-reach as well as at
most times illegal or unlawful.

Violations of the Australian Government have also been an egregious overreach of authority. This
has ranged from releasing this request for submissions with limited time and in the weeks leading up
to Christmas when everyone is busy. This obviously has been to receive minimal submissions overall
and truncated submissions due to the limited time people can spend on their responses. Further
violations include:

    •   Refusing citizens to return home at a time of crisis is in itself a terrible breach of faith in
        what it means to be a citizen and erosion of trust that our government is representing our
        best interests.
    •   The National Cabinet combining the executive branches of State and Federal Governments
        which undermines the rule of law and is unconstitutional.
    •   Implementing pandemic responses in line with global determinations and ignoring an
        established pandemic response written for the Australian country and its people.
    •   The National Cabinet operating in secrecy and not releasing minutes. This crushes public
        trust and deteriorates faith that the process is fair and for the people.
    •   The Prime Minister giving himself multiple Ministerial roles with no objections raised by any
        individual (including the Governor General) erodes the faith that power across multiple
        individuals should have been defended rather than all power and decision making coming
        under one person.
    •   The public having to watch the charade as the Prime Minister of our country stood back and
        claimed he had no power to control the actions of the states. It was farcical.
    •   The banning of alternative treatments to Covid-19 such as Ivermectin. This was derided as
        horse paste even though the inventors won a Nobel Prize and it has been safely used by
        millions of people for decades. It is now listed as a safe treatment for Covid-19 on the CDC
        website.
    •   The government clearly aiding and condoning APHRA's powers to harass and deregister
        doctors who did not agree with the stated government mantra towards the vaccinations as
        'Safe and Effective.' There should be a separation of power between government and
        doctors so that they can make informed and unbiased decision on behalf of their patients.
    •   The Federal Government ignoring the excess deaths in Australia clearly detailed by the
        Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). This is further supported across multiple highly
        vaccinated countries and warrants a halt to the Covid-19 vaccinations and investigation into
        why this is occurring and what is causing it.
    •   To date Australia has spent over $18 billion on Covid-19 vaccines and treatment. That's
        around $1,200 taken from every taxpaying Australian citizen and going straight to big
        pharma.
    •   The Federal Government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation such as:
        two Bills here (that failed to pass)
Lastly, no government in Australia, both State and Federal, should ever be allowed to mandate
medical procedures. This is a violation of human rights and individual bodily autonomy no matter
what the particulars of the case. The believed safety, effectiveness, or necessity of the intervention
is utterly irrelevant. When it comes to medicine, you get consent or you don't do it, and no
exceptions should be allowed or accepted. As Greg Hunt stated "The world is engaged in the largest
clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever." How anyone can't see how terrifying that
statement is baffles me especially without informed consent. This violates the Nuremberg Trial and
the Helsinki Declaration and should never be allowed to happen again.



Thankyou
