SUBMISSION AND EVIDENCE TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE DELIBERATIONS



TO WHOM THIS MAY CONCERN
My name is Mark Robert Treloar (age 64 years) and I consider that my life has been significantly and
permanently altered due to the Federal Government’s unnecessarily impulsive response to the Covid-19
health situation.
I was employed mainly as a Mathematics teacher at an independent secondary school Temple Christian
College (located in an inner-city suburb of Adelaide) from 1985 to 2021. From 1992 to 2020 I was also
the Mathematics Coordinator at TCC.
In Term 4 of 2021 the key points of a covid vaccination mandate were communicated from the
Commissioner of Police to all staff via the Principal of our school. This occurred on November 16. Due
to my considerable hesitancy in undertaking this vaccination (and consequential non-compliance with
this hasty command) by a given deadline of Friday, 10 December 2021 I was immediately terminated
from my position on this day. Thirty-seven years of loyal service seemed to count for nought. Thirteen
other staff (mainly teachers) shared this experience of being summarily dismissed from Temple Christian
College!
I earnestly consider that my school’s principal decision to terminate a group of vaccine hesitant teachers
was tacitly encouraged by the statements and perceived attitudes of persons having authority in both our
National Government and South Australian Government. At no time did the principal compassionately
consult employees reluctant to receive an unproven medical treatment having an over-inflated
effectiveness that was based upon a trial where the participants for the control and treatment groups were
chosen to ensure that the efficacy (different to the effectiveness) of the “vaccine” reached an optimal
value. He seemed unwilling to become informed of our individual health situations yet regarded that our
“current vaccination status” was paramount to maintaining the welfare of others in our school
community.
Here are some other points worthy of careful and even further scrutiny by any impartial and “truth
seeking for its own sake and not for personal kudos nor organisation convenience” members:
• ^^^^^His also a teacher employed by DECS in different state government primary schools. In the
   tenth week of Term 1 in 2022 she (even though unvaccinated against a potentially rampaging and
   deadly coronavirus) was permitted to return to all teaching duties that she had performed in recent
   years!
   However, both the federal and state governments allowed non-govemment schools to pursue their
   own extreme views (and resultant poli cies) of the importance of vaccination mandates - provided
   these philosophies and actions were supporting the national fight against any annoying vaccine
   hesitancy!
   The clear lack of evidence that has increased with time that the “covid vaccines” were never
   carefully tested to acknowledge their effectiveness in preventing transmission and infection was
   never underlined by our governing health authorities!! Continually it seemed that whatever was not
   conveniently supporting the ongoing “must keep the lemmings under control” narrative - even
   though it was true data or important information - was swept under the carpet or ridiculed in some
   way. This contradicted what my former employer wrote during the Fair Work Commission case as
   his response to a claim of “unfair dismissal” on 27 January, 2022 and this principle was still being
   upheld when other schools around Australia were allowing staff to resume employment duties
   carried out on site: ‘An order to reinstate the applicant or compensate him for failing to be
                                                   -2-

   vaccinated as per the Direction, would condone a blatant disregard of the South Australian
   Government’s emergency response to COVID-19 and further, it would condone improper
   safety practices in a school setting, putting the safety of students, staff and the wider South
   Australian community at serious risk of harm.’
   If the “health injections” were never intended to stop the transmission of the “disease” but their
   testing confirmed that their sole benefit would be to reduce the contents of a “basket of symptoms”,
   then the above highlighted section should be called for the misinformation that it is!
   Should lies still be propagated and supported - even in a pandemic and when citizens are ordered to
   submit themselves to all facets of an “emergency direction” on a daily basis?
• Following the previous point, a worthy implementation of a full and sincere analysis of the Covid-19
   Response must include a recognition of the plethora of covid misinformation over the last four years
   blurted out by our politicians and slavishly echoed by most of our media outlets! If proposed
   legislation concentrating on misinformation and disinformation is on the table for our present
   government, why not cl arify definitions of these two terms by using the events in the “covid circus”
   to help this cause!
   At present, five other ex-employees of TCC and myself are still waiting a result to the 3-day hearing
   (versus our school/principal) we had at the South Australian Employment Tribunal some 22 weeks
   ago! Of great interest was a comment that the magistrate made to the barrister representing our
   previous school and Principal at the “Closing Addresses Hearing”. She reminded the barrister that
   the email advice our Principal given by AISSA (The Association of Independent Schools of South
   Australia) concerning “summary dismissal” was “clearly wrong”! AISSA, in their haste to inform
   leaders of independent schools what the vaccine mandate was saying, misinterpreted it.
   Yet, shortly afterwards, when the magistrate was addressing my ex-TCC colleague       she
   amazingly said:          your school Principal was given and followed a clearly false
   interpretation of the Vaccine Mandate but this does not help you in strengthening your
   case’” ?????????????
   Our Principal “overwhelmingly took the advice he was given by AISSA”. Why? It was more
   convenient to him (removing staff who may be inclined to ask important questions) and would be
   more prosperous for the school - replacing many of us with younger and therefore “cheaper”
   teachers. He never desired to seek any alternative advice, nor did he bother himself and refer to the
   national employment standards in the Fair Work Act.


CONCLUSION
If this Covid-19 Response Event (can it be called a commission??) is to be run by people content to run
it in a similar rushed and superficial manner that our school Principal adopted in 2021 then it may be
another political success - but some of us are fed up with the deceptive platitudes of politics and
especially public health slogans to keep many folk trapped in unnecessary fear! We need the truth -
and how can we have it if we do not love it!!!



And Jesus answered and said to them: "Take heed that no one deceives you".


"....because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved".
