Ona Klova




13 December 2023


Submission to the Covid Inquiry

I have a concern with the fact that this Covid Inquiry excludes all state actions. The actions
of the States were supported and paid for by the Federal Government and the States and
Federal Government together are the Commonwealth of Australia. These were all
responsible for ensuring vaccine mandates, state border closures, lockdowns, quarantine
rules and check-in requirements were put in place.

I also have a concern with the submission window of one week in a period before Christmas.
The Inquiry seems to be an appeasement to the Australian population to show something is
being done.

   1.       Misuse of Power

Governments exercised power that was not given to them by their people. They used this
power to violate and coerce the population into accepting unsafe and ineffective vaccinations
and to implement practices which destroyed local economies.

The National Cabinet met in secrecy, had only a few members and used their power to avoid
any challenge or scrutiny. The public and respected others had no input into decisions
which were fed through the State Health Ministers and CHOs to sing from the same
hymnbook with no opportunity to challenge their actions.

The National Cabinet was set up to bypass the usual checks and balances of our system. It
met in secrecy and allowed the group of people who sat on it, total power which was both
unprecedented and undemocratic. The information went from the Cabinet to the Health
Ministers and CHOs without input from experts, the public, even other Government ministers
and appointed members of parliament. The minutes of this Cabinet have not yet been
released. Everyone except these few people were excluded from discussions and decisions
that would affect their lives, including the lives of future generations.

The PM gave himself a number of ministerial positions, which was unprecedented and was
not even made public or advised to his own party. This was illegal, unconstitutional and
should never have happened in a functioning democracy.

   2.       Misuse of Money

Clearly the Government knew the vaccines did not work as advised. When one shot was all
that was required, they bought 8 doses for every person in Australia. Why would you need
these unless they were going to be ineffective? Who made a decision to buy all these when
viruses are known to adapt and change, making these useless and a total waste of money?

   3.       Coercion

                                                                                                 1
Scott Morrison initially said on TV that everyone would be vaccinated, then stepped away
from this when advised that this was unpopular. He then manipulated this to happen via
funding to the States. He and the Federal Government were totally complicit in the injury
and death of people who took the vaccination.

   4.      Informed Consent

Even when the Pfizer trial data was released each month as a result of a US judge’s order to
release their trial data (which they had wanted hidden for 75 years), the Government did not
update its advice to ensure safety and informed consent. No pregnant women were in that
trial, yet pregnant women were encouraged to take the vaccines. These had never been
tested on them. When vaccines were mandated, no exemptions were given to pregnant or
lactating women even when miscarriage rates rose and babies died from the milk of lactating
mothers.

There was NO informed consent to take experimental gene therapy drugs. People were
advised they were getting vaccines whilst the classification being used was gene therapy.
This was a crime by Government with the assistance of the TGA.

Children should never have been given these vaccines and the trial data released by Pfizer
highlighted this. Why was the data ignored and the access extended to even younger ages
without any evidence that children were endangered by this infection?

   5.      Demonising the Unvaccinated

The TGA which the Government relied on is 95% financed by big pharma and when Pfizer
admitted in the Netherlands Government that they had never tested their vaccines for
transmission, the Government did not advise the public or change its advice. It did not stop
demonising the unvaccinated and continued to fund the ABC and other media to do so.

   6.      Alternative Treatments

The Government removed products such as Ivermectin and Hydroxychlorine from use to
enable the vaccines to be given emergency use authorisation. Even when other countries
showed these treatments were effective, the Government ignored the information and did
not consider re-evaluating their use.

   7.      Poor Decisions

Border closures split families, impacted people’s ability to work, access medical help and
cost a fortune to implement. There was no benefit. The actions were sanctioned by the
Federal Government and activated by the States who were rewarded in grants and handouts
to apply testing, mandates, lockdowns and other forms of coercion against their people.

   8.      Aged Care Abuses

The treatment of people in aged care homes was truly appalling. Residents were left without
qualified staff to look after them, deprived of seeing their loved ones and exposed to
vaccines that were never tested for their age groups. They were not exempted if they had
Covid, but provided more vaccinations even though natural immunity was shown to last and
be more effective. Again the Government did not take account of studies that showed
natural immunity data that they did not want the public to know.



                                                                                               2
   9.      No Immune System Support Advice

No advice was provided on the importance of Vit D and other vitamins and minerals even
when data showed that these were missing in those who caught infections. Nothing was
offered to assist people to boost their immune systems naturally - everything was put into
the vaccination propaganda by harnessing mainstream media to be the arm of the
Government.

   10.      No Research into Other Options

No review was taken of other countries’ approaches to identify if there were other ways of
handling this plandemic. Sweden, for example, took a different perspective and had a much
better outcome.

   11.      No Covid Support outside of Hospitals

No assistance was given to people in how to handle Covid if they contracted it. This meant
people were left to find their own way through this - no efforts by Government to ensure
home support remedies. El Salvador gave their people support packs in advance.

   12.      No Personalised Care or Monitoring

There was no risk differentiation or personalised health care or post vaccination monitoring
as should have been the case in using an experimental drug. Giving gene therapy jabs by
incentivising people with a free sausage in Bunnings car parks demonstrated the completely
ridiculous nature of the Government’s response (sanctioned by the Government and
implemented by the States using Federal money and paid to large corporations who
benefited from that money). Where was the adherence to medical rigour? Where was the
adherence to the protection of the Hippocratic oath by nurses and doctors who participated
in this farce?

   13.      Excess Deaths

There is no investigation into excess deaths. Why not? Why would something so tangible
not be worthy of its own review? It is unprecedented. We had a Commission into deaths
caused by putting in dangerous roof insulation when only a few people were affected. Here
we are talking about numbers that are equivalent to a jumbo jet full of passengers being
killed each week and the Government says nothing at all.

   14.      Breach of Nuremberg Code

Everything the Government has done, in collusion with the States, to coerce people into
taking an experimental drug has contributed to these excess deaths Their actions are in
breach of the Nuremeberg Code, which was designed to stop such totalitarianism ever
occurring again. The Code was put in place to ensure that no-one was ever to be allowed to
be experimented upon again and yet, this is exactly what happened.

   15.      Masks - usage and disposal

Masks were required using what supporting scientific data? Credible peer-reviewed reports
have all shown the ineffectiveness of masks. Worse still, these reports have also highlighted
the health danger of long-term use (over 2 hours at a time).



                                                                                             3
There were no effective steps in place to deal with the discarded masks and other products
required to be used, yet the Government says it is concerned with the environment and
sustainability

   16.     Lack of Transparency

Much of the data relating to decisions and information relating to TGA actions, vaccine
harms, contracts with vaccine providers etc all have to be sought through the use of
Freedom of Information requests. Why is this the case when the public have the right to
know how their taxpayer money is being spent and who is benefitting?

   17.     Ineffective Data Collection

The Government database to collect injury information was not working effectively. When
information was input by injured people, the submit button did not work, so the data collected
does not represent the true picture.

   18.     Lack of Truthful and Up to date Communication

People were not advised that a Death and Disability scheme had been developed and
provided by the Government. This scheme was released at the same time as people were
being advised that the vaccines were both safe and effective. How many people would have
taken the vaccine if they knew the Government was expecting harm to occur?

As the jab effectiveness ratios have moved down almost monthly from the first quoted 95%
effectiveness, the Government has not made this public or updated its advice. Why not?
How can people give informed consent when the information they should be provided with is
not there?

When Florida in the US, and other countries such as Thailand, identified the adverse impact
of the vaccines on young males, why did the Government not investigate this and inform the
public? Universities were still mandating vaccines and the Government did not change its
advice to them through the CHOs and Health Ministers. These vaccines have killed and
injured so many young people who were never at risk of any harm from the infection.
Government grants to complying universities need to be reviewed to see if these institutions
were rewarded for their efforts.

   19.     Exemptions Disallowed

Vaccine exemptions were not allowed to be given by doctors. They were threatened by the
organisation that was run by Scott Morrison’s brother. Why were doctors not allowed to
exercise their judgement as medical practitioners? Why are they not allowed to speak now?

   20.     Preparation for Pandemics

What research had the Government at all levels done to prepare in advance for a pandemic?
The public should know this along with the facts about what preparations for handling a
pandemic were overridden on this occasion.

In Summary

I am very concerned that this Inquiry will have no teeth and will only be a whitewash to
appease people. I hope that the submissions will be treated with the respect they deserve.


                                                                                             4
People need to be held accountable for their actions in breaching the Nuremberg Code and
their role in injuring and killing both our people and our economy.




                                                                                           5
