Submission to Covid 19 Response Inquiry



As a citizen of Australia I would like to make the following comments to the Covid 19 Response
Inquiry.

1. From the onset it was clear that the so-called ‘Covid 19 Pandemic’ was driven by external entities
such as the W.H.O, World Economic Forum, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation etc. While it is im­
portant to consider the view of the external agencies such as the W.H.O it is appalling that the Aus­
tralian Government felt that it has to follow the script provided by these organisations. It is almost
as if the Australia is below the any of the so-called ‘third world countries’ in its ability to assess the
situation on the ground and make up its own policies to deal with what was claimed to be a ‘pan­
demic’. One would think that the Australian Government would have convened a panel of inde­
pendent specialist epidemiologist, virologists, clinical and research practitioners and seek their
opinions and advice before deciding to follow the diktats of the W.H.O. Yet a few countries like
Sweden were brave enough to go against the diktats of the W.H.O and consider the well being of its
population and came up with their own action plan. If a country Sweden which is much smaller than
Australia in terms of its size, population and wealth, is able to decide for themselves in protecting
its own citizen one wonders why Australia decided to become a mere ‘lap dog’ of the W.H.O

2. We were told that the Australian Prime Ministers duly sought advice from ‘experts’ in TGA,
ATAGI etc. When organisations such as TGA is almost entirely funded by major pharmaceutical
companies one wonders what sort of ‘independent’ advice the Governments got.

3. The Australian Governments have failed to consider many international expert epidemiologists,
volcanologists, virologists, research fellows and health professionals with impressive credentials
had to say from the very early stages of this ‘pandemic’. While, the members of the parliament are
not expected read or understand what these experts had to say, surely, the Government and its paid
employees should have been directed to analyse these assessment before signing off on an action
plan? It just makes me wonder whether some of the Ministers, paid public servants were colluding
to implement an already chosen action plan? There cannot be any excuse to say that the Govern­
ment, Ministers and public servants just had rely on specialists advice when none of the specialists
were even given an opportunity to freely express their views - this is simply malfeasance

4. The Australian Governments decimated the small businesses of this country which used to form
the backbone Australia’s economy. While it was OK to have largest enterprises to trade with out re­
strictions the small businesses were ordered to keep closed during this ‘pandemic’. The results are
obvious now with a large percentage of these businesses being forced out the market and their busi­
ness has been sucked in by a handful of large corporations.

5. The Australian Governments implemented such harsh lock downs which helped destroy people,
their livelihoods and families. In fact, Melbourne was one of the top in the list of ‘Covid Hall of
Shame’. Not only the lock down were so harsh but the Police brutality in implementing them puts
them on par with the actions taken by                                               Well done Aus­
tralia - a country that is young and free! I hope those who enacted these draconian measures will be
exposed and punished for the gross violations of human rights, which incidentally was something
Australia used to criticise when such actions were taking place in other nations around the world!
Here we have a so-called human rights champions unashamedly carrying out even worse crimes it
used to speak out against!
6. Australia should have the decency to apologise for such criminal activities and gross violations of
human rights in the name of a fake pandemic and compensate those who have suffered, lost their
lives and livelihoods, members of family and opportunities in life not forgetting those who were
thrown in jails and kept in remand, punched, kicked by Police only to dismiss their cases in various
courts of law.

7. It is high time that the Australian Governments hid behind the veil of ‘Emergency’ to shut down
diverse views and opinions on the subject. We are often told that in an ‘emergency’ situation like
civil wars and attack from another country, the Governments have to suppress free speech. While
one may be excused that in a war scenario this might have some place in exceptional conditions, I
fail to understand how the same principle can be applied in a pandemic situation? What was needed
was to consult all views and opinions so that the executive can then make a well considered deci­
sion for the country. Shutting down any and all descent to the script handed down by the W.H.O
simply shows that either the Australian Government did not have any say in what it can do for the
local population OR some of the officials and parliamentarians were actually may have been collud­
ing with International interests at the expense of their own people and their own nation.



G. de Silva
13 December 2023.
