Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

After years of confusion and turmoil, it was great news to hear that there
would be an inquiry into the Covid pandemic response. However, it is
bewildering, disappointing and suspicious that the scope of an inquiry would
be limited to only the Federal Government's actions. If there was a genuine
desire to uncover the truth, an inquiry into the pandemic response would, of
course, be opened up to everyone who played a part in the pandemic
response, including the State Governments, who were responsible for
measures such as vaccine mandates, state border closures, lockdowns and
quarantine. It's the inquiry you have when you don't really want to have an
inquiry, but wish to be seen to be having an inquiry.

The Federal Government tried to sit back and deny any responsibility in the
tyrannical and ineffective pandemic measures of the States. They coerced the
Australian people to be vaccinated, denying it was mandated. They allowed
states and companies to effectively mandate jobs, such as police, teachers,
health and aged care workers. They allowed states to violate rights of
Australians to bodily autonomy, medical privacy, the ability to participate in
society without discrimination, the ability to work without discrimination.

It is my understanding that the Covid 19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of
Discrimination) Bill 2022, and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting Covid 19
Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023, were both defeated, which is an absolute
failure of the Australian Government to protect its people.

Once vaccines were available, the Australian Government rushed in to
purchase millions of doses of vaccines, which had only provisional emergency
use approval. They were novel, poorly tested, and completely untested for mid
to long term outcomes. Their production and use ignored all prevailing medical
and scientific principles.

Instead of showing caution, our Government purchased 255 million doses,
costing the Australian people billions of dollars. To date, the Federal
Government has spent $18 billion on Covid vaccines and treatments. According
to the ABC news, 60 million of these doses have been administered; 40 million
have been donated to other countries; more than half of the 255million doses
were simply binned.
The TGA, entrusted to evaluate, assess, monitor and regulate therapeutic
goods, claim on their website that they "rigorously assess any COVID-19
vaccine for safety, quality and effectiveness before it can be supplied in
Australia." Like the FDA in America, the TGA do no testing of their own. They
merely use the documents and data provided by the pharmaceutical
companies themselves, including^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Hand
        These companies, of course, pick and choose data that makes their
product look safe and effective.

The Australian authorities, including the TGA, ATAGI and the Department of
health, entrusted to serve and protect our people showed a reckless disregard
for our lives. There was no "rigorous assessment". This is demonstrated by the
fact that the 'recipe' for one of the vaccines injected into the Australian people
was different from the 'recipe' that the TGA approved. It has come out that
there is huge variation between batches and vials of the same vaccine. Some
vials tested by independent scientists are contaminated with DNA which may
lead to cancer. The authorities have approved some            and
boosters which had never been tested on humans, only mice. Reported severe
adverse reactions of covid vaccines are by far the highest of any vaccine ever.
Not so safe, it turns out.

Australia's excess mortality rate among all age groups is about 12% -17%. This
is similar to other vaccinated countries. This is particularly concerning because
Australia was largely vaccinated before COVID swept through. In March 2023, a
bill was proposed to inquire and report on Australia's excess mortality. Why
was it defeated? Why isn't the Australian government interested that so many
of us are dying, and it's not from the pandemic?

The fact that the vaccines are provisionally approved means that we are
actually in one big clinical trial - there is no information on mid-term and long­
term safety or effectiveness. No one can claim they are safe and effective over
time. Being a clinical trial, it is imperative that accurate records be kept on
health outcomes. Our authorities are not ensuring this.

Despite the shoddy science, the Department of Health funded, supplied and
advertised vaccination, saying vaccination would:
"protect people who can't be vaccinated, slow the spread of the virus, reduce
the need for lockdowns and school closures in the future (when enough
Australians are vaccinated), enable us to attend events and travel in the future"

(https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/about-rollout)

This is coercion, holding our freedoms and rights as a carrot to coerce us into
accepting an experimental medical procedure.

This is also inaccurate, as it turned out that     admitted that they never
tested for transmission. Either the Government and authorities knew this, and
lied to the people, or        lied to our governments, and now needs to be
prosecuted and the whole vaccination scheme be shut down.

Throughout the pandemic, vaccine side effects and severe adverse reactions
have been ignored or omitted, COVID case numbers, hospitalizations and
causes of death have been obscured and manipulated by our governments and
authorities. Victims have been ignored and ridiculed, debate has been
censored. People have died, people have lost their livelihoods, their loved
ones, their health, their rights and freedoms, their businesses, and we are
looking for answers. Please do right by the people of Australia and ensure this
inquiry uncovers the truth.
