Subject: Concerns Regarding COVID-19 Measures and Their Impact over the last
couple of years.



Today I am writing to express my concerns regarding the COVID-19 measures,
specifically the lockdowns, mask mandates, and vaccination mandatory
requirements. While I understand the importance of public health initiatives, I
believe it is crucial to investigate the past impact of these measures and how it
affected the general-public and the stability of the Australian Economy.

Firstly, the prolonged lockdowns had significant economic and social consequences.
Many businesses, particularly small businesses, were and are struggling to survive,
leading to job losses, closures of businesses, and financial hardships for countless
individuals and families. The lockdowns caused consequences on Individuals and
families being mandated to be isolated in their respective states and homes, I believe
this caused undue severe anxiety, depression, unnecessary stress, financial losses
and other health concerns. I urge the government to consider alternative strategies
that balance public health and well-being and with economic stability for any
Australian future pandemic's that may occur.

Secondly, mandatory mask-wearing policies have been and were divisive, with some
studies suggesting limited effectiveness in certain contexts. I recommend a thorough
review of the latest scientific evidence to determine the most appropriate and
targeted use of masks, ensuring public compliance without unnecessary burden, now
and into the future.

Finally, while there is an importance of vaccination in controlling the spread of the
virus, mandatory vaccination raises ethical and individual and the larger Community
freedom concerns, as well as human rights violations. I propose exploring
educational initiatives to increase voluntary (non-coerced, non- mandatory)
vaccination rates, fostering a sense of community responsibility rather than resorting
to compulsory, coerced or mandatory measures.

I believe it should be up to the individual to make his or her appropriate health
choices, and not be forced, coerced, or threatened to lose their livelihood or financial
stability.

In conclusion, I appreciate the government's efforts of trying to safeguard public
health. However, I believe a thoughtful consideration process of any future measures
is warranted to strike a balance between protecting citizens' rights and freedoms and
minimising the unintended consequences of these interventions, and without the
over-reaching of those safely measures from the government that were put in place,
for now and into the future.
Thank you for your attention to this matter. I look forward to hearing about any
initiatives or considerations that may arise from this feedback.

Sincerely,
