COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
SUBMISSION


I thank you for the opportunity to be able to make a submission in regards to the Commonwealth
Government's response during the Covid-19 Pandemic, though I do find it odd that there wasn't much
time for people to be able to lodge a submission. One must wonder whether the Government actually
wishes to hear what people have to say given the short amount of time to make a submission and the
timing just prior to Christmas when everyone is at their busiest. There are certainly many areas of the
Covid-19 response that leaves a lot to be desired and at this time of year, I would say that the
Government is acting like “Scrooge” in being frugal with the time frame and excludes how the states
handled this era.

The Commonwealth Government (and state governments) assumed an enormous amount of power over
this time, which was never permitted by the people because they were never consulted and the
government made decisions that were life changing for all the Australian population, based on little or
no information. The science was never debated and was certainly never taken into consideration - it
was all based on modelling which turned out to be completely false. The slogan “the science is settled”
became a catch-cry which is totally misleading as science is never settled. It is constantly evolving.
Also, the use of violence and coercion by the government and its armed police forces during this time
was something not seen in this country before and obviously had nothing to do with the health and
safety of anyone. I hope this never will be again.

Lessons need to be learnt - the government needs to listen to what the people have to say and take on
board their concerns and address these and accept responsibility for their actions.

I wish to address “Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities
of state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Co-ordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and
advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19. ”

1.     Prior to Covid-19, Australia had a handbook ready to deal with any pandemic, if and when one
       should arise. This handbook was not used at all during this pandemic - in fact it was totally
       thrown out the window and the total opposite of what was in the handbook was what became
       the model of dealing with this time. I want to know why!!
2.     National Cabinet has no basis, as in it was unconstitutionally set-up and operated under a
       shroud of secrecy when our governments are all vocal about transparency. We have a
       Constitution which is designed to protect the Australian people in these types of situations and
       yet it was totally ignored and our human rights were stripped away. The fact that the National
       Cabinet still has not released the minutes of its meetings further undermines the people's
       confidence in the government and their response to this pandemic. What does it have to hide?
3.     The Prime Minister gave himself basically unlimited power by taking on numerous Ministerial
       positions, with even the Governor General not questioning this. This makes for a dangerous
       precedent moving forward and makes a mockery of our whole political system.
4.     The Federal Government, due to its silence, allowed State Governments and Territories to
       mandate an experimental shot, now known as a gene therapy, upon the general population. This
       is a total violation of human rights, allows the government to assume they have power over
       every person's health and body, and breeches the Nuremberg Code. The fact that the Federal
       Government did not speak out about this, and in fact mandated it also for several work sectors,
       speaks very loudly about how little our Governments actually care about our health and safety.
       This is a most important factor of this inquiry, especially given the statistics and information
       that is now coming out.
5.     The Federal Government permitted, again due to its silence, border closures. Open borders are
        clearly enshrined within our Constitution and seeing the closure of such, shows a total
        disregard for any and all Constitutional rights therein. Furthermore, these border closures had a
        terrible impact upon families who sought medical care and were denied by the existence of an
        invisible line. And the fact that people died due to this amounts to criminal negligence. The
        state and federal governments both need to be held to account for this.

Next, I wish to address “Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities and
public health messaging). ”

1.     The Federal Government failed to ensure that the emergency approved MRNA based therapies
       were assessed as the Genetically Modified Organisms that they are, and complied with the
        relevant safety standards is a failure of duty of care. This is already leading to lawsuits and
        class actions never seen before on this scale and may lead to considerable compensation
        payouts for those who suffered and were harmed from adverse reactions.
2.     The fact that AHPRA threatened and harrassed doctors who questioned the government position
        on these vaccines means that no person who received these injections actually gave fully
        informed consent on a voluntary basis. Most people received these shots due to government
        coercion that they would no longer be able to work and provide for their families. Part of
        informed consent means the medical professional administering said “vaccines” did not outline
       the potential adverse events that could occur. The catch-cry “safe and effective” was loud and
        clear on the television, through government media conferences, advertising, booklets and,
        given that this was only a new “vaccine”, this should have come with clear warnings that the
        potential adverse events were, at best, unknown. Also, when deliberating with a medical
        professional, they are to provide alternatives, but in this case there were none, because the
        government also banned the use of known and effective treatments such as Ivermectin and
        Hydroxychloroquine.
3.     The fact that dismissing and banning these known safe and effective treatments was a necessary
        pre-requisite to the emergency approval of the various novel Covid-19 MRNA based therapies
        and other injectables because the requirement that “there is no adequate, approved and
        available alternative to the product” calls into question the alleged professional independence
        of the regulatory bodies who dismissed these proven therapies.
4.     Australia (and around the world) is seeing extraordinary excess death rates, which when looking
        at the data, began soon after these emergency approved therapies began and have not dissipated
        since that time. It begs the question whether these “vaccines” are contributing to these death
        rates, not seen since World War II. And despite this, our governments (federal and state)
        remain silent when there should be transparency, an investigation and an admission of error.
       The people who have died from this deserve better.

Finally, I would like to address “Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of
particular populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic
location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
linguistically diverse communities). ”
1.     The Federal Government should never be silent when the state governments violate human
        rights and freedoms. Our Constitution was set up to protect the people of Australia and no
        government (state or federal) should be allowed to contravene that, no matter the
        circumstances. There are no exceptions. Nowhere in the Constitution does it say that it is
        pending a national or international emergency or pandemic. Never. In future, any government
       that contravenes our constitutional rights and freedoms must be held accountable for their
        actions. It needs to be immediately dissolved and actual trials need to begin. The governments
       that oversaw the Covid-19 lockdowns and restrictions need to be held accountable. The
        Federal Government, in being silent and allowing the states to inflict these upon their
        constituents, needs to be held accountable. There is no other option. None, zilch, nada.
       Transparency of Government decisions needs to be paramount, after all it is the taxpayers
        money financing these decisions. And in an emergency, trust needs to be gained and
       transparency is key in determining this.
2.     No government in Australia, state or federal, should ever be allowed to mandate medical
        procedures. This is a violation of human rights and bodily autonomy no matter what the
        circumstances are. When it comes to health and medicine, transparency and facts are vital in
        ensuring that individuals give voluntary consent, no exceptions. We are now seeing the high
        cost of what mandates and following the government narrative are capable of and this line must
        never again be crossed.
3.     Early on in the pandemic, data from countries such as Sweden and Italy showed quite distinctly
       that Covid-19 was to be considered a high risk to the elderly and the infirm. The younger the
        population, it was negligible. This was never taken into account with the restrictions and
        lockdowns that were put into place. It was a blanket rule that covered everyday, regardless of
       their age or their health. Healthy people should never be locked in their homes. In future, the
        use of the pandemic handbook needs to be utilised and overseen, ensuring that human rights
        and freedoms are never violated. If people are ill, they need to stay home or be in a hospital.
4.     Therapies already in use and proven safe should never be banned in Australia even if their
        effectiveness is debatable. The banning of Ivermectin and Hydroxychoroquine was a violation
        of medical care for Australians and a breech of the doctor-patient relationship. The peer
        reviewed studies done during this ban shows them to be exceptionally effective and the bans
       would have certainly led to unnecessary deaths.

This is just the tip of the iceberg, but with time constraints and submission length constraints, not
everything can be dealt with by one submission, giving any great detail about what needs to be
addressed. I hope my submission gives some light as to where my thoughts lie and what needs to be
addressed by this inquiry. I hope this inquiry will not be a whitewash where a government body
oversees an inquiry into its own government. That already would make it a conflict of interest with
little opportunity for the Commonwealth Government to admit its errors and actually face some
consequences for the damage it has caused to its own people. I hope and trust we see some real results
and some establishing of how to approach anything in the future, but protecting our human rights and
freedoms enshrined.

Thank you.
