                                    COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

Please accept my submission below to voice my concerns over several aspects of Australia's response
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Whilst it is important to improve on any preparedness for any future
pandemic, there are many areas we know now that did not work well and need thorough revision.

Vaccine development:
Of grave concern is the "vaccine" was developed at the speed of light or, as NCIRS (National Centre
for Immunisation Research and Surveillance) describes, "at pandemic speed". They cite that normal
vaccine development takes 10 years, however the Covid vaccine took 10 months. Screenshots from
NCIRS website in November 2021 note:

"After collecting data, regulatory bodies assess vaccine safety and effectiveness before the vaccine is
licensed. The whole process of vaccine development to licensure takes around 10 years.

Overlapping and combined phases of clinical trials, the urgency of a need for a safe and effective
vaccine, international collaborative efforts, funding and pre-planning in manufacturing have allowed
vaccine development time-frame to be compressed to about 10 months. Covid-19 vaccines are being
rolled out for emergency use authorisation in several countries.

However, as there are limited safety data, full registration of the vaccine will only be given after
extended safety monitoring, which will take several years."

Was it appropriate for a "vaccine" which had not undergone the full gamut of safety testing to have
been approved, distributed, mandated and injected?



Transmission:
It has since been proven that Covid vaccinations neither stop transmission, nor stops you acquiring
Covid. Many select target groups were threatened with an ultimatum to keep their jobs for a virus
they may or may not catch regardless of whether they were or weren't vaccinated. Employees were
mandated in order to be allowed to continue working in certain settings, however are free to move
around within the community.

Should a vaccine have been offered to members of the Australian public, and mandated for certain
select target groups, that was not fit for purpose?



Vaccine related injuries:
Without revealing where my knowledge is found, I am privy to many citizens who have developed
injuries post Covid vaccination which is both horrifying and distressing.

Weight should be given to vaccinations undergoing full and property safety testing and licensing
before distribution.

Mask and vaccination mandates:
Implementation of mask and vaccine mandates took away people's freedoms and invoked a "medical
apartheid" approach within the community. These measures invaded people's liberties and were
unnecessary and a violation of human rights.

A medical procedure offered under threat and ultimatum -whereupon a patient is not free to choose
- goes against the four common medical ethics:

    •       Autonomy - giving the patient the freedom to choose freely and right to self-determination


                                                   1
                                    COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

    •       Beneficence - the duty to "do good"
    •       Non-malficence - the duty to "not do bad"
    •       Justice - to treat all people equally and equitably

A review of these invasive approaches is required to determine whether these measures were in fact
necessary, effective or warranted.



Lockdowns, curfews, and loss offreedoms for non-vaccinated:
The above "rules" have had a great social and psychological impact on a majority of citizens. When
vaccinated and non-vaccinated were allowed to mingle together in shopping centres, bottle shops and
post offices etc, but not allowed to sit in a restaurant or movie theatre together, it was pretty clear
that these were not health measures, but controlling measures.

These particular actions need to be extensively and transparently evaluated to determine a more
appropriate response.

Communication:
The use of fear mongering in all public health messaging was unwarranted and caused a great deal of
alarm in the community. We have all seen the people wearing masks whilst driving alone. I have
personally seen elderly sitting outdoors on their porches of their own homes wearing masks. Elderly
people were fearful of going out of their house and became prisoners of their own home. MSM need
to be factual in their reporting and not spread fear and rumour.

The question has to be asked, were communications to the public effective and factual, or were they
sensationalised so as to cause fear and distress?

Medical autonomy (free from ultimatums/threats):
Australian citizens should always have complete and absolute autonomy over their own medical
decisions which did not occur during the mandate ultimatum. "Autonomy - the right of competent
adults to make informed decisions about their own medical care". By implementing mandates under
threat, the option to make an informed decision was taken away [The question should have been, "Is
this vaccination right for me and my health?" Instead it was, "Do I undergo this vaccination or do I
lose my job?"] Forced vaccinations should not occur, especially where only select members of the
community are targeted.

Citizens should be duly responsible for looking after their own health and wellbeing; the onus should
not fall onto a select subset of people to be accountable for other people's health. Australian citizens
should (remain) free to maintain their medical autonomy, along with retaining their expected human
rights.

Was mandating certain select target groups of the public in the best interests of the community?
Should citizens have been put in a Russian roulette situation as to whether they were mandated or
not and thereby foregoing their medical autonomy; remembering that an ultimatum is not a choice.


Human rights:
The end does not justify the means when human rights are taken away. It was shocking that an
authoritarian approach was undertaken to strip away the human rights of select target groups, health
workers, police, etc. When myself and others applied for exemption (to the Covid vaccine), we
received a reply which stated:




                                                   2
                                    COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

"I am satisfied that my decision to refuse your exemption application is compatible with your human
rights. While this decision engages or limits a number of your human rights, including your right to
equality and non-discrimination and your right not to receive medical treatment without consent, I
am satisfied that those limits on human rights are justified........ "


A question to be considered is, should selected employees be faced with an ultimatum to decide
between their livelihood or medical autonomy, or have their human rights abolished?



Staffing levels:
The mandates, not surprisingly, resulted in the loss of a lot of hard-working staff who took with them
many years of knowledge and experience. There was a detrimental effect on staffing levels
throughout the entire select targeted groups who were mandated; e.g. staff numbers in my work
group halved, from six to three, which impacted negatively on our turnaround time.

What have been the consequence of businesses losing staff as a result of mandates (termination or
resigning) or vaccine injuries (unable to continue working)?


Scope of the inquiry:
Panel members wo have previously expressed support for any/all pandemic measures raises questions
about the objectivity or impartiality of the inquiry.

In the best interests of having a fair and transparent inquiry, panel members should be totally
impartial.


State and Territory decisions:
State and Territory governments did not work together and imposed border controls and lockdowns
which saw families torn apart, loved ones dying without family members at their side, children
separated from parents.

The harsh locking down of the country with Australian citizens made virtual prisoners in their own
country needs to be included in the inquiry agenda.

Conclusion:
My submission represents my views as an Australian citizen of all that was wrong with pandemic
response and what needs to be addressed and rectified. I am hopeful of an inclusive, transparent and
thorough investigation into Australia's Covid-19 pandemic response. There was a "war waged against
citizens" all under the guise of keeping people safe. Freedoms and liberties should never be cast aside,
and fearmongering should be abolished. Australian values and liberties need to be safeguarded in the
future.



Electronically verified by




                                                   3
