Dear Members of the COVID-19 Response Enquiry Panel,

I am an Australian citizen who was not at significant risk from COVID-19 and who was prevented
from working and lost earnings in 2021 for refusing to be part of the world's largest clinical human
trial involving novel mRNAgene therapy drugs. I work in an office with over^^^^^^^H^HH all
of whom received two or more of the Pfizer or Moderna mRNA drugs. Over half experienced adverse
events post-vaccination:


                                                                                              For their
pain and suffering, every single one of them has had COVID-19 one or more times.

I wish you to answer the following questions regarding Australia's COVID-19 response, and to admit
my final statement for consideration to inform the Commonwealth's response to future pandemics.

1.   Why was Australia's original Pandemic Response Plan jettisoned in favour of the brutal lockdown
     model implemented by                         China?
2.   Why were doctors prevented from seeing and treating people with respiratory illnesses before
     the experimental vaccines were made available? Why were medical ethics violated in this way?
3.   Why was the PCR Test used to diagnose COVID-19 when its inventor had stated that the test
     should not be used for the diagnosis of disease?
4.   Why was the public not adequately informed about ways to boost their immunity against
     respiratory viruses? Why was this information censored by government (Home Affairs)?
5.   Why was a culture of fear actively promoted by government officials instead of their seeking to
     lessen the anxiety of the public?
6.   What was the impact of this unrelenting diet of fear on people's mental and physical health?
     How did this promote human health and wellbeing? What was the medical evidence relied upon
     in exaggerating the threat of COVID-19 to the general public and seeking to terrify them?
7.   Why were Australians denied their human right to leave the country during the alleged
     pandemic emergency?
8.   Why were asymptomatic people who had tested positive to COVID-19 deprived of their liberty
     for 2 weeks at a time and compelled to undergo two additional invasive, nasal swab tests? What
     was the medical evidence relied upon for these human rights violations?
9.   Why were many working-age people compelled to take an experimental gene therapy in order to
     be able to work? What risk-benefit studies were conducted? Why was bodily autonomy
     disregarded? Why was free and informed consent disregarded? Who will be put on trial for
     committing these egregious human rights and Nuremberg Code violations?
10. Why did the Commonwealth government allow states to close their borders, mandate vaccines
     and deny their residents the right to return to their dwellings unless they took an experimental
     drug? What actions were taken to uphold the Australian Constitution in this regard?
11. Why was the COVID-19 response not wound back once it became clear in around April 2020 that
     the disease was not nearly as deadly as had been reported in the media? Why did governments
     instead double down on the fear-mongering and imposition of restrictions on the lives of their
     citizens?
12. When will my wife and I be compensated for our lost earnings?
13. When will the government apologise to the Australian people for its appalling and shameful
     treatment of its people during the COVID-19 flu epidemic?
14. When will people who have lost their employment due to refusing the dangerous and ineffective
     COVID-19 vaccines, (for example, the nurses and doctors of SA Health), be re-employed with
     back pay and an apology from those responsible?
In the event of a future pandemic, Australia should adopt the Pandemic Response Plan that was in
existence at the beginning of 2020. A virus cannot be stopped. Period. The fanatical attempts to
achieve zero-COVID were hugely destructive to this country and must never be repeated.

I earnestly seek an honest and rigorous investigation into the greatest manmade calamity in the
Commonwealth's history. If you are honest with yourselves, you will have to admit that had we done
absolutely nothing in response to COVID-19, the outcome would either have been the same, or - far
more likely - infinitely better for the overwhelming majority of Australians. For one thing, we would
not need an AED device on every corner as we do now.

Thank you.
