Writing this submission as parents; everyday ordinary people who
have only ever wanted the best for family, community and country.
This is our take on the last four years -
15 Days to 'Flatten the Curve' was the most ignorant, naive and ill-
informed Government and so-called Chief Health Officer's plan of
action; this plan itself of course - was to become the beginning of
the 'Deception' and the Project of Fear, this far too simple and
grossly un-scientific catch phrase which in four years has
practically brought this country to it's knees, the human toll the
economic toll and the toll on our moral and cultural identity;
obvious to those who care to look. Government and it's litany of
bureaucrat's and Premier's had no proof, evidence, science or
authority to hand down such ludicrous dictats (dogmatic decree's)
and the spawn that followed in the form of 'vaccine' and mask
mandates, quarantine centres, border closures, job losses,
restricted gatherings, school closures, 'vaccine' passports, ticks
and crosses of red and green, funeral's missed, babies dying at the
tyrant's whim, old people alone, all and all human right's abuses
varied and many which have now brought us to the raft of terrible
human and economic outcomes many, many good people are experiencing
and suffering as a consequence.
We will not focus on the personal grief and destruction this has
wrought on our family and community (lockdowns, mandates, health
issues, death and sickness attributed to 'vaccine adverse
reactions', disrupted education with irretrievable outcomes, high
street full of empty shops once inhabited by small entrepreneurial
mum and dad businesses; and of course that which goes without saying
the ubiquitous mental heath explosion! ) But believe us it is real
and is 'real' people's lives that Government and Bureaucrat's holus-
bolus tread on and over without even a question to the 'science'
which now is being exposed for the garbage it was and is! No debate,
no practice of age old infection control methods, dreadful masking
mandates that had years of medical and scientific proof that masks
were useless to control infection and were and are harmful; not just
the banning of tried and true medicines with over 50 years of proven
efficacy but the actual making of them 'illegal' to prescribe or
have as off label medication! As an aside to sensible - what about
the circus that was wear a mask when entering a restaurant, take it
off to eat and put it on again to leave! A pile of the proverbial
would describe that 'science' as taking the 'mickey1 but with a
dreadful cost to the human psyche! Who makes up such bizarre
rulings, mad tyrannical Roman Emperor's come to mind. Those sensible
things alone if Government and it's associated mouthpieces actually
had concern for the welfare of 'the people' would have been a
priority to the duty of care of the citizens and especially grievous
was the travesty that was the carnage wreaked on our precious
elderly.
We find it repugnant that Government gave 'permission' for
sanctimonious virtue signalling finger waggers to have a platform to
judge other people's lives and decisions; that absolutely agregious
threats against certain people were tolerated and encouraged and
some were even shot at by Police for exercising their constitutional
rights (in this country!!). That the Government's own handbook on
Immunisation states CLEARLY "Informed Consent" as the 'absolute'
and the medication provided "without coercion, manipulation or undue
pressure" that people have a right to their own bodily autonomy as
set out in the Nuremberg Declaration. However under Covid Government
propaganda endlessly televised threats and a number's game this was
so easily thrown under the bus, some people losing everything
because they practiced their right to Bodily Autonomy! What a
disgrace this all was!
Now Government ignore Excess Death figures which appear in their own
Statistics and Data and nonchalantly dismiss the excess and
unexplained death's of their own as unimportant to investigate. The
people will work it out eventually and who knows that outcome?
May God bless you in your Inquiry because the blood, heartache, loss
and breakdown in the lives of Australian's over the past 4 years has
to be acknowledged; those in charge then and now should face the
people and be reminded they 'serve' not the other way around. They
must be judged to whether this was criminal behaviour; were these
Crimes against Humanity? Was their fear mongering, their over reach,
their ultimate power grab and their stunning lack of curiosity to
ask questions of BIG Pharmaceutical and the W.H.O just share
stupidity or actual malice?
You are tasked with this enormous responsibility actually an
historical responsibility for future generations that you exercise
an 'archer's eye' in this Inquiry. We pray that every night you lay
your head on the pillow you sleep the sleep of babe's; because you
have in this day of inquiry with this chalice you have been given -
sought justice and truth, and that you stood unflinching facing the
task without fear or personal stake in the outcome. That you are
there solely for the people in the pursuit of truth, transparency,
a fearless righteous heart and a love of humanity.

Thank you
Paul and Nina Ferrari
