SUBMISSION by Katherine Eagles: 12 December, 2023



RE.Covid-19 response inquiry.

I respectfully make the following points:

   1) Insufficient time and media exposure was provided for Australians to properly make
      submissions for this important issue.
   2) There has been a massive cover-up of the highest excess death rate in Australia since
      World War Two. See attached article by Dr Wilson Sy.
   3) Australia’s Covid response cost a trillion dollars—actually $934.8 billion—of
      taxpayer dollars. Yet the result is a soaring Adverse Events rate from trial
      drugs/injections, improperly tested. Latest figures give the fatality rate at one in 1000
      doses. This is totally unacceptable and must be properly investigated.
   4) These injections, marketed as “vaccines” have now been found to not prevent anyone
      from getting Covid, nor transmitting it. This is FRAUD!
   5) Doctors, nursing staff and other medical personnel were silenced and/or suspended by
      AHPRA, TGA, and ATAGI. These organisations clearly have a conflict of interest, as
      they receive most of their funding from global pharmaceutical companies.
   6)      Why were the drug manufacturers exempt from legal liability? This must be reversed.
   7) Why were journalists and media outlets prevented from exposing what has the
      appearance of a major scam perpetrated on the Australian public? This question must
      be answered. Senator Antic’s FOI requests showed the Australian Department of
      Home Affairs made more than 4,000 requests to digital platforms to censor all Covid-
      19 content!!
   8) Why were the drugs marketed as “safe and effective” then approved for general use
      when long-term safety requirements were not met?
   9) Did the Australian Government collude with Big Tech to suppress real information on
      the threat from Covid? International epidemiological expert                   put the
      recovery rate from SARS Covid-19 at 98-99%, similar to an ordinary cold.
   10) WE DEMAND A FULL ROYAL COMMISSION into the Covid response and
      the faux “vaccines”, not an insipid white-wash.

Please make this happen. Australians deserve nothing less from their elected
Government.

Yours sincerely,

Katherine Eagles.
