To: The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel

Ms. Robyn Kruk AO
Ms.Catherine Bennet
Dr. Angela Jackson



From:                        15. December 2023



Hello panel,

My personal experiences around Covid - 19

My thoughts on Parliament's response to the WHO's pandemic went from total agreement
with initial precautionary measures, to why lock down healthy people, no one is dying on
the streets, to unbelievable government advertising, to total disgust at animal behaviour by
law enforcement beating up on the public, to visiting clown world at the local restaurant,
where I didn't have to wear a face mask outside or when sitting down at the table, but when
I stood up inside.

Personally, my trust in Parliament and their entities to manage Australia, in the best
interests of the people through any crisis, is at an all time^^^^J low because of their
COVID -19 response.

       I don't know if he's been covid jabbed or not, he's never mentioned it, but he ratted
positive after coming down with what he said was a rotten flu.

      and his wife wanted to travel to Europe so had the first round of shots, both have
ratted positive since their jabs.

^^Hwas told he would lose his fifo job in ^|without the jab, so had it and has ratted
positive since.
He took seven weeks holidays to spend two weeks in isolation                 three weeks
with family, then two week in isolation in^^H before flying to                        that
was after not seeing his family for ~six months due to the unconstitutional closure of State
borders.
His wife had a few shots, as did her parents who had expected to immediately be able to
travel overseas to visit family, not so, all three have ratted positive since their jabs.
^^Jand his family are now based in^^|for obvious reasons.
Uber pop and his wife miss cuddling their grandchildren, FaceTime helps.

           and her partner were told they would lose their jobs without the jab, so had them
and since have ratted positive.
Uber pop was continually having to pick up her son from daycare for the slightest sniffle due
to their covid "paranoia" policy; it's daycare, teething, earaches, temperatures, crying,
children build strong immune systems from early childhood contacts, it's normal.
He never tested positive, but had to have seven days away and a doctor certificate to return
more than a few times; there was no refund.

 My wife lost her job and seven years of long service leave because she would not have the
jab.
She has picked up casual employment since.
 Her old workmates keep in contact and visit regularly and she hasn't missed a company
Christmas dinner since; all have had their jabs and who could have guessed, all have ratted
 positive since, some more than once.
 Her mother and one aunty both recently passed away                             picked up
after having their jabs.
 My wife was tested regularly in 2020 and has never tested positive.

Old mate recently died, when we phoned his sister to find out what caused his death, she
said he had a massive heart attack and had long covid; we find the L.C. hard to believe, I
picked him up from the hospital after his broken leg break was pinned, family saw him daily,
cooked meals to take down to him, took him shopping, dropped off his beer, to the day
before he died he never mentioned having covid.

The last shot I had was a tetanus booster and have never had a cold worthy of a ratty.



My thoughts on what I think are improvements, that I'd like to see given serious thought
by the panel for Parliament to implement.

Now having signed up for the UN COP28, Declaration on Climate and Health, before
invoking an extremely rash pandemic or climate response:

That the Parliament has unequivocal proof a pathogen exists; that it has been isolated from
unadulterated body tissue or fluid from infected humans at the original outbreak location.

That if the guesstimated number of deaths from a new pathogen exceeds the five years
average for influenza before the year 2020, then a domestically constructed pandemic
response plan, with control measures that are guided by the overriding demands of the
Australian People on the Parliament, States and Territories governments by the Constitution
and all Referendum results, be implemented.

That pandemic response guidelines offered by foreign organisations influenced or
sponsored by commercial interests, their bodies, agencies or agents, that do not commit
those organisations, be invalid.

That the cure is never worse than the disease.

That medical testing devices approved for use in Australia to detect a pathogen, will never
use contrived specimens from samples derived from different gene specific, synthetic, or
genomic nucleic acid sources, and that positive test results from contrived specimens will
never be published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and never ever be used to justify
any medical mandate.

That vaccines are derived and manufactured from the isolated pandemic pathogen, never in
first case from a computer model of a protein; and vaccine manufacturers and sponsors will
maintain full commercial liability for their products.

That all clinical trial data is made public, never redacted or suppressed and matches the
sponsor's Australian Product Information Sheet entries.

That vaccines are never self spreading.

That PRE, namely face masks made available for the public, are certified against the
inhalation of the pathogen.

That deregulated medicines approval pathways, urgently be revisited by rigorous scientific
minds, other than pharmacologists and medical professionals.

I cannot imagine a provisional driver, legitimately receiving a full drivers license without
police investigating the many official complaints of alleged hundreds dead and tens of
thousands injured caused by their dangerous driving, as must happen to clear the air around
gene therapy products to help rebuild trust in governments.

That healthy Australians will never be discriminated against, locked out of their places of
work and education, and never have their freedom of movement obstructed while living
within their sovereign border by government officials, employers, hospitals, medical
centres, schools, public transport or frequented public places, by medical mandates,
unlawful acts or coercion.

That unelected commercial or foreign organisations, their members and partners be barred
from addressing and influencing National Cabinet.

That minutes of National Cabinet meetings regarding pandemic and climate responses be
unredacted and published for the people of Australia to peruse.

That Australian parliamentarians, bureaucrats and their private business partners involved
in the response adhere to the Nuremberg Code, and Rome Statute of the International
Criminal Court.

That Australian parliamentarians, bureaucrats and private business partners talk truth to the
people; if the real world evidence doesn't match the narrative, change the narrative to
match the evidence like all true scientists do, no biggie, truth always wins in the end.



Thank you for your time,
