Issues Involved in Federal Government covid 19 response.


1. Vaccine Procurement and Secret Vaccine Contracts.

It is clear that the process the Morrison government followed to procure covid 19 vaccines was
far from transparent, and contracts were signed with pharmaceutical companies that excluded
proper examination of safety data and whether these vaccines were truly safe ,before they were
introduced to the public.

Question: Why did the Federal government refuse to divulge the contracts used to procure
covid 19 vaccines?

2. Vaccine Mandates

When the covid 19 vaccines were beginning to be rolled out, the then prime minister Scott
Morrison stated that he would make them as mandatory as possible. This statement is in direct
contravention to section 51,23a of our constitution which prohibits mandatory vaccines or any
forcible health treatment. This has been supported by the High court in the pharmaceutical
benefits case, and never overruled.

Question: Why did the Prime Minister Scott Morrison attempt to make covid 19 vaccination
compulsory, when this is clearly prohibited by the Australian constitution; the highest law in the
land, and by rulings of the High Court since 1945. This was an unlawful act.

3. Vaccine Injuries.

Since the covid 19 vaccine roll out, the T.G.A has recorded some 140,000 covid 19 vaccine
related injuries requiring medical treatment. Another organization AUSVAC has recorded 2
million adverse effects from the covid 19 vaccine roll out. According to the Australian Bureau of
Statistics, In the last two months of 2021, exactly 9 months after the covid 19 vaccine roll out,
live birth rates across Australia plummeted by between 70 to 80 per cent. It is an established
fact the 75% of pregnant women who receive the covid vaccine during the first trimester of
pregnancy miscarried.

In addition to this in 2022, the Australian death rate was 15% higher than normal with an
additional 30,000 deaths. Since the Australian national death rate was first recorded there has
never been such a sudden rise in deaths. Generally, the death rate varies up or down by 2 to 3
%. The Australian Senate has refused to investigate why the countries death toll was so high in
2022. This is a national disgrace.
Question: Why does the Australian government simply refuse to investigate excess deaths and
injuries around Australia since the covid 19 vaccine roll out in 2021, and the drop in our birth
rate ,when the vaccine is known to cause cardiovascular problems, miscarriages, and a large
range of detrimental effects.



4. Mask Mandates.

Mask mandates were part of the health advice recommended by the Federal Department of
Health during the covid 19 pandemic. There has never been any credible scientific evidence that
wearing of a mask prevented the spread of covid 19. So why was this measure followed.

Question: Why was mask wearing to prevent the spread of covid 19 advised by the Federal
government when there was no scientific evidence to back it up.



5. Lockdowns

The policy approach of the Federal government during the covid 19 pandemic was to allow the
states to implement lockdowns across the country when this very measure had been a proven
failure in preventing the spread of covid 19, and was in fact severely detrimental to people's
health.

Question: Why did the federal liberal government provide funding to the states to implement
lockdowns when their own Health Department had recommended against this as part of the
2019 Australian health management plan for pandemic influenza?



6. Government misinformation in the media.

The Federal government response to covid 19 was to portray it as a serious infectious risk ,
when the exact opposite was true. The overall risk of infection to the general population was
low to mild. The virus was only a risk to elderly , and to those who were immune compromised
with a fatality rate of .16%..

Question; Why did the Federal government continually portray the covid 19 virus as a threat to
everyone , and allow the lockdown of the country. Despite the clear evidence that the actual
health risk posed was very mild at best.



7. The AHPRA lack of due diligence on Safety and their action with ATAGI to Silence Doctors
Who Decided To Do the Opposite of the 2019 Australian Health management plan for
pandemic influenza which prophetically described why all of the actions the government did
take would not work?

Prior to the covid vaccine rollout in 2021, AHPRA circulated a letter to Australian Health
Professionals, prohibiting them from advising patients of the risks involved with taking the covid
vaccine. Effectively, this removed the concept of informed consent, where a medical
professional must inform a patient of the true risks, before taking any medicinal treatment. This
is a violation of the Hippocratic oath to do no harm.

8. Suicides within the timeframe of the pandemic from 2020 which is ongoing.

At the peak of the lockdowns in Victoria during 2020 , there were 100 suicides every week. It
stands to reason that this figure was replicated across the country as a result of stress ,despair
and isolation.

Question: Why is there no investigation into the number of Australian suicides during the covid
period.



Personal impact of Federal government covid policies

What impacted me personally was the severe lockdowns instigated by the then premier
Daniel Andrews who shut down , schools ,gyms, swimming pools and even children's
playgrounds, without any scientific evidence what so ever of a risk from covid. I still want to
see the evidence NOW. I am an outdoor person, highly physically active, doing such things as
bike riding, swimming, hiking, running, bushwalking, therefore locking me down has caused
me to become severely depressed within that time. I will never forget Premier Daniel
Andrews, and what he did to me personally. Daniel Andrews must be made accountable for
crimes against the Victorian people. Having to endure 267 days of lockdowns was criminal. /
want to point out that the lockdowns would never have happened without the financial
support of the Liberal Federal government.



My                     experience, in Victoria , was one of complete isolation from the!
                       ^^^^^^^|who were not allowed to visit her. She has no other
                                                  was living alone, we had not met as yet.

She said that she felt discriminated against by the people in
because she



She is allergic to
         an anaphylactic. She was afraid for her life when the Federal government and a
doctor who was not her doctor was urging her to have the covid vaccine via a letter in the
mail, phone calls and text messages. This all added to her anxiety, and put a lot of stress on
her. She feared for her life and still does, if she is vaccinated. She was advised by a hospital
specialist not to have another vaccine of any type.



Regards
David ^^^^^^Ayers
