Submission and evidence to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry
Introduction
I wish to address the Inquiry as an individual Australian citizen with concerns regarding the
implementation of the COVID-19 response and my experience as a result of that implementation, and
potential future responses in the event of a similar situation occurring (in particular future pandemics).

Key Points
    1.       Governance

         I have concerns regarding the failure by both legislative and administrative arms of the
         Commonwealth Government to comply with it’s international obligations to protect the
         Human Rights of it’s citizens in accordance with the Nuremberg Code of 1947 (to which the
         Government is a signatory), to ensure the requirement of voluntary informed consent of the
         human subject to any medical treatment. It is noted that the Therapeutic Goods Association
         of Australian did not give full registration to any of the COVID-19 vaccinations until 21 April
         2023 at the earliest, well after the pandemic status was withdrawn by the Commonwealth
         Government. Prior to that date all vaccinations were only provisionally approved, and
         accordingly should be considered ‘experimental’.

         The Code states that an individual must “be able to exercise free power of choice, without the
         intervention of any element offorce, fraud, deceit, duress, overreaching, or other ulterior
         form of constraint or coercion; and should have sufficient knowledge and comprehension of
         the elements of the subject matter involved as to enable him to make an understanding and
         enlightened decision".

         The Commonwealth Government simply ignored it’s obligations under the Nuremberg Code
         and transferred responsibility onto the State Governments and private enterprise. As a result
         thousands of Australian citizens, of which I am one, have suffered degrading treatment from
         the implementation of campaigns for vaccinations and policies which impacted on social
         standing, caused ostracision from both colleagues, friends and family, reduced access to
         public life, and ultimately resulted in loss of employment. This caused both financial stress
         and psychological distress which is ongoing for many.

         Freedom of thought, and acting in accordance with one’s own conscience and belief, based on
         independent research were discouraged and treated as being against the ‘public interest’.
         This is fundamentally against the Australian culture, and insults the memory of my ancestors
         who died protecting those rights.

         Two Bills introduced to the Federal Government, the COVID-19 Vaccination Status
         (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting
         COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023, would have addressed these issues to protect
         the Human Rights of all Australian citizens. These Bills should be reconsidered and
         introduced again to safeguard against threatened encroachments on Human Rights.
2.       Public Health Messaging

     The Public Health messaging, particularly that put forward by the Health Minister, and
     supported by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), purported that the vaccinations
     were safe and effective, after analysis by the TGA. The TGA did not give full registration to
     any of the COVID-19 vaccinations until 21 April 2023 at the earliest, well after the pandemic
     status was withdrawn by the Commonwealth Government. Prior to that date all vaccinations
     were only provisionally approved. This did not form any part of the public health messaging,
     and accordingly Australian citizens were unable to consider potential risks from what was not
     a fully approved treatment, but instead an experimental treatment.

     Also Health Practitioners were unable to give full and frank consideration and advice to
     patients regarding the benefits and possible side effects (particularly long term) of the
     vaccinations which was outside the Government narrative, nor were they able to consider
     alternate treatments to that narrative. {Attached Letter by Associate Professor Christopher
     Neil, Australian Medical Professionals Society - referred to as “Dr Altman Report’’)

     Health Practitioners were also (anecdotally) unable to freely consider and report on the results
     of negative impact on patient health as a result of receiving the vaccinations, without
     censorship from the government authorities.

     This clearly did not allow citizens to give fully infonned and voluntary consent prior to the
     receipt of the vaccinations.

3.       Broader impacts by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns

     Government policies and messaging, failed to address or consider fundamental Human
     Rights, or alternative treatments and policies which would have negated the necessity for the
     lockdowns, causing significant financial stresses, ongoing psychological harms, and physical
     harms caused by negative reactions to what was an experimental treatment.
