I am Graham Nicol, a CPA and Real Estate and Business Agent, and sole director of Beach Stays Australia
Pty Ltd, trading as Executive Escapes in Western Australia. Executive Escapes manages a portfolio of
properties for owners engaged in supplying accommodation to primarily the tourist market.

At the commencement of measures to contain covid in March 2020, movement of people was severely
restricted, causing mass cancellations of accommodation bookings for the foreseeable future. The
business was only sustainable because of the 'Jobkeeper' programme put promptly in place by the
Federal Government. Executive Escapes was able to continue to provide services to primarily those
travellers who were not able to return to their homes interstate or overseas, and a source of income
to staff, contractors and property owners.

The Jobkeeper programme ceased at end of March 2021, and was replaced by a Commonwealth
backed loan offer-the SME Recovery Loan Scheme. Two early iterations, Phase 1 and 2, were replaced
by Phase 3 which included some modifications to address some difficulties faced by applicants for
those Schemes. The Schemes were intended to provide means for previously viable businesses which
were financially impacted by the covid restrictions, to survive the continuing impact of the lockdowns
to be able to emerge eventually with resources to return them to robust health. The scope of the
loans was wide, allowing replenishment of working capital, renegotiation/replacement of existing
loans, and expansion of business operations repayable over a period of up to ten years at low interest.

Loan applications were to be made through participating banks and subject to their normal
sustainability measures. The Commonwealth guaranteed the repayment of the loans to the extent of
80% initially, later reduced to 50%. Refer https://treasury.gov.au/coronavirus/sme-recovery-loan-
scheme

Faced with a continuation of the strict lockdown measures for an indefinite period, of course many
affected businesses at this time would be attracted to this offer to avoid closure and financial
hardship/loss of capital due to otherwise unsustainable continuing loss of sufficient income. It would
be expected of the Government officials who were planning and implementing the Scheme (Treasury)
to be aware of their responsibility to provide a practical lifeline to sustainable businesses, providing
guidance through consultancy, and clarifying the sustainability process, to allow business operators to
properly assess their chances of a successful loan application. They would have been aware of the time
needed to assemble loan applications, including negotiation of existing loan agreements repayment,
determining working capital requirements, negotiating business acquisitions, preparing financial
statements, consolidations and forecasts, and the cost of continuing losses whilst the assembly of the
loan application was in preparation.

That Treasury did not fulfil its obligations is the argument here. Although I cannot speak for others,
and curiously there has been no opportunity made to date for a forum in which to share experiences,
I can recount mine in this matter:

    •    Negotiation, compilation and presentation process was completed in six months, including
         ATO, private lender, 2 purchases of similar businesses, financial modelling and sustainability
         checks
    •        2 months presenting and discussing with 4 banks, all who rejected the application. Disclosure
         by one bank manager (only) of the additional sustainability requirements imposed on these
         loans:
             o    Tax debt cannot be included
             o    When looking at previous year business performance, all Jobkeeper payments
                  excluded
        o   Previous year's financial situation excluded, and future contributions excluded from
            bottom line. In essence only existing operations included in serviceability calculations

        Resulting in an obvious failure in serviceability even before any stress testing. It is my
        contention, as a professional accountant with many years of presentation of loan
        applications to banks, that all the serviceability criteria would have been sought by
        responsible Treasury officials and communicated to intending applicants to allow them to
       fully assess the situation and possible losses before proceeding. Failure to do so for most
        professionals would result in probable litigation under the various consumer protection
        laws

•       Losses to that date of         working capital and an indebtedness to the ATO of
    in unpaid PAYG and GST
•   On advice from the ATO, I prepared a CDDA (Claim for Damages from Defective Administration)
    and presented it to Treasury, claiming the approx. S^^^Hdamages
•       8 months later, Treasury refused the claim
•   An appeal to the Commonwealth Ombudsman is still awaiting allocation of an officer to
    investigate the matter after 4 months. Meanwhile, the cost of the decision to continue in
    business back in April 2021 is mounting, even though business is slowly returning to normal.
    At present the only beneficiaries of a forced sale will be the business's creditors.
