In response to this consultation, I would like to summarise a few points below:


   •   Lack of a preventative health strategy to minimise the chances of hospital admission.
       Unlike in some countries, Australia's advice for people with COVID was essentially to
       remain home, and ring for an ambulance if unable to breathe. Recommending the use
       of certain cheap and easily obtainable supplements, and other therapeutics, would have
       avoided many hospital admissions by curbing the severity of the condition. At the
       www.cl9early.com website that aggregates studies for all COVID-19 interventions, as of
       15/12/23, Nigella Sativa shows 69% improvement in early treatment, and Vitamin D
       shows 60% improvement.

       Unnecessary hospital admissions during a pandemic cost the taxpayer, and ultimately
       risk the lives of both those admitted with the pandemic condition, and those whose
       surgery is postponed to accommodate COVID patients. I believe that the reason for this
       unsuitable advice was, in part, in order to continue to marginalise the role of natural
       therapies in Australia's health system. The fact that lives were lost in the process is a
       matter of deep concern.

   •   Numerous scientific studies agreed that having a high Vitamin D level minimised the
       likelihood of hospital admission. It makes sense for members of the Australian public to
       optimise their body's Vitamin D, in order to boost overall health, and to be ready for any
       possible future pandemic.


   •   The rejection of unpatented therapeutics in early treatment, especially in the critical
       time between the start of measures to tackle COVID-19 and the rollout of vaccine. By
       April 2020, it had already been determined that hydroxychloroquine was a very
       promising treatment, but as soon as it had been championed by then President Trump,
       a propaganda campaign began against it. The full hydroxychloroquine story is laid out at
       www.tabletmag.com/sections/science/articles/hydroxychloroquine-morality-tale At
       www.cl9early.com hydroxychloroquine shows a 65% early-treatment improvement,
       based on 38 studies.

       By about October 2020, studies had confirmed ivermectin as effective against COVID. Its
       current early treatment improvement score at www.cl9early.com is 62%, based on 37
       studies. This was followed by a remarkably aggressive misleading propaganda campaign
       against the drug, one that was unparalleled in living memory. In the case of both drugs,
       the Australian health authorities promoted such misleading messaging, and in the case
       of ivermectin, prevented it from being prescribed while classing it as a poison, despite
       the fact that the drug, in human tablet form, is far safer than aspirin.

       If either or both of these drugs had been widely adopted in Australia, as they were
       adopted in some other countries, many lives would have been saved via their
       effectiveness in ending COVID infections before these became dangerous, and by
    removing the need for extended lockdowns that claimed of lives of too many people to
    suicide.


•   The continued inappropriate use of the patented drug remdesivir in hospital settings, in
    contravention of WHO advice reflecting its ineffectiveness. This drug is notable for the
    harm it does to the health of people who take it, for its enormous price (worn by
    Australian taxpayers), and for the fact that - I understand - the TGA approved it after
    just one scientific study had been released.

•   Australia's reliance on COVID-19 vaccines from early 2021 onward as a centrepiece of
    treatment strategy. This vaccine rollout was unnecessary, given that unpatented
    therapeutics had already offered a way out of COVID-19.

•   Australia's reliance on vaccine manufacturer hype relating to safety and effectiveness
    instead of conducting its own independent tests. This messaging began with claims of
    95% effectiveness, which were later backpedalled to the point where most of the
    original claims had been abandoned or massively scaled down. In comparison,
    ivermectin is a stellar COVID prophylaxis, showing 85% effectiveness based on 17
    studies. Ivermectin has the additional advantages of being very safe and very cheap.

•   There has been a concerning lack of government interest in investigating DNA
    contamination of mRNA COVID vaccines, and the potential ramifications of this
    contamination.

•   I do not support the Federal Government's use of vaccine mandates for its employees,
    and any sentiments it may have expressed for employment-related vaccine mandates.

•   Vaccine harm denial. The TGA's approach to COVID vaccine injury has been to rule it out
    as a cause of death in all but a handful of cases. This ignores a likelihood of massive
    under-reporting of vaccine adverse events in Australia due to factors such as hospital
    staff in emergency rooms being too busy to submit them, a pro-vaccine ideological bias
    among many medical staff that considers adverse event reporting to be a form of anti­
    vaccine activism, and a lack of public knowledge about reporting by those affected.
    Working with what is in likelihood a highly deficient pool of reports, the TGA has
    dismissed COVID vaccines as a cause of death in cases where this is highly or somewhat
    likely, based on the TGA's incredibly strict criteria. As a regulator, the TGA's pervasive
    pro-pharma bias might be tempered if that body were to stop receiving 96% of its
    funding from the industries that it regulates.

•   Anomalous excess mortality since the start of COVID vaccination has not been
    investigated, and this reflects a remarkable and potentially suspicious lack of curiosity. I
    am in no doubt that COVID vaccines are the primary cause of this phenomenon, and I
    believe that an independent and unbiased investigation is needed.
•   AHPRA and narrative control. The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency
    issued a communication early in the pandemic which threatened any medical
    practitioner who departed from a monolithic narrative on COVID-19. This is remarkable,
    because it seems as though AHPRA was anticipating substantial dissent and wanted to
    preemptively squash it. If the official narrative isn't full of holes and inconsistencies,
    then it will not attract a critical reaction.

•   lam very supportive of Australia's role in proactively raising the lab leak hypothesis in
    the international arena at a time when this perspective was being widely disfavoured,
    prior to its wider acceptance today..


•   lam appalled by the use of unconventional weaponry against protestors in Canberra. In
    February 2022, when protestors gathered in Canberra to protest against vaccine
    mandates, they were assailed with an unconventional technology that caused burns
    underneath clothing and hats, some severe, to those who were present near Parliament
    House. This incident was subject to a near total media blackout. The fact that Australian
    Federal Police or similar authorities could attack Australians in this manner is deeply
    disturbing.
