Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
To the Members of the Independent Panel,
I am very seriously disappointed with the Government’s decision to establish this Inquiry
rather than a royal commission which would have the necessary power and authority to
obtain the truth and been appropriate given the extremely high cost to the Nation.
Further, I am very seriously disappointed with the Government’s decision to exclude
actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments. Their actions divided
Australia and they heavy-handedly trampled on citizen’s rights. It was not too much to
expect them to be able to agree a standard suite of protections to protect their citizens that
did not include divisive border closures and other harsh measures. The aggressive police
involvement bordered on a totalitarian action, a National shame.
I urge the Inquiry to strongly recommend that the terms of reference be extended to
include actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments and to identify ways in
which, a unified national response to a global health emergency might be legislated, rather
than leave Australia open to another free-for-all independent, state/territory response. The
current legislation facilitated a corrosive politically campaign by the predominately Labor
states/territories against the Liberal/NP Federal Government.
It appeared that the chief health officers in each jurisdiction had too much influence on
decisions and the public. My suggestion would be to keep them away from the public and
weigh their advice against the communities overall need to: protect the vulnerable,
educate children, restrain public expenditure, provide access to vital health care, promote
individual health, etc. The sole spokesperson should have been the Prime Minister,
Premier or Chief Minister, not the daily scaremongering circus that reappeared every day:
even when COVID-19 number were minimal. Nowhere did any authority put the death toll
into perspective. From the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare website, in 2021,
there were approximately 171,469 deaths in Australia (89,401 males; 82,068 females). In
2021, there were 1,122 deaths due to COVID-19 registered in Australia. It seems that
deaths due to COVID-19 figures are not available for 2022. Whilst death should be
prevented where possible, the cost to the community must be kept in balance. As of
November 2022 it is estimated that the vast majority of the Australian population, upward
of eight out of 10 people, have had COVID, it might be argued that the existing COVID
death toll is the death toll we were going to have expect for maybe an increase due to
some swamping of medical facilities.
I am pleased that the Inquiry will consider the findings of previous relevant inquiries and
reviews and identify knowledge gaps for further investigation. It will also consider the
global experience and lessons learnt from other countries in order to improve response
measures in the event of future global pandemics. In particular my expectation is that
Sweden’s response will be studied and considered very seriously as an alternative model
for any future unfortunate global health emergencies.
In conclusion, by not establishing a royal commission, I believe that the Labor Government
has chosen to trivialise and play politics with something that has had a profound long-term,
negative impact on every aspect of Australia and its population. Nothing short of an
inclusive royal commission will satisfy me.
Anyhow, let us hope this inquiry, extended as suggested, delivers some future benefits to
the tax payer.
