11 December 2023

To whom it may concern,

This submission is in response to what I experienced personally as teacher, parent, wife, friend,
colleague and citizen of NSW Australia and how I see the role of government now, after experiencing
what is likely the most eye opening, life changing and dehumanising ordeal of my life. This is a history
I would rather forget, as would most Australians.

I refer specifically to the government's misinformation regarding the safety and efficacy of the covid
vaccines. No evidence was provided for safety and efficacy and the doctor patient relationship was
overruled and ruined forever. Hippocrates would take his oath back " First do no harm" if he could.

The "2 weeks to flatten the curve" was another baseless lie, purported on zero data and no
evidence.

The mandates were illegal, yet everyone had to "Get the Vaxx" to keep their jobs and keep everyone
safe. Lies. I left my job and my children faced ridicule and bullying at school for not getting the
"vaccine". Schools now face incredible teacher shortages, because many teachers did not take the
vaccines and cannot work in a system that indoctrinates children and doesn't allow for critical
thinking and questioning propaganda that is quickly labelled as conspiracy. I left a career with my
head held high, while my colleagues are still proud of taking their vaccines, which left my closet
friend with breast cancer, directly after her vaccine. How do I provide proof for that? Is it just
coincidence that so many people are "Dying suddenly"? Have you ever heard of turbo cancer
before? Why is myocarditis now a common affliction? The vaccines are not safe or effective.

It is not a vaccine, but gene therapy, as stated initially by anyone that did some research. Lies.

The TGA approved the vaccines and the data for safety was not there. Pfizer hid the data, they
botched the trials. A Pfizer whistleblower reported on the fraudulent practices to the British Medical
Journal (BMJ), and yet the state governments still enforced mandates and fined people for leaving
their homes, or not wearing masks. The fines were eventually dropped. No apology.

The vaccines did not work. The covid virus was transmitted by vaccinated individuals.

        How can we respond to a pandemic in the future?

Do not listen to the WHO. They are not our elected government officials.

Do not sign the WHO treaty, we are a sovereign nation, a democracy, we can make our own
decisions based on our actual laws, not mandates that took away basic human rights. Sweden's
response gave its citizen a choice, they didn't enforce anything, and they lived to tell the story.
Australians do not trust their government anymore. You sold us out.

Look at what worked... Nothing stopped covid, nothing the WHO recommended stopped the spread.
Nothing. We should have nothing to do with their vaccine army.

Never lock us down again. What evidence did the Minister for Health have to justify the lockdowns
and vaccinate healthy people?

Never tell us how to keep ourselves safe. Herd immunity was not what we heard at all.

Never take away our freedom of choice, 'public health should achieve community health in a way
that respects the rights of individuals in the community.' (Public Health Leadership Society) I have
never felt more dehumanised, criticised and ridiculed in my life, by people who took the jab, because
everyone else did. I have lost friends and family over this and left my job and moved away from the
city I was born in. I am a displaced person in my own country.

The Australian people have been lied to for long enough.

You are elected by the people for the people. You willingly enforced vaccines onto our population
and for that insidious decision, the government needs to be held accountable.

This submission won't be read or published. I wrote it because I want to be accountable for my part
in the covid fiasco. I marched in Canberra with millions of people, and I know there are more people
like me, hiding in the fray. We are ordinary people, who see the extraordinary lengths our
government has gone to sell us out, hung us out to dry and will waste our money on their wages,
com cars and massive staff that cannot serve the public unless they "take it on notice". Take this on
notice, we are waking up, we are more aware and the people don't want any more lies, deception
and poison fed to us. I so wish you cared, and I wish you well.

Kindest regards, from a once gifted and talented teacher who still has gifts and talents, but can't
share them, because free thought, free speech and imagination are part of our history, not our
future. God save Australia.
