14 December 2023

TO: Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
PO Box 6500
Canberra, ACT 2600


RE: Commonwealth Government CO VID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Officer

I am a health practitioner in private practice, with a research degree in public health. I have many
concerns about the ways in which the Australian government’s response to CO VID-19 departed
from established public health principles. To fulfil its stated purpose of “inform[ing]
recommendations that aim to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics” the COVID-
19 Response Inquiry Panel should address, at bare minimum, the following questions:


1. Why did the Commonwealth and State government responses to COVID-19
not follow the Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza'?
Which individuals or bodies made the decision to not follow this Plan, and on
what basis?

The Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza (AHMPPI) was last updated in
August 2019 - just six months before then-Prime Minister Scott Morrison declared the COVID-19
outbreak a national pandemic, on T1 February 2020. This extensively-referenced document lays out
an evidence-based approach to the management of influenza pandemics, informed by lessons
learned from previous pandemics.

Although SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of COVID-19, is a coronavirus rather than an influenza
virus, both its modes of transmission, and the clinical presentation of infection, are so similar to
influenza that the AHMPPI was entirely appropriate to guide the public health response to COVID-
19. SARS-CoV-2 fulfils the AHMPPI’s criteria for classifying a virus as “low clinical severity”
(p.22): “The majority of cases are likely to experience mild to moderate clinical features.
People in at-risk groups may experience more severe illness.”

The AHMPPI:
   • Does not recommend community masking of asymptomatic individuals, and acknowledges
      that there is “no evidence” that mask wearing by symptomatic individuals in the community
      reduces infection in the community (p. 124).
   • Does not recommend school closures except when there is evidence of high clinical severity,
      complication rates and/or high transmissibility specifically in children - none of which
      applies to SARS-CoV-2 (pp. 145-6).
   • Does not recommend workplace closure, working from home, or cancellation of mass
      gatherings except for pandemics with a moderate to high clinical severity (pp. 147-9).
   • Specifically recommends against the use of thermal scanners in airports and other ports of
      entry (p. 136); screening of passengers on cruise ships prior to disembarkation for viruses
      with low or moderate clinical severity (p. 138); and internal travel restrictions (i.e.
      “restriction of travel across state or territory borders, or within certain areas of a state or
      territory, either to protect remote communities or to isolate areas with higher rates of
      exposure” - p. 142).
    •    Recommends ceasing recommendations for voluntary isolation of ill travellers at borders,
         once community transmission is established (p. 139), and contains no recommendation for
         universal, mandatory quarantine at either national or State borders.
    •    Recommends voluntary self-isolation of cases (p. 150) and voluntary quarantine of contacts
         (p. 151); neither of these recommendations could possibly be construed as supporting
         mandatory hotel quarantining or quarantine camps for interstate travellers or international
         arrivals.
    •        Recommends contact tracing only in the early stage of a pandemic of a novel agent (p. 152).

According to section 2.9 (p. 23), “The primary parties to the AHMPPI will be the Australian
Government Department of Health (Department of Health) and State and Territory Health
Departments. Yet each of the aforementioned recommendations of the AHMPPI were contravened
by the Australian Commonwealth and/or State Governments.

When was the decision made to formulate COVID-19 policies without regard to the AHMPPI, by
whom, and at whose behest? Why did neither the Commonwealth Minister for Health, nor senior
public servants within the Department of Health, call attention to these departures from the
AHMPPI and urge that Commonwealth and State COVID-19 policies be brought back in line with
its evidence-based recommendations?


2. Why did the Commonwealth government permit State governments and
private sector employers to impose vaccine mandates that clearly violated the
rights of Australians to receive informed consent on medical treatments, and to
be protected against discrimination on the basis of their medical records? Why
did the Commonwealth government permit State governments to impose vaccine
passes that contravened Australians’ right to maintain the privacy of their
medical information?

As a party to the UN Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights11, and the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights111, Australia has affirmed its commitment to upholding the fundamental
human rights of its citizens to make fully-informed and autonomous decisions about their medical
care.

For example, Article 3 of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights states that

         1.       Human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms are to be fully respected.
         2. The interests and welfare of the individual should have priority over the sole interest of
        science or society.
Article 6, Clause 1 states that
        Any preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be carried out with
        the prior, free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate information.
        The consent should, where appropriate, be express and may be withdrawn by the person
        concerned at any time and for any reason without disadvantage or prejudice.
Article 11 states that
        No individual or group should be discriminated against or stigmatized on any grounds, in
        violation of human dignity, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Yet Australians’ fundamental human rightslv - including freedom of association, freedom of
movement and the right to work and to freely participate in the cultural life of the community -
were violated by vaccine passes that excluded unvaccinated individuals from retail, recreational,
sporting and cultural venues, and from travelling interstate and internationally; and by vaccine
mandates that denied unvaccinated individuals the right to work in their chosen occupation.
Australians who were at extremely low risk of serious COVID-related illness, and who did not wish
to take vaccines with no long-term safety data, were pressured, coerced, shamed and intimidated
into taking COVID vaccines ‘to protect others’ rather than for their own benefit. This was done in
direct contravention of Article 3 of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights, and
despite the Australian Public Assessment Reports for each vaccine admitting that the ability of these
products to prevent viral transmission had not been establishedv - thereby invalidating the
government’s claim that individuals had a moral duty to get vaccinated for the good of others.
Senior politicians, including Premiers, Chief Ministers and the Prime Minister, stigmatised
unvaccinated Australians and blamed them for governments’ own refusal to restore the fundamental
human rights that they had improperly abrogated.

At no point during the COVID-19 did the Australian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) fulfil its
charter to protect the human rights guaranteed under the treaties to which Australia is a party. The
AHRC failed to perform its statutory duty to report any of the multitude of public health ordinances
and employer-imposed mandates that violated human rights, to the relevant Minister. It also failed
to respond adequately to the deluge of complaints of human rights violations, and requests for
assistance in matters of human rights, made by the public during the CO VID-19 pandemic. The
Australian public had no effective protection against the serious violations of their human rights that
were committed by both Commonwealth and State governments, in the course of instituting policies
that directly contradicted the Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza.

Why did the AHRC fail to perform its statutory duties during the COVID-19 pandemic? What
instructions were given to AHRC staff with respect to the unprecedented volume of complaints and
requests for assistance received from the public, and by whom?


3. Why has the Commonwealth Government ignored, downplayed or
misrepresented multiple indicators that COVID-19 vaccines are neither safe nor
effective?


The Database of Adverse Events (DAEN) has, from the beginning of the CO VID-19 vaccine roll­
out, thrown off clear safety signals indicating that these products are associated with a
disproportionately high rate of adverse events, including serious adverse events and death. The
Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) has downplayed these safety signals, claiming without
evidence that the high number of adverse events reports is a consequence of efforts to promote
reporting. On the contrary, prominent doctors, including former Australian Medical Association
(AMA) president, Dr                    have publicly asserted that serious adverse events are both
underreported and underinvestigated, because of pressure exerted on healthcare providers by the
Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA)". Attempts by elected representatives
to gain concrete information on how TGA ascertains whether a reported adverse reaction is causally
related to a vaccine, and whether autopsies have been performed on people who died after receiving
a COVID-19 vaccine, have been met with evasive responses.
Excess mortality was below expected levels during 2020, and rose slightly in 2021 and dramatically
in 2022™. The greatest increase in excess mortality occurred after the vast majority of the
Australian population had received at least two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine, and after Omicron -
a variant associated with mild clinical illness - had become the dominant circulating variant of
SARS-CoV-2. The Australian Medical Professionals Society has extensively documented the
unprecedented increase in excess mortality in their ebook, Too Many Dead'"'. At the very least, it is
self-evident that COVID-19 vaccines have failed to protect the Australian population against the
most serious outcome of SARS-CoV-2 infection, namely death. It is patently absurd to argue that
without near-universal vaccination, many thousands more Australians would have died of COVID-
19 when in fact, excess mortality was at least 3.4 standard deviations above the mean in 2022.

Multiple statistical analyses correlate COVID-19 vaccinations with excess mortality, especially in
elderly people 1XX X1X11. Being ‘up to date’ with COVID-19 vaccination was found to increase the risk
of SARS-CoV-2 infection™. Analysis of data from the phase 3 clinical trials for the two mRNA
COVID-19 vaccines used in Australia, found that the excess risk of serious adverse events
attributable to these products was higher than the risk reduction for CO VID-19 hospitalisation
relative to the placebo group™. Yet governments continue to promote COVID-19 vaccines to the
Australian population, claiming - contrary to available evidence - that they reduce the risk of
serious illness and death.

How does the TGA analyse adverse events after COVID-19 vaccines, reported to DAEN? Are
autopsies being carried out on people who died after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine? Why has no
investigation of the unprecedented levels of excess death in 2022 and 2023 been carried out - and
why did the Senate block an inquiry into excess deaths?

Finally, I believe that only a properly-constituted Royal Commission will have the scope, authority
and capacity to thoroughly investigate the many policy decisions in response to COVID-19 that
resulted in catastrophic damage to the Australian economy, egregious violations of human rights,
ongoing historically unprecedented excess mortality, spiralling rates of chronic illness and disability
stemming from adverse effects of COVID-19 vaccines, and a breakdown in the social fabric of this
nation that will take many years to repair.

The 2023 Edelman Trust Barometer" reported that Australians do not trust government, the media,
NGOs or business. Is it merely a coincidence that all these institutions participated in promoting a
narrative about COVID-19 that was, at best, misleading, and a suite of policy responses to it that
inflicted multiple harms on the public? If the Commonwealth Government is truly interested in
learning lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic, the Inquiry should forthrightly address the causes
of this loss of trust, which are rooted in its multitudinous and grave policy failures.

Yours sincerely

Robyn Chuter BHSc(Hons).
i    https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/05/australian-health-management-plan-for-pandemic-
     influenza-ahmppi.pdf
ii https://www.unesco.org/en/legal-affairs/universal-declaration-bioethics-and-human-rights?hub=66535
iii https://humanrights.gov.au/our-work/commission-general/international-covenant-civil-and-political-rights-human-
     rights-your
iv https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights
v https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/auspar-bntl62b2-mrna-210125.pdf ,
     https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/auspar-elasomeran.pdf , https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/auspar-
     chadox-l-s-220217.pdf
vi https://thewest.com.au/news/coronavirus/covid-19-doctors-for-and-against-coronavirus-vaccine-claim-medical-
     regulator-ahpra-has-silenced-them--c-9041979
vii https://www.abs.gov.au/articles/measuring-australias-excess-mortality-during-covid-19-pandemic-until-first-
     quarter-2023
viii https://socialmedianpa.gumroad.eom/l/toomanydead
ix https://www.researchgate.net/publication/368426122 Australian COVID-
     19 pandemic A Bradford Hill analysis of iatrogenic excess mortality
x https://www.researchgate.net/publication/
     371342838 Simpson's Paradox in the correlations between excess mortality and COVID-
     19 injections a case study of iatrogenic pandemic for elderly Australians
xi https://correlation-canada.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/2023-02-09-Correlation-Age-stratified-vaccine-dose-
     fatality-Israel-Australia.pdf
xii https://correlation-canada.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/2023-09-17-Correlation-Covid-vaccine-mortality-
     Southern-Hemisphere-cor.pdf
xiii https://joumals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone. 0293449
xiv https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9428332/
xv https://www.edelman.com.aU/trust/2023/trust-barometer#download
