                     “Sick and tired” of waiting for a government response
                                    to the Long Covid Inquiry
Background

The Health Minister Mark Butler MP referred the Federal Health Committee to inquire into and report on Long COVID and
Repeated COVID infections. On 24 April 2023 the Committee published its report “Sick and Tired: Casting a Long
Shadow,” which included nine unanimous recommendations. Apart from an initial announcement of funding for Long
COVID research from the Medical Research Future Fund, there has been, to date, no government response to the Health
Committee’s recommendations.

The Long COVID and Repeated COVID Infections Inquiry is a key pandemic health response measure, with its report
aiming to improve Australia’s response to Long COVID. Long COVID was identified by the Australian Government as a
central focus area for Australia’s COVID-19 response (alongside COVID-19 vaccines and treatments) in its National
COVID-19 Health Management Plan for 2023. This plan emphasised the need to investigate the longer-term effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic in Australia1.

The Health Committee was an appropriately qualified group to task with both investigating the impact of Long
COVID/repeated COVID infections, and providing recommendations to the Health Minister so Australia can best address
this chronic phase of the ongoing pandemic. It is a worthwhile exercise to evaluate this response so that the effectiveness
of future pandemic Inquiries can be maximised.

Positives

Health committee appointments

The appointments to the House Standing Committee on Health, Aged Care and Sport were exemplary and exceedingly
well suited for this pandemic inquiry. The Health Committee was no group of career politicians in a Canberra bubble - it
was populated by esteemed doctors with extensive experience in health and medical fields, eminently qualified to advise
the government on how to deal with a complicated challenge such as Long COVID. The committee included^M^M


in good hands: it was conducted in good faith, in a timely manner, and took a strong evidence-based approach.

High level participation

There was an unprecedented and highly significant response to the Long COVID and Repeated COVID infections Inquiry.
The Inquiry received 566 submissions from a wide range of sources; these included world class experts, organisations,
government bodies and a substantial number of Australian citizens, many of whom were patients grappling with Long
COVID. It is testament to the importance of sharing their painful lived experience that this cohort of patients living with
Long COVID and experiencing debilitating fatigue, pain and symptoms, nonetheless went to considerable effort to
contribute invaluable submissions.

The Health Committee conducted four public hearings and round table discussions, hearing from and questioning a wide
array of speakers; these included doctors, people living with Long COVID, an epidemiologist, an aerosol scientist, a
world-renowned air quality expert, a schoolteacher representative, a well-respected microbiologist, and a phenomics
expert. Indeed, the evidence given in the Inquiry’s public hearings attracted global interest. In its report the Committee
expressed its appreciation of “the strong public engagement in this inquiry, including from many individuals that have not
participated in House of Representatives parliamentary committee inquiries previously”1.


Comprehensive report

As promised, the delivered report was a “good, informative framework for the future”.1 As well as a comprehensive
resource covering definitions, it covered: research (both current and future); improvements to data collection; lived
experience of Long COVID; tools to prevent Long COVID (including vaccines, antiviral treatments and measures to
improve indoor air quality); healthcare response to Long COVID including diagnosis, treatment and management;
and education and training of Australia’s health workforce.

High quality, evidence-based, proportionate recommendations

The report’s comprehensive recommendations included: data collection; research; vaccine communication; expanded
eligibility for antiviral treatments; support and education for GPs (in areas of diagnosis/management of Long COVID,
mental health and digital health resources); Indoor Air Quality Standards; funding for ME/CFS research and patient
support; and a COVID summit3.
Negative

Significant delay in government action

As I submit this, it is approximately 280 days since Health Minister Butler received the Inquiry recommendations and
there still has been no government response, despite assurances it would be tabled before the end of 2023. It is entirely
unacceptable in a Long COVID public health crisis, growing by the day, that the government has not responded to the
timely and high-quality advice of its Health Committee.

Since these recommendations were handed to the government, Australia has experienced two further significant waves
with no action on any of the important and helpful recommendations. No action on expanding eligibility of antivirals or
better vaccine communications, no data collection, no progress on IAQ, no education for GPs on how to diagnose Long
COVID. It is likely that hundreds of thousands of Australians have been chronically disabled by Long COVID since
Minister Butler received the advice. It is nothing short of a Public Health failure to have failed to act in a timely manner.

Indeed, the Australian public has taken more action than Minister Butler has, with a petitioi^a|lincyoi^h^‘Uraen^
Implementatiorwf all Recommendations of the Long COVID Inquiry”2. Organised
                    the petition received nearly 7,500 signatures within the first two weeks of its launch. To illustrate the
ongoing impacts of Long COVID on Australians, I have included below just a handful of the comments posted by those
signing the petition.

Conclusion

The Federal Inquiry into Long COVID and Repeated COVID Infections was overseen by a high calibre committee delving
into the complexities of the condition, consulting experts and patients, and providing credible, evidence-based
recommendations formed through a comprehensive understanding of the issues. It was imperative that the government
act swiftly to implement. Delaying implementation by nine months (and counting), especially in the face of subsequent
waves of COVID and a growing number of Australians disabled, has only amplified the urgency. Each passing day
without action exacerbates the impact on affected individuals and strains an already overburdened healthcare system.

Implementing the recommendations promptly would have demonstrated a commitment to public health, prioritising the
well-being of Australian citizens. A timely response could have been pivotal in mitigating the long-term consequences of
the pandemic on individuals, the healthcare system, the broader community and the economy.

It is deeply concerning that the recommendations continue to languish when they demand immediate attention. It
undermines the purpose of seeking expert recommendations, means missed opportunities for timely interventions, and
reflects a disregard for public health. Furthermore, such inaction undermines public trust, hinders effective policymaking
and prolongs the suffering of those affected by Long COVID. It is important for future governments to recognise that
pandemic inquiries regarding current challenges must be expedited and actioned urgently to safeguard public health.
Thank you for the opportunity to submit to the Covid Response Inquiry.

Petition Comments


    •   Implementation of the inquiry recommendations is long overdue. Meanwhile those of us with long COVID are
        suffering and feeling ignored and unsupported.

    •   As a person living with long Covid, who had other pre-existing medical conditions, I am appalled at the lack of
        medical help available. God help us if another deadly pandemic occurs as we have learnt nothing from this
        current one.

    •        I need the government to get serious about long Covid. The economy will tank with too many off forever sick.

    •   Very concerned about the lack of action on this when it is clear, there are severe health risks associated with long
        Covid. The health costs will be enormous, if it continues to be ignored, as well as a tragic cost to human health
        and happiness.

    •        Ignoring these recommendations is actively inflicting harm on Australians.

    •        I have long Covid. I am isolated, lonely and nervous for the future of wave after wave. We need help and support.

    •        There is an urgent need for a national plan.

    •   I have long Covid and I’m sick of having to fight for treatments and understanding from most of the medical
        fraternity.
        If recommendations are not carried out in full, this will end in great cost for the Australian government and
        citizens.

   •    Long Covid has the potential to cripple Australia economically, socially, culturally, and will also impact adversely
        on people's health and well-being.

   •         The recommendations make sense and implementing them is possible in this country.

   •         These recommendations should be a mandatory minimum effort to combat the continuing long Covid emergency.

   •    I have long Covid, and I feel more or less abandoned by the government and the medical profession. We need
        action and more resources devoted to long Covid.

   •    Enacting the recommendations will save the economy by improving health outcomes and preventing workforce
        dropout.

   •         Something needs to be done at a structural level to deal with Covid. Individual responsibility does not work.

   •         This is a national issue which needs national action.

   •         Long Covid is an urgent and severe problem. It deserves the highest priority from the Health Minister.

   •    The Australian government is dropping the ball on protecting the public from severe health outcomes of long
        Covid.

   •    Ignoring the recommendations risks our health and economic stability. Swift action is crucial for the well-being of
        all Australians, making the inquiry’s findings not just valuable insights but essential directives.

   •         Well, we shouldn’t need a petition to remind the minister to do his job. But here we are.

   •    I have been disabled by long Covid, and this will continue to be the fate of many others, unless our government
        takes these necessary steps.

   •    Implementing the recommendations of the long Covid enquiry is the very least this government should be doing
        to support people through the harm they are suffering.

   •    This report has been gathering dust on Mr Butler’s desk for far too long. More people are acquiring long Covid
        every day, and they need urgent support. Ignoring this problem will not make it go away.

   •    This is so far past overdue - those with Long COVID, the experts, and the health committee did great work, the
        recommendations are solid and much needed. Minister Butler needs to stop sitting on them and take urgent
        action to implement them all. Anything less is negligence.

References


   1.   https://www.aph.qov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/House/Health Aged Care and Sport/Lonqandrep
        eatedCOVID/Report/Chapter 1 - Introduction

   2.        https ://www.chanqe.orq/p/urqent-implementation-of-all-recommendations-of-the-australian-lonq-covid-inquiry


   3.   https://www.aph.qov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/House/Health Aged Care and Sport/Lonqandrep
        eatedCOVID/Report/Chapter 7 - Recommendations

   4.        https://docs.qooqle.eom/document/d/1CpYoeehi-d4Ux1X7MYii7IDeDOz3PF9Qr2sL4wkdxaw/edit
