                                                                            15/12/2023


                  COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION




My name is                      and I am a Queensland resident. I am very concerned about
the future pandemic responses of Australia as it will impact the future of my children.

I recognize that the goal of the inquiry is to improve pandemic preparedness, and to achieve
the best outcome it is important to investigate and analyse the Covid-19 response of
Australia, to see where it should have been handled differently.

   1.   My understanding is that Australia was following the WHO guidelines in the Covid-19
        pandemic. The WHO is not located in Australia nor in the other 170+ countries who
        blindly followed its recommendations. Therefore, it only can advise a one size fits all
        solution, which has been changed over the course of the pandemic a few times.
        Besides, WHO is not an independent expert body, and hasn't been elected by the
        people of the planet. If the WHO would be a body of the best doctors from all over
        the world, where those doctors were appointed to represent their country by the
        people of the country, then I can understand that the Australian Government
        considers the WHO's recommendations.
        However, the WHO is not a trustable organization.
        The evidence can be found in the speech of                    nat he gave in the
        European Parliament: https://rumble.com/v3v3wlx-dr.-david-martin-exposing-genocidal-
        crimes-and-terrorism-by-the-who-big-pha.html

        I want to see a panel of independent doctors from each state, who has the mandate
        to decide whether a pandemic should be called or not and what measures to be
        taken.

   2.   Communication Strategies: during the Covid-19 pandemic, the information flooded
        from the media wasn't objective and in fact, the fear it has created was palatable.
        Why was this communist type of fear propaganda applied?

        There should be some guidelines drawn up to ensure that the information supplied is
        factual, and people are informed about possible prevention methods as well, and
        allow people to be proactive instead of loosing their head over the situation.

   3.   VERY IMPORTANT: during an actual pandemic there should be an open
        communication line where doctors can voice their concerns and real scientific
        debates can occur about the measures taken. Please look into why this was not
        facilitated during the Covid-19 pandemic, and why were those doctors who did not
        agree with the top down protocols, or who had a potentially better way to treat the
        disease were crushed and vilified?
        For the future I would like to see a platform created where every Doctor in Australia
        can contribute with their suggestions and possible treatments and protocols, which
in turn can be quickly peer-reviewed, and if validated, the Pandemic Panel can
include it in it's recommendations, or can take out something from it's
recommendations quickly based on this current local evidence emerging from this
platform.



Thank you for your attention.
