The terms of this inquiry fall far short of enabling the investigation required to unravel the
overwhelming attack on personal liberty and integrity suffered by so many during the Covid
era. By omitting any compulsion related to the actions of the States and their bureaucrats
the Albanese government is placing the interests of these heads of government above the
interests of the public. Predominantly it was the State governments, with the Victorian
government most prominent, implementing highly restrictive measures whilst generating a
climate of fear around the effects of Covid.

Examples of such policies and their application included:

    •       Forcing vaccine mandates under threat of job losses.
    •       Lack of support for the doctor patient relationship limiting treatment options.
    •   Border closures with scant concern for the widespread damaging health and
        economic impacts.
    •   Community lockdowns - school closures and severely restricted recreation and
        economic activity

An area where the Commonwealth was particularly remiss was in purchasing Vaccine
supplies far above any logical need. There was also largely unchecked financial assistance
provided by the Commonwealth to fund overzealous lockdowns by the States and in general
tacit approval of their actions. The role of AHPRA and ATAGI in the oversight of Covid policy and
restrictions placed on doctors are matters of major concern, requiring the investigative powers only
available to a Royal Commission.

Increasingly the effectiveness of the "vaccine;" its limited testing, and the incidence of
"vaccine" injuries are also major issues that are not being addressed by government. They
require a depth of scrutiny that cannot be met by an inquiry that is seriously deficient in its
terms of reference and judicial powers.

It is derelict of this government to institute an inquiry where a Royal Commission is the
appropriate forum to investigate all aspects of governments' response to Covid. Not only is it
unjust, but in limiting the lessons to be learned from the Covid "pandemic" the public are
placed in grave danger of a repetition of this very dark period of governance by our State
and Federal Governments.
