                        Commonwealth GovemmentCOVID-19 Response Inquiry.

I am the Reverend Frederic John Richtei^^nest in the Liberal Catholic Church who has been actively
busy in the Christian community in^^^^^| for almost 51 years, moving in ecumenical circles and
the^^^^^|Community Church who do an annual event "The Stable" celebrating Jesus' birth in
Bethlehem in December. I have also been involved in climate Justice actions and am currently assisting
the ^^^^^■Community Alliance, a subsidiary of the Queensland Community Alliance, working at
grass roots level to identify community needs and possible solutions to them, to assist governments
to act effectively to address community needs.

I became interested in COVID-19 early, when I heard the American Doctor,talking on
YouTube about the need for people to build up their immune system, because if it was strong, you do
not need to have any vaccination. He also talked about Ivermectin being effective to treat COVID-19
at all stages of the disease, as it limits transmission, treats at all stages of the disease, and reduces the
risk of death. He successfully stopped the first wave of COVID-19 with Ivermectin and the help of other
Doctors in^^^^^ I had heard of serious adverse reactions to the injections in close family and
friends, so tried to keep abreast of developments via the Internet.

My first request is, "how impartial are the Members of the Panel? Do they or close family receive
any salary or funding from any pharmaceutical company, any business that deal with
pharmaceutical companies or are they owners of shares in companies likely to benefit from any
decisions made by this panel?"

Why do I ask this? Because I have heard that all Health Officials running the anti-COVID-19 Pandemic
response were largely funded by Big Pharma, 96% of salaries was mentioned. Given the results of the
independent Investigation of this matter carried out by the Australian Medical Professionals Society
(AMPS) and recently released by them in a book called "TOO MANY DEAD, An Inquiry into Australia's
Excess Mortality", which contains 18 published peer reviewed papers by respected, well qualified
authors, the actions of State and Commonwealth Governments, State and Federal Health Officials,
APHRA, TGA, etc. leave much to be desired.

I heard with dismay the ABC announcing this Inquiry into the way the COVID-19 Pandemic has been
handled in Australia. This Inquiry has not been set up to thoroughly investigate what I see as a criminal
mismanagement of this matter by people appointed by governments to protect the Australian public.

The situation as I understand it from my limited knowledge (I admit I have not kept records of all my
sources) is:

    •   Governments have passed laws that allow inadequately tested gene-therapies to be accepted
        as vaccinations in emergent conditions, and then mandated it without any testing of its safety
        by Australian Medical Testing Authorities. They relied on the manufacturer's word. They did
        not even fully check the evidence of safety provided by the manufacturers. The gene-therapy
        has now proven to be incapable of achieving herd immunity or preventing the catching or
        transmission of COVID-19, as previous vaccinations were meant to. It has also been revealed
        that they are genetically modified organisms, GMO's, and they were used without the testing
        and approval required for GMO's. I believe that this matter has recently been taken to Court.
        Also the gene-therapies were not tested on women or children and were later approved for
        use on women and children without further testing!
    •          They did not provide proper risk assessments or allow people to give informed consent.
    •   They allowed the mandates to proceed while NOT requiring that all medical staff MAINTAIN
         PROPER RECORDS OF ALL ADVERSE REACTIONS THAT HAPPEN MORE THAN AN HOUR AFTER
        THE INJECTIONS. Without proper records, how can they provide scientific evidence about
        the safety of the injections. They minimized Doctors ability to report vaccine caused deaths.
    •   They allowed non-medical administrative staff to tell doctors and nurses what they should do,
        and threatened de-registration if they did not comply. As a result many have been de­
        registered and lost their livelihoods. I understand that many are being offered their
        registration and jobs back without recompense for the personal and financial hardship they
        have suffered!
    •   They took away the rights of all Australians to sue the companies for the results of adverse
        reactions and put the burden for recompense on the government, in other words on the
        Australian public, the taxpayers!
    •   They have ignored the benefit of natural immunity, which some testing has suggested is better
        than two shots of any GMO shots and provides longer lasting protection.
    •   Overseas statistics suggest that the more GMO injections you have, the more likely you are to
        have problems because your immune system will stop responding to Covid like diseases. There
        are also reports that the more vaccinations you have the more your immune system is
        suppressed, and the more people are likely to have auto-immune diseases.
    •   They have ignored the ability of healthy immune systems to resist diseases like Covid and have
        not suggested that all people make sure their immune systems are strong, having all necessary
        vitamins and minerals to allow their immune system to work effectively. Why are old people
        most likely to die? Because they are immune suppressed and have co-morbidities.
    •   They used their power to label Ivermectin, a Nobel Prize winning drug, that had been proven
        very safe drug for human use over 20 years, dangerous. When I checked Wikipedia, it said
        that Ivermectin, if taken in horse sized doses (therefore a massive overdose), could give you
        diarrhea! While it was removed from shelves in Australia, and doctors were banned from
        prescribing it, it was used safely and effectively in many places, including by Dr^^^^^^n
                 America. Why was this done? Because, if it was a safe treatment, the experimental
        gene-therapies would not have been approved for use, and many people would not have
        been able to make a lot of money, or was it to reduce the world's population, or both.
        Ivermectin was very cheap and readily available. It had been tested in Petrie dishes and killed
        all the COVID-19 cells in them. Also, there was no money to be made by big pharma from
        properly testing Ivermectin as an approved treatment so, for a long time, nothing happened
        about properly testing it. However, many people trialed it in overseas countries and the results
        generally were positive. A recent test by a company seeking to make a time release version
        was promising, as a prophylactic, a treatment at all stages if you catch any form of COVID-19,
        and it would minimize transmission, hospitalization, and death. YET IT STILL HAS NOT BEEN
        APPROVED FOR USE IN AUSTRALIA.

There have been many adverse reactions that Government and senior health officials appear to be
ignoring:

    •   The fact that since the start of mass vaccinations of Australians in April 2021 to
        December 2022, there were 31,000 excess deaths from all causes, yet only 14,014 were
        determined to be from or with COVID-19! That leaves 16,986 unexplained excess
        deaths in that period and the number of unexplained deaths is still growing. This book
        has linked those unexplained excess deaths to the experimental gene-therapies that the
        Government is still encouraging our public to obtain as so-called ‘vaccines’, and the
        government and Public Health Officials are still not investigating the reason/s for these
        deaths. Information provided by the AMPS’ book TOO MANY DEAD.
   •     Note: The excess deaths started in Queensland immediately after GMO injections
         started, but no significant cases of COVID-19 started until months later!
   •     There have been many deaths within days of injections among apparently fit sports people,
         military personnel, airline staff, including pilots, and others.
   •     There has been a significant rise in the rates of miscarriages, reduced rates of pregnancy and
         virility, heart problems, some forms of cancer; and serious sickness and deaths in injected
         children. There have been many other side effects caused by the injections that we do not
         have records of in Australia.

SOME ACTIONS THAT CAN BE TAKEN TO IMPROVE OUR RESPONSE TO PANDEMICS:

    1.       Approve the "Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Amendment (Vaccine
             Indemnity) Bill 2023", for the reasons set out in the attached copy of the submission by
             AMPS. This Bill will prevent anyone in government from granting indemnities to
             pharmaceutical companies, so the pharmaceutical companies will be responsible for all
             adverse effects from any products they sell.
   2.        As recommended in "Should Australia reconsider its Involvement with the WHO?" by
             AMPS, WHO being the World Health Organization, the Government should reject the
             proposal that WHO control Australia's response to all future pandemics. I agree that
             Australian Governments should retain full control of the way we manage future
             pandemics. The WHO seems more aligned with people who want to reduce the world's
             population by nefarious means. I am horrified by the severe impact all health measures
             applied by governments and businesses have caused to Australians and throughout the
             world, apparently based on the WHO's recommendations.
   3.        Read   the    attached      letter     by   the   Australian   Medical   Professionals'   Society:
             "Communications          Legislation        Amendment      (Combating     Misinformation      and
             Disinformation) Bill 2023". The letter by AMPS about Mis- and Dis-information contains
             significant information about the misuse of power to conceal information vital to the
             Nation's health in relation to management of Covid-19.
   4.        Our governments should allow medical staff to practice medicine without the interference
             of uninformed administrative staff. Require doctors etc. to treat the cause of sickness not
             the symptoms, that is encourage people to get healthy and have a strong immune system,
             get some sun and some exercise, rather than just prescribing pills/medication,
             experimental drugs. That would have saved thousands, maybe millions of lives worldwide.
             Sweden who did not insist on 'vaccinations' etc. had much better outcomes than all 'highly
             injected' Western Nations!
   5.        Require medical authorities to ensure proper records of adverse reactions to any
             medication by legislation which requires the establishment of an efficient system to lodge
             them and monitor the results. The system should include a reporting system to require
             action should an adverse patten develop, so action can be taken to remedy the situation.
   6.            Stop the use of the experimental vaccines immediately. Arrange restitution for victims.
   7.            Investigate the background of this scandal and punish the perpetrators fortheir misdeeds.
             If possible, require the perpetrators to make amends for the harm they have caused.
   8.        Put safeguards in place so that any experimental products must be properly assessed
             before approval, based on sufficient data from the testing authority. The testing authority
             must be independent and impartial, not connected to the manufacturer.

Frederic.
