Rachel Byrne
15 December 2023

Submission -Covid 19 Response.

Introduction:
My name is Rachel Byrne and during the first part of the pandemic I worked as a mental
health support worker in the community. When vaccine mandates came into effect, I was
terminated from my position on the 11th of November 2021 for refusal to take the vaccine. I
had 7 years experience and am degree qualified. I was passionate about the people I worked
alongside (Societies most vulnerable people).



                                                                    His career ended as well.
Alongside our devastating job losses^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Hwas approximately 12
weeks from finishing his^^^^Happrenticeship. His work mandated the vax as well and
they told him that he would be fired, and his apprenticeship stripped from him. We
contacted NSW Education and training. We were advised that they could not take his
apprenticeship, but they may not let him finish. I was told by a compassionate woman in
tha^ffice that she was scrambling to help many young apprentices in the same position.
^^^Hwas forced to get the vaccine and took one shot at the^^^^^^^/accination event
             He somehow managed to finish the apprenticeship as the dates worked out and
wa^uosequently terminated as he refused to take the second vaccination. The pressure
from this, the media and the government were too much and few months later he got to
the point where he was very seriously contemplating^^^^^^^^^B at^fyears of age. I
thank God that he didn't do it and as I write about this time, I have tears in my eyes because
we came so close to losing him. All the while our government tried to starve my family into
submission, Federal and State. They encouraged business to mandate the vaccine and
incited hatred amongst the community. The Government also introduced mandates
themselves. We survived on our savings and suffered significant financial loss, but the
emotional damage will stay with us the rest of our lives. We live in
and we were not allowed in shops, have a haircut and the GP refused to see us. I did not get
to say goodbye to my dying mother-in-law in person. I had to face time her. At one point
we could not leave our suburb without an application on a government website because we
were unvaccinated. It felt like the 1940s and 50s. This was after most other people could
move freely. Daily, we had Federal and State politicians spouting propaganda and fear on
the television and it whipped the public into a frenzy. I had a person online tell me that
protestors should have                                           I have no other conclusion
than the Government tried to starve dissenters into submission. It is a very dark time in
Australian history (Australia has done some pretty bad things in the past as well) and I will
never forgive the Australian Government (both sides) for what they did to the Australian
people.




Impact on the community
More broadly I worked for most of the pandemic as an essential worker.
I worked for^Hinitially then I worked                     a mental health support worker.
I saw the shocking devastation on the community as I was able to drive around                   I
saw business closed, business that had obviously gone bust and a totally deserted city.
ThepeoplewhoIworkedwithhad
                                                                                    Most of our
consumers lived alone and as most Services tried to limit face to face they became
increasingly isolated. Many services started to offer phone call only in place of physical
visits. Only doing face to face for specific and limited reasons. I always volunteered to go
and see people in person in the team meetings. To Make sure they were well, they were
keeping clean, they had food.

Some consumers with social anxiety and agoraphobia really became worse. These people
regressed terribly during the lock down. Not having to face their fears or receive treatment,
they retreated into their illness, staying at home and never seeing anyone for vast periods of
time.
Some mentally ill people need to be seen to maintain their health and also for a visual
check. It is very hard to note how a person is doing over the phone. You must see them.

I note that two people that I know in the community who had serious mental health and
physical issues died during the lock downs. One in his 40s and a women in her 50s.
Both of those people lived alone and I believe that their deaths were hastened by these lock
downs. They were not being seen regularly, they had health problems and were probably
not seeing their doctor. Who knows if they were eating properly, they certainly didn't get
the healthcare they needed. The police found them in their homes. I am very angry at what
the Government did. They killed people. We will never know how many died unnecessarily
to suicide, untreated medical problems, neglect. It would be a staggering number.

I also note that everyday the NSW Government was reporting every so called covid death on
the television. I remember Gladys and the Health Minister saying two people from Palliative
care had died of covid UNVACCINATED. If that is not deceptive, I don't what is. They did not
die from Covid, They were already dying. Why would they possibly get vaccinated if they
were already in palliative care? It was incredible, incredible propaganda. This type of lying
happened over and over.

                    and I got Covid.                  have only covid once and got over it
in 3 days, unvaccinated.^^^^Bgot a runny nose. All of this trauma pushed onto healthy
People who should havebeenallowed to make their own choice.

I have not returned to my industry despite the shortages. I am traumatised and although I
want to go back,unbelievably some companies are still requiring vaccination (shots people
had in 2021 that don't work and wear off). It doesn't really make sense; we are now in 2023.
I am making this submission as I want future generations to know what Australian
politicians, the media and bureaucrats did to Australian citizens.
