                     Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry



My name is                I live                    I strongly believe in freedom of choice
over what to do with your health.



In the past when any drug was trialled, with death or other negative results with a few
people who trialled the drug, health authorities stopped use of it for worldwide populations.
I've heard reports that animal experiments of mRNA vaccine failed as they all died.



With immense power of pharmaceutical companies over governments, governments and
health authorities hid deaths of animals and patients who received the injection first and
went ahead to inject this experimental mRNA vaccine to public at large.



Government officials said it's safe and effective about this experimental drug when there is
no proof of it (Pfizer executive admitted it some months ago in a parliamentary hearing in
Europe). They pressured companies to make it mandatory for employees to have the shots
to keep the job. They pressured universities and schools, too.



I heard from parents of a student at^^^^^^^^^^^^^Hthat there are 13 deaths of
teenagers since the rollout of mRNA injection to students. I have a few friends who have
died or are suffering from debilitating effects of the mRNA shots.



There are statistics of excess deaths since the rollout of mRNA vaccine which can't be
explained otherwise than being caused by this experimental drugs forced on the world
population.



As clearly stated inbook "The Real Anthony Fauci" and the new book
just released, "The Wuhan Cover-Up", mRNA injection was engineered as a bioweapon.



It is plainly a crime against humanity to force with government powers to take this
bioweapon which resulted in millions of deaths and incapacitations.



Very recently, Italian Health Minister Roberto Speranza has become the first world leader to
face multiple murder charges over the millions of deaths caused by mRNA vaccines.
Other political leaders and health officials who put pressures on the public to take mRNA
vaccines should all be held to account.

Therefore it's important to have COVID-19 Response Inquiry to have any officials who forced
mRNA vaccines held to account. They should be replaced by new personnel who don't have
conflict of interest with pharmaceutical industries.
