                    Commonwealth Government of Australia, COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                             Submission December 2023



Profile: Author Alarming Sleep Secrets book, Submission to the Victorian Government Royal Commission into Mental
Health, Workplace Health and Safety submission, IT project manager, analyst and researcher, banking systems, audit,
KPMG, NAB, Kelloggs, B.Ec (Syd.)



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The number of people killed by the COVID-19 countermeasure/bioweapon commonly referred to as "the COVID-19
vaccine" globally, is variously estimated by international experts now as somewhere between 13 and 17 million
people, to date. (13 million: Steve Kirsch at his presentation to the UK parliamentary meeting, 17 million: Sasha
Latypova's personal estimate on Linkedln December 12, 2023). It is early days, as autoimmune strength is
deteriorating: things will get worse.

Experts such a
                                                                 etc. combined with legal cases already in play
internationally, it is now evident that not only was there massive manipulation into reducing population numbers
globally, but for decades the legal structure has been built to support immunity for the globalists that worked with
the military to perpetrate what should be regarded as a global crime.

This is quite a pill to swallow! Only a conspiracy theorist would think this way: no wonder they silenced us early, and
continue to.

The facts are finally emerging. The website www.HowBadisMyBatch.com gives fine detail on matters surrounding the
deaths and harms, the lack of consistency of the "vaccine" batches, etc. The statistics collected by New Zealand
whistleblower               reveal shocking harms being done, with one vaccinator apparently showing 400 deaths
attributed to her program alone. Legal cases such as Brook Jackson vs US Department of Defense are beginning to
uncover the extent of the involvement by the US Department of Defense, and how, for decades, laws have been
passed in the US so that the rollout of countermeasures/^| could be done with impunity.

Meanwhile in Australia, we have legal cases against the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator (OTGR) relating to
the manipulation/contamination of Australian's genetics, and a class action over harms caused by vaccinations.
mRNA vaccines continue to be administered to humans including children, and mRNA products are being developed
for veterinarian and other uses, without any recognition of the worldwide catastrophe.

Unbelievably, even as I visit Australian Government Health websites today (14.12.2023) the messaging is STILL about
getting tested for COVID-19, get vaccinated, more information about COVID-19, etc. No, you really could not make
this up!

NUMBERS KILLED BY THE "COUNTERMEASURES/BIOWEAPONS KNOWN AS "VACCINES"

Estimates of deaths caused by the COVID-19 "vaccine" fall somewhere in the range of 0.1 percent, per dose, of the
population; and 0.2 percent of the general population figure. (That is one death per thousand doses.) These
percentage estimates come from                                                                                 based on
                                                    I all-of-New-Zealand paid-for-immunization data.

That equates to 54,000 Australian deaths, to December 2023, of a population of roughly 27 million people. (It is
unfortunate to have to calculate Australia's deaths in such a way, but in this country, we are still being told these
vaccines are safe, and to "give them to your children"!)




               Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                     Page 1 of 8
WHY ARE THEY CALLING THEM "COUNTERMEASURES" AND "BIOWEAPONS" - NOT VACCINES?

Investigative work being performed                                            Childrens' Health Defense legal team, the
unsuccessful US legal case Brook Jackson vs Pfizer, etc., has revealed an alarming story.

It would appear that the companies, such as Pfizer, which we think are the "manufacturers of the COVID-19
vaccines", were contracted with the US Department of Defense to produce and distribute "countermeasures". These
"countermeasures" were not subject to the usual clinical trial processes. Furthermore, the manufacturing processes
were faulty, contaminated and varied: not even following good manufacturing practice®
HMHj^HHHare both publishing on Substack: https://sashalatvpova.substack.com and
https://bailiwicknews.substack.com respectively. Please fully investigate the work of these women, it is too much to
include in a "3-page limited submission" here.

THE BIG QUESTIONS

A.   Under what circumstances, and exactly how, did the Commonwealth of Australia enter into arrangements, of any
     kind, with international governments and companies, that caused the deaths, to date, of 54,000 Australians?
B.   Apart from granting total immunity to these organizations/governments, without our permission, what
     arrangements were/are in place, contractual or otherwise, to enable the                   of Australians, at
     December 2023?

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(Some of which are borrowed/amended from^^^^^^^ recommendations made this week at his presentation to
the United Kingdom parliament in London, December 2023.)

1.          recommended to arrest the NZ Minister for Health, and senior staff members for criminal negligence. In
     Australia that would include the Australian Health Minister of the time, Greg Hunt (and his replacements), the
     Chief Health Officer for Australia, and the Chief Medical Officers of each state in Australia. The management of
     COVID-19 became very state-focused in Australia, it was not only a national strategy. Criminal charges should be
     laid against all these "health officials".


2.          Stop recommending the shots immediately, or face criminal prosecution. All shots. All medical professionals, All
     pharmacists. All nurses. All citizens. All over Australia.
3.        I



4.          No-one in the medical community is demanding the release of record level data. Why is this? A full inquiry into
     why no-one in the medical field is demanding this information should be conducted.
5.          A major media strategy to be devised immediately, covering all television, radio, news programs etc. to broadcast
     the completion of any COVID-19 "vaccination" programs, with full disclosure of the harms that have been caused
     in other countries that have been released.
6.          No further COVID-19 mRNA shots, or any other COVID-19 shots to be given.
7.          A full and thorough investigation should immediately commence into the development and use of mRNA in
     animals in Australia - already under development.
8.          No mRNA shots or substances should be given to animals, or included in ANY food items eaten by Australians or
     exported to other countries, including imported goods and foods. https://MudgeeEye.substack.com/p/all-in-the-
     name-or-biosecurity-full
9.          No further public spending on any mRNA or COVID-19 "vaccines" for humans or animals.




               Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                   Page 2 of 8
10.         The development of mRNA vaccines and other products in Australia for all purposes, including for Foot and
      Mouth Disease and Lumpy Skin Disease (announced by Perrottet, Saunders and Toole and expected to be
      completed by August 2023) should be immediately stopped with legal action taken.
11.         A full investigation should be commenced into the international "leaders" who have been instrumental in the
      rollout of mRNA, the international pandemic preparedness conferences, our WHO and IHR delegates, etc
12.         EXIT THE WHO. Immediately and completely. The WHO is a criminal organization. Immediately terminate all
      agreements that have been made with them, and sever all ties. Investigate all Australian delegates and
      representatives to the WHO. What have they been doing exactly? Information about their "soft coup" in|
         H Substack.
13.         EXIT ONE HEALTH. Immediately and completely. The aims, structure and workings of One Health should be fully
      investigated. One Health has now been structured above the WHO - with a number of arms underneath the
      banner - including but not limited to FOAH, united nations bodies, etc. This is NOT our future. We have just seen
                       ^st agenda is prepared to take this nation and its people. We will not be complying.


14.         EXIT THE UNITED NATIONS. One Health has demonstrated that they are all under the same umbrella, and that
      they will therefore work in unison.
15.         EXIT THE WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM. A nefarious global organization that isn't doing Australia any favours.
16.         Investigate all our systems and structures under the banner of "biosecurity" - because it was the WHO that
      called this nightmare into existence because of an "international biosecurity risk of international concern" -
      which, through One Health, could easily become an "international biosecurity risk of international concern
      relating to animals" or plants, or climate change for that matter - under the structure of the dubious "One
      Health". Furthermore, we had a biosecurity incident with varroa mite in bees recently, which is another matter
      that needs further investigation. This was a biosecurity risk, and the shocking strategies compromised pollination
      and food security within Australia. This is beyond the scope of this report - but we are watching!
17.         There should be a full investigation and full public disclosure of the financial incentivization programs for the
      CO\/ID-19 vaccine rollout, the PCR testing rollouts, the laboratory testing results, the exact PCR cycles used by
    which laboratories, the government officials and health centres involved in the COVID-19 strategies.
18.       Take immediate criminal action against the many perpetrators of this crime.

Persons and Organizations of Interest

There has been a pattern that "leaders" in Australia with the COVID-19 rollouts etc, have resigned, been promoted,
etc. over the last couple of years                                                                                 and
Janette Young, previous CHO for Queensland is now the Governor of Queensland. Other interestin^elgctmnyjiade
during this period include Scott Morrison's COVID-19 Steering Committee, and its development.^


forget the hundreds that died in quarantine in Victoria under Dan Andrews. The hideous rubber bullets shot at
protesters in Victoria, the human rights violations. The list goes on. Not only does the US have a revolving door with
FDA and powerful US companies, but Australia has some interesting career moves itself.

Jane Halton OA. Appointed to Scott Morrison's National COVID-19 Commission 2020. Attended Event 201 (The John
Hopkins Centre for Health Security in partnership with the World Economic Forum and the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation - a high level pandemic exercise held October 18, 2019 in New York, NY). Chair of the Coalition for
Epidemic Preparedness (CEPI) which is now involved with mRNA for animals. CEPI (from their website 14.12.2023)
has pledged $300 million to their “100 Days Mission - a campaign delving into how we can compress the vaccine
development timeline to 100 days...". ■
|||||g||||||||8                              July 9, 2022 Halton appointed to lead the Australian review into vaccine
contracts. Oversaw the national review into hotel quarantine arrangements. Other positions: chair of the board of
the WHO, President of the World Health Assembly, Chair of OECD Health Committee, senior board role at Crown
Casinos ($300,000/year). Chair Vault Systems (2017/2018...) high security cloud provider to the Australian
government and its partners, Microsoft being given "protected" status in 2018.1




               Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                     Page 3 of 8
Andrew "Twiggy" Forrest OA. Mining magnate, former CEO of Fortescue Metals Group, cattle stations. Minderoo
Foundation and Walk Free Foundation. World Economic Forum, Friends of the Ocean. Attended COP28 December
2023. The Australian Government paid $ 212 million for COVID tests and PRE, which were never used, and sent to the
national medical stockpile.

Australia's Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). 97 percent funded by the industry it is meant to be reviewing.



Criminally Negligent

The Australian response to the "COVID-19 Pandemic" has been criminally negligent, resulting in tens of thousands of
deaths and many more harmed, with apparently NO recognition of this, nearly 4 years later. Who will be held
accountable for tens of thousands of deaths, and many more harmed?

The "pandemic" was preplanned, as many experts have now shown, and the response has seen the greatest loss of
life, and harms done to the people - possibly in history.

It is variously estimated that 10 - 20 million people have died following the global rollout of "military
countermeasures", with many more harmed and injured.

        We STILL have no idea what is in these countermeasures. We have still not been told. Does anyone actually
        know? If so, where are they? This investigative activity has been left t individuals in the community,
        retired pharma executives and professionals, etc. What is going on here? You could NOT make this up!




EVIDENCE:

My highest recommendation for research to understand the military operation and development of
countermeasures is to review in detail the work of botl                                         They are now gaining a
lot of attention globally, with their research into (a.) the deception of "vaccine", and (b.) the laws that have been
passed in the US to allow the production and distribution of countermeasures/bioweapons;
                 | I did not understand anything, until I got my head around these matters.

How Australia's pandemic strategy locks in with this, and the work of the World Health Organization is now up to this
investigation.

We will watch closely as you reveal to us exactly how and why so many Australians are now dead and harmed by
your incompetence, or planning. All in the name of health!

Reliable sources of true information: Start Here. (You can tell it's true if they don't want you to see it..)

1.   www.Howbadismybatch.com Harms of vaccines specific to the batch numbers,HMHHHHHMH|MMHB
                   I and others.
2.   Previous clinical trial and pharmaceutical processes and manufacturing compliance expert.
     It is not a "vaccine" but a military countermeasure, rolled out under "Emergency Use Authorization" regulations -
     therefore normal pharmaceutical regulations, such as "clinical trial" do not apply, including "informed consent",
     mRNA in livestock, etc. https://sashalatypova.substack.com. Many posts on her Substack, Important.




                 Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                   Page 4 of 8
6.    Exit the WHO https://jamesroguski.substack.com
7.



9.


10.
11.


12. Childrens Health Defense US. www.childrenshealthdefense.org
13


14.
15.
16.


17. Estate of George Watts, Jr. vs Lloyd J. Austin III in his official Capacity as Secretary of the UNITED STATES
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE. Filed 05/31/23 Case l:23-cv-01544

THE DEFINITION OF A PANDEMIC. The World Health Organization played a pivotal role in the beat-up of a "Global
Pandemic". A health concern of international interest... that's all it means by their definition - but instead we were all
going to die - fall flat on our faces while walking in the street - I remember the videos well. I have still not seen one
of these cases, in 4 years.

COVID-19 was apparently a "biosecurity threat of international concern - humans" - which triggered all this. Watch
out for the next "Biosecurity threat of international concern - animals". Australia is preparing for this with mRNA
being developed for use with all cloven-hooved animals in Australia if there is an outbreak of Foot and Mouth
Disease (FMD) or Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD). https://MudqeeEye.substack.eom/p/all-in-the-name-of-biosecurity-full

         When the WHO declared a "Pandemic" from the information I can find, Australia had had ONE death that
         was attributed to COVID-19. A full investigation into this matter alone is called for.

Was there ever a pandemic? Or was it the rollout of a carefully planned operation, including a heavy-handed
response to the propagandized flood of overly-cycled positive PCR test results?

"STATE OF EMERGENCY" Under this declaration/decree (based on NO satisfactory evidence being supplied to date)
all normal medical protocols were overridden by organizations such as the unelected and now known-to-be-criminal
WHO. We remember media news stories, in prime time, where leading government officials, backed by military
personnel, made declarations about the pandemic. I didn't really understand why the military were involved, but
now it is becoming clearer.

"Emergency Use Authorization", lockdowns, masks, etc. were all "mandated" based on a "state of emergency", which
was a fiction? Without the "State of Emergency" government cannot do lockdowns, mandate
countermeasures/"vaccines", track and trace your movements, separate families, ban certain travel, no visits to
nursing homes - we do remember all these civil rights violations. A military operation rolled out by the medical
industrial complex?

I notice that in the US the "State of Emergency" has been extended to December 2024, and I think similar time
frames exist in Australia too. The fraud continues. Why do they still need that cover for? Did the military ask for this?
No doubt we will find out.

DEATH AND INJURY CAUSED BY THE COUNTERMEASURES/BIOWEAPONS/"VACCINES" We have a genuine
emergency now: deaths and injuries from the countermeasures/bioweapons, incorrectly named "vaccines".

"EMERGENCY USE AUTHORIZATION" (EUA) This declaration was pivotal in allowing the "pandemic" and media
frenzy to continue. EUA can be attributed, provided there were no acceptable alternatives, which there were.



              Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                       Page 5 of 8
Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin suddenly became not applicable, not available, vilified as "horse dewormer", etc.
This action would have caused some deaths, and harms, as doctors were prohibited from recommending them.

THE PCR TEST There would have been no pandemic panic without the flawed PCR test, and the excessive cycles that
were used to get false positive results.


                                                                                                    Australia the cycles
used for testing, with the PCR test, were variously reported at numbers greater than 40, which negates all those
tests.

QUARANTINE FACILITIES, ESPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED. Still a mystery. We still need answers. We paid for them, what
are they for?




VACCINE INDEMNITIES. A full investigation is required.

MEDIA MESSAGING AND FACT CHECKING. Full investigation is required, including funding, "fact checking", etc. These
players are culpable.

THE WHO: an unelected globalist organization with various large donors including the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation and GAVI, both with vested interests. The organization is compromised, and probably criminal - though
which international court is capable of proving that? We certainly should not be following ANY of their directives.


MASK WEARING

Masks were mandated without any evidence to support them, https://rumble.com/v407ose-graham-and-iohn-
interview-kristen-meghan-and-tammy-clark-about-masks/ Published peer reviewed studies now support this
position. And many of these masks were produced on the insanitary floors of foreign manufacturers.

I worry about the psychological effects on children and babies, in particular, as most bonding and early development
depends on children watching facial expressions and communications from their mothers, parents and people
around them. No, they will not have "mental health problems" (a new profitable sideline for the pharma companies),
they will have very normal adverse reactions to a hideous and culpable directive given to Australians that has been
harmful both physically and emotionally.

"SAFE AND EFFECTIVE" We were sold this by everyone'. But they were NEITHER safe nor effective.

When Pfizer's attempted 75-year suppression order failed, they were forced to release the list of 1291 side effects of
the "vaccine" in April 2021 but the Australian health bodies, and the media, culpably neglected to tell the Australian
people about it. https://pa.childrenshealthdefense.org/news/pfizer-covid-vaccine-has-1291-side-effects-reveals-
official-documents/

Meanwhile product inserts remained clear of any information. And the "safe and effective" propaganda continued.
The rollout still continues, including to children. This is a criminal act.

THE MEDIA PROPAGANDA Globally the media were in lockstep with exactly the same messaging. Fear mongering,
false promises of 'safe and effective', daily reports of who was dying of COVID-19 - even if those figures were totally
misleading and incorrect. It is old news that the media is compromised by the funding it receives through advertising,
but this level of human rights abuse was culpable. Propaganda is an old war game, and only the small percentage of
Australians, the ones called 'conspiracy theorists', had the sense to abandon all main stream media and find life­
saving solutions in "alternate media" which has now boomed. World leaders are now publishing on Substack,
Rumble, their own private servers, etc.




                Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                  Page 6 of 8
MIDAZOLAM, REMDESIVIR, VENTILATORS used extensively in some countries, often with financial incentives
attached. E.g. Some US hospitals were paid over $30,000 USD per person, as an incentive to put someone on a
ventilator. There is now documented evidence that there were certain wards in some hospitals that were criminally
negligent. A full enquiry should be occurring in Australia for all the events that occurred using any of these
strategies/drugs in COVID-19 situations.

PATENTS Refer to the                            tracking relevant patents registered decades before COVID-19 2020.
www. David IVI a rti n. worl d.

In fact, in the middle of February 2020 I posted up a coronavirus patent that was falling due/ending on 28.2.2020.
Nothing to see there. My Facebook post was immediately fact checked! A direct link to the US Patents Office is
apparently not a fact. Thank you for waking me up early "factcheckers".

 IFFICE OF THE GENE TECHNOLOGY REGULATOR (OGTR) We have mRNA "vaccines" being injected into the
Australian population, including children, and the OTGR did not take any notice. Thankfully^^^^^^^^J and his
team is taking legal action against yet another government body in Australia that is not doing their job.

DEATH FIGURES and THE MANIPULATION OF GOVERNMENT STATISTICS Is this deceptive and poor record keeping or
"government" manipulation ?

During COVID-19 I used to look up Births Deaths and Marriages in Australia, and could see no increase in deaths
while the scaremongering was happening on the television and radio. Strangely, these figures became difficult to look
up after a time. Why? Similarly, I rang up the Therapeutic Goods Administration to register an adverse event, and the
TGA told me that their system was down. More culpability!

Now we have internationally renowned financiers, statisticians and insurance experts publishing books like^^^g|^
"Cause Unknown: The Epidemic of Sudden Deaths in 2021 and 2022" which has been an international success.

THE BIGGER PICTURE - THERE IS MORE COMING ...
In spite of all the evidence, gathered over 4 years (and decades in the case of military acts, PREP Act, etc - see
                  ■ work, and others mentioned above) it does appear that the people now outside of the medical
industry are STILL making more inroads into this time in history than the "professionals" running the show.


Infrastructure, communications, alternate energy infrastructures, finance, massive quantitative easing, military,
climate change, digital ID, robotics, etc. Oh, and let's include financing wars. A full investigation is to be made of how
the COVID era became an "infrastructure and spending bonanza" - and for many multinational companies - often
NOT Australian owned. Both a national disgrace, and possibly a criminal disgrace. Did we relax foreign ownership
rules during this time? Why have we got Korean companies (as an example) building wind farms locally?


MIGRATION TO ALTERNATIVE PLATFORMS Of course, propaganda is an old game during war and manipulation. Most
Australians fell for it hook, line and sinker. For some of us it was not only wrong, but sometimes laughable.
e.g. How many "takes" has Fauci had on: one mask, no mask, 2 masks... like what the? You couldn't make it up! And
HE IS THE SCIENCE. Remember?


MENTAL HEALTH
Lockdowns, the use of masks, tracking and tracing, and fear mongering have deteriorated mental health conditions.
However, the escalation of prescriptions of dependence forming and dangerous mental health medications will
significantly add to the adverse outcomes of the "pandemic" era. See the submissions to the Victorian Royal
Commission into Mental Health - all still available online.


Now you have a mental health problem if you disagree with criminal behaviour, or if you don't want to be
experimented upon, or you like spreading "misinformation". No, you couldn't make this up.


WHAT ABOUT THE ANIMALS THEN? Not satisfied with the human disaster, Australia is now preparing for mRNA for
animals. Apparently ready at August 2023 (though this has not been confirmed in the press to my knowledge). See
"The Definition of a Pandemic" section above.

                 Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                   Page 7 of 8
 INE HEALTH While no-one has been noticing another globalist, unelected, authoritarian "quadripartite
collaboration". One Health has been quietly developing its power base. One Health is an umbrella strategic co­
ordination mechanism, in G20 countries, which is a combination of the FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations), UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme), WHO (World Health Organization) and WOAH
(World Organization for Animal Health, previously OIE). Exit One Health!

So now we have an overarching body, that even if we exited the WHO, would still have clout on Australia's
agricultural sector, food security, animal health, plant health and how it all affects climate and the environment. See
^^^^^^^^ubstack site for in-depth information on the soft-coup, etc. https://MerylNass.substack. com

AUSTRALIAN ROYAL COMMISSION OR INTERNATIONAL GENOCIDE COURT HEARING?

It appears the best option in Australia for redress is unfortunately a Royal Commission. However, previous Royal
Commissions have resulted in very little consequent action, such as criminal charges. Examples include the Wood
Royal Commission into child abuse and pedophilia (the perpetrators never named publicly, nor charged) and the
Victorian Government Royal Commission into Mental Health resulting in a lot more money for the same deeply
flawed system.

King Charles III has repeatedly and obviously aligned himself with globalist organizations and globalist agendas in
preference to the wishes of the Australian people: examples include the World Economic Forum, the United Nations,
numerous climate change organizations, etc.

Royal Commissions do not bring people to justice. We are looking                              here, with international
organizations and identities fully embroiled in the processes. Many globalist players are involved in many globalist
organizations, for decades now: this was not accidental. These criminal influences are in our local communities.

International criminal courts are required, that are uncompromised, in order to deal with the largest crime in human
history: a seemingly impossible task because of the proven level of corruption that exists on the planet.

Thankfully it has been exposed, for those who wish to see.

ECONOMIC DISASTER: CENTRAL BANKS, MONEY PRINTING, MONOPOLY POWER

Australia's deficit has blown out exponentially over the COVID years. The management of the nation has been so bad,
you would be forgiven if you thought it was planned. And it is happening globally. Central banks all over the world
have just been printing money like there is no tomorrow, to kick the can down the road, on to the younger
generations and those not yet born.

We see the rise and consolidation of monopolies in key survival areas such as oil, transport, energy, utilities.
Centralized power,

Our only option for a renaissance is our LOCAL COMMUNITIES.




It will be a rude shock when people face the ugly truth of "COVID-1984".

A "pandemic" was used to track and trace, lock down, ruin family businesses, inflate economies by printing huge
amounts of debt that is causing a massive economic crisis (watch this space), change the Reserve Bank of Australia's
powers (on the table at the moment), bring in surveillance (for your own good, in supermarkets, shopping centres,
public parks...), raise interest rates globally, run down people's savings, split up families, kill people, restrict travel,
cause massive illnesses, centralize records...

The only promoted options appear to be SMART cities, 5G and 6G, Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDC), the Digital
ID, Al, electric cards, reducing your carbon footprint and globalist unfettered power - for THEIR profits, not ours.

Prove me wrong in 3 years.


              Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry December 2023                          Page 8 of 8
