                              SUBMISSION TO COVID ENQUIRY 2023

Firstly, why is there no Royal Commission into the whole Covid 19 management? Secondly, why
is there this secret, buried form that no one knows about, to make a submission?


I don’t expect anyone to read this or any other submissions, so I will make it short. At least I know
I have tried to do something. The one good thing to come out of the past 3 years is you have woken
up the people in their millions.


    1.     ata in hindsight - shows no more excess deaths than a severe flu season. The chases
          of dying from this was less than 1 %. The whole exercise was a complete farce.
    2.     Follow the money - is all you had to do the get to the truth. All about wealth - shifting for
          the people to the corporates.
    3.     Fear Campaign - you had the masses (including myself) complying because of your
          massive fear champaign, locking people down and censoring any opposition.
    4.     There was no health message (still to this day) - when did we hear “get as healthy as you
          can, eat well, exercise, get plenty of vitamin D”. In fact you did the opposite - literally
          locking people down, closing down gyms, parks, beaches & small business, while letting
          all the complete junkfood stores remain in business. The majority of deaths, especially in
          the USA was amongst the morbidly obese. If you cared about us so much you should
          have been using this time to get people healthy.
    5.     No treatment - you banned all treatments many doctors were using with major success
          and passed them off as horse paste etc. Created bogus studies to “prove” they didn’t work
          - if there was a treatment, there would be no vaccine approval.
    6.     Censored Doctors - from speaking out or going against your narrative. You have destroyed
          the trust between doctors and patients forever. Millions are now looking for alternative
          holistic treatments. Many Doctors are shocked at how they have also been lied to for
          years. These great cancelled Doctors are forming a new ways of treating patients.
    7.     Censoring all social media. Employing so called “fact checkers” with absolutely no
          qualifications, to censor everyone, including Doctors and other professionals with many
          qualifications, peer reviewed publications and years of experience.
    8.     Parliament Senate Estimates and other sessions - listening to the handful of caring
          politicians speak up and ask questions, only to receive the most pathetic replies from the
          likes of APHRA, TGA ^^■to name a few. To be ridiculed by other politicians who had
          absolutely no facts, had not done one bit of research, just TV spin.
    9.          Social distancing - just a made up thing.
    10.    Masks - flip flop advise to suit the narrative - there hasn’t been one study to show masks
          work, in fact just the opposite. The damage to peoples health foolish enough to use these
          is horrible. Not the mention the harm to children and learning which will be felt for years to
          come. Industrial Hygienists know the facts about masks, and they are not fit for purpose
          in covid. They were used to silence people and show compliance.
                          SUBMISSION TO COVID ENQUIRY 2023

11.    Forced vaccinations - crime of the century. The amount of bullying, coercion, lack of
      informed consent. To hear politicians now claiming “no-one was forced” is a complete
      insult. People had to work, pay mortgages, feed the family.
12.    Invasion of Privacy - since when is our medical information up for public display? I did
      initially comply and have two injections, but then once I had to display this to be able to
      enter certain places all my red flags came up. I deleted all QR codes and records and
      green ticks. If I had my time over I would never reveal my vaccine statis to anyone every
      again. In fact, now I have done my research I would never have had myself or any of my
      children vaccinated with anything ever. I can never forgive myself for being so easily lied
      to and just complied without question throughout my whole life. That trust has now gone
      forever.
13.    Never tested on pregnant women - in fact                requested that trial participants not be
      pregnant or planning to get pregnant. Yet this was rolled out to everyone as “safe and
      effect”. Doctors alarmed at the sudden increase in miscarriage and still births were
      silenced and cancelled. Ironically we are only now getting an apology for thalidomide
      victims after 60 years. This horrendous drug took 20 years before it got banned.|
      tried to have their trial results suppressed for 75 years as they were so bad.
14.    Children had little or now chance of getting sick from this cold and were mandated to be
      vaccinated in many cases. How dare you impose this poison on 6 month old healthy
      babies. Schools were vaccinating pupils without parental consent. Consent age was
      lowered. Medicare records hidden from parents.
15.    Menstrual cycles disrupted - this was known early on and still pushed on our youth. Who
      knows what long term fertility effects this will have?
16.    Heart problems - we now have to have a defibrillator every 500 metres due to all the
      myocarditis etc that is now a common problem, especially amongst young fit people. They
      are just “dropping dead” all over the place, even in their sleep.
17.         Shingles - another normalized condition that needs to be advertised everywhere.
18.         Long covid - only seems to be a problem with the vaccinated.
19.    Vaccine injured - Not a day goes by without hearing of another horror story of people
      suffering vaccine injury or death. My own health has never been the same. Injured people
      are totally ignored, gaslighted, labelled as anti vaxxers. They are usually denied access
      to the Government compensation system as it is almost impossible to qualify. The “Forrest
      of the Fallen” displays are really waking up the public.
20.    Excess deaths - up around 15-20% around the world in highly vaccinated populations -
      cause unknown? Why aren’t main stream media spewing out the numbers at 11 am every
      morning now? Why is our parliament refusing to investigate the increase in excess
      deaths? I would suggest the data drop out of the New Zealand governments own data
      would tell the story consistent around the world.
                              SUBMISSION TO COVID ENQUIRY 2023

    21.    The World Health Organization - made such a terrible job of handling this world wide and
          now they are trying to double down with the new amendments bill to take over our
          Sovereignty - if this happens I think the masses will really rise up.
    22.    Censorship Bill - if this is passed Australia will be nothing short of a dictatorship. The
          amount of lies told by Government and Media has been horrendous. I, like many, will trust
          or listen to main stream ever again.
    23.    Staff shortages - I know many teenagers who were planning to be doctors, nurses,
          teachers, police, fireman etc who have now totally changed their career paths so
          something less likely to be vaccine mandated. One grandchild needed 3 shots to study to
          be a naturopath for goodness stake. She will get there by other means.


Anyway, I could go on forever. I’m sure there are many much more articulate than myself that are
sending in weighty submissions - that is if they know about it.


I will live with the fact that I am on the right side of history, I am so much more educated and wiser
than I was three years ago.


I will never trust the Government without question ever again. I will never turn on main stream
news to even listen to your latest “rules”, and I will never comply.
