15 December 2023

I am a Australian Citizen and have lived through one of the worst periods in Australia’s
history, namely the Australian Government’s response to the COVID19 “Pandemic”

As a 6th generation Australian, I demand of my democratically elected representatives that
they give the Australian People a thorough and in depth Inquiry into the Australian
Government’s response to this “Pandemic” and the Experimental Immunisations that were
enforced through a coercive manner by the unelected Government Bureaurcrats.

There is an immediate issue with the proposed Covid19 Inquiry in that it excludes all state
actions. This needs to be rectified before proceeding. My reasons for demanding an in­
depth enquiry are listed below:

   1. The actions of the States were supported and paid for by the Federal Government
       and the States and Federal Government together are the Commonwealth of
      Australia.
   2. These were all responsible for ensuring vaccine mandates, state border closures,
       lockdowns, quarantine rules and check-in requirements that were put in place.
   3. A submission window of one week in a period before Christmas is a signal that
       submissions are not really wanted and the people who are supposed to be
       represented will be respected.
   4. The Inquiry is an appeasement to the Australian population to show that the current
       representatives are listening.
   5. This is worse than the usual empty virtue signalling which we are exposed to
       relentlessly, and is even more cynical here as we are dealing with the life, death and
       continued suffering of all Australians who were “vaccinated”.
   6. Governments exercised power that was not given to them by their people, and they
       did it behind closed doors.
   7. Our Governments handed over their power to unelected officials, most of who had no
       medical qualifications to make decisions about the ongoing health of Australian
       citizens. The unelected officials then used this power to violate and coerce the
       population into accepting unsafe and ineffective vaccinations and to implement
       practices which destroyed local economies and families.
   8. Clearly the Government knew the vaccines did not work as advised, as when one
       shot was all that was required, they bought 8 doses for every person in Australia.
   9. Who made a decision to buy all these vaccines which wasted billions of dollars, when
       viruses are known to adapt and change, making these useless and a total waste of
       money?
   10. The National Cabinet met in secrecy, had only a few members and used their power
       to avoid any challenge or scrutiny. The public and properly informed medical
       representatives had no opportunity to input into decisions which were fed to the
       population, through the State Health Ministers and Chief Health Officers, to state
       “rebatum” to an increasingly fearful population.
   11. Scott Morrison initially said on TV that everyone would be vaccinated, then stepped
       away from this when advised that this was unpopular.
12.      He                                                          He and the Federal
    Government were totally complicit in the injury and death of people who took the
    “vaccination”.
13. Even when the Pfizer trial data was released each month as a result of a US judge’s
    order to release their trial data (which they had wanted hidden for 75 years), the
    Government did not update its advice to ensure safety and informed consent.
14. No pregnant women were in that trial, yet pregnant women were encouraged to take
    the experimental “vaccines”, these had never been tested on them.
15. When vaccines were mandated, no exemptions were given to pregnant or lactating
   women even when miscarriage rates rose and babies died from the milk of lactating
    mothers.
16. The TGA which the Government relied on is 95% financed by big pharma and when
    Pfizer admitted in the Netherlands Government that they had never tested their
    vaccines for transmission, the Government did not advise the public or change its
    advice, nor did it did stop demonising the unvaccinated and continued to fund the
    media to do so.
17. The Government removed products such as Ivermectin and Hydroxychlorine from
    use to enable the vaccines to be given emergency use authorisation, even when
    other countries showed these treatments were effective.
18. The National Cabinet was set up to bypass the usual checks and balances of our
    system, meeting in secrecy, and still the minutes have not been disclosed.
19. The Prime Minister gave himself a number of ministerial positions, which was
    unprecedented and this was not even made public, and nor did he advise to his own
    government or ministry. This was illegal, unconstitutional and should never happen a
   functioning democracy.
20. Border closures split families, impacted people’s ability to work, access medical help,
    and they cost a fortune to implement with no benefit. These actions were sanctioned
    by the Federal Government and activated by the States who were rewarded in grants
    and handouts to apply testing, mandates, lockdowns and other forms of coercion
    against their people.
21. The treatment of people in aged care homes was truly appalling. Residents were left
   without qualified staff to look after them, deprived of seeing their loved ones and
    exposed to vaccines that were never tested for their age groups.
22. Regardless of age, none was exempted if the contracted Covid which gave them
    natural immunity, but were enticed to receive more vaccinations. Again the
    Government did not take account of studies that showed natural immunity data that
    they did not want the public to know.
23. There was NO informed consent to take experimental gene therapy drugs. People
   were advised they were getting vaccines whilst the classification being used was
    gene therapy. This was a crime by Government with the assistance of the TGA.
24. Children should never have been given these vaccines and the trial data released by
    Pfizer highlighted this. Why was the data ignored and the access extended to even
    younger ages without any evidence that children were endangered by this infection?
25. No advice was provided on the importance of Vit D and other vitamins and minerals
    even when data showed that these were missing in those who caught infections, in
    some cases people were not allowed to spend time outdoors.
26. Nothing was offered to assist people to boost their immune systems naturally -
    everything was put into the “vaccination” propaganda by harnessing mainstream
    media to be the arm of the Government.
27. No review was taken of other countries’ approaches to identify if there were other
    ways of handling this “pandemic”. Sweden, for example, took a different perspective
    and had a much better outcome.
28. No assistance was given to people in how to handle Covid if they contracted it but
    were encouraged to stay at home until their condition worsened. This meant people
    were left to find their own way through this - no efforts by Government to ensure
    home support remedies. El Salvador gave their people support packs in advance.
29. There was no risk differentiation or personalised health care or post vaccination
    monitoring as should have been the case in using an experimental drug. Where was
    the adherence to medical rigour?
30.      There is no investigation into excess deaths.
31. Everything the Government has done, in collusion with the States, to coerce people
    into taking an experimental drug has contributed to these excess deaths Their
    actions are in breach of the Nuremeberg Code, which was designed to stop such
    totalitarianism ever occurring again. The Code was put in place to ensure that no-one
    was ever to be allowed to be experimented upon again and yet, this is exactly what
    happened.
32. Much of the data relating to decisions and information relating to TGA actions,
    vaccine harms, contracts with vaccine providers etc all have to be sought through the
    use of Freedom of Information requests. Why is this the case when the public have
    the right to know how their taxpayer money is being spent and who is benefitting?
33. The Government database to collect injury information was not working effectively.
    When information was input by injured people, the submit button did not work, so the
    data collected does not represent the true picture.
34. People were not advised that a Death and Disability scheme had been developed
    and provided by the Government. This scheme was released at the same time as
    people were being advised that the vaccines were both safe and effective. How many
    people would have taken the vaccine if they knew the Government was expecting
    harm to occur?
35. As the jab effectiveness ratios have moved down almost monthly from the first
    quoted 95% effectiveness, the Government has not made this public or updated its
    advice. Why not? How can people give informed consent when the information they
    should be provided with is not there?
36. Vaccine exemptions were not allowed to be given by doctors. They were threatened
    by the organisation that was run by                          Why were doctors not
    allowed to exercise their judgement as medical practitioners? Why are they not
    allowed to speak now?
37. When Florida in the US, and other countries such as Thailand, identified the adverse
    impact of the vaccines on young males, why did the Government not investigate this
    and inform the Australian public.
38. What research had the Government at all levels done to prepare in advance for a
    pandemic? The public should know this along with the facts about what preparations
    for handling a pandemic were overridden on this occasion.
39. People need to be held accountable for their actions in breaching the Nuremberg
    Code and their role in injuring and killing both our people and our economy.
