                   Submission to Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry

I am a research scientist (PhD) with over 25 years of experience working in Life Sciences, Medicine and Public
Health. I have been concerned about the accuracy of data being presented by various levels of Government,
Government Authorities and Public Health officials regarding case numbers, hospitalizations and deaths
associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection, and the safety of the Covid-19 vaccines.

I have spent three years conducting independent research and have generated a substantial number of
analyses that do not support the broad and generally unsubstantiated claims made by the Governments,
Government Authorities and Public Health Officials to support the COVID-19 response.
The following document lists several items that I propose for inclusion within the framework of the
Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry. I believe the requested investigations are vital
given the central role of the information in informing the COVID-19 response. I request that the findings of
the investigations are made available in sufficient detail for peer-review of all methods and interpretations.
Review of methodology for testing and classifying case numbers, hospitalizations and deaths associated
with infection with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
A core component of evaluating the COVID-19 response is examining the impact COVID-19 infection has had
on the health of the Australian population. Key to this is the accurate and reliable identification of health
outcomes resulting from Sars-CoV-2 infection including infection rates, hospitalisations, admissions to
Intensive Care Units (ICU), and deaths. The latter is, in turn, dependent on the availability of reliable and
valid criteria for classifying COVID-19 cases.

It is recommended that the Covid-19 Response Inquiry include a full review of the available data regarding
the suitability, validity and accuracy of the principal methodology used in the detection of COVID-19
infection, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for COVID-19, a test touted as the gold standard for use in
identifying COVID-19 cases, hospitalisations, and deaths.

This includes: a full review of research that properly establishes (1) the range of false positive and false
negative rates for COVID-19 PCR tests conducted on asymptomatic and symptomatic individuals; (2) a review
of whether these rates are acceptable for a "gold standard" diagnostic tool; (3) how methodological factors
such as sample storage, processing, transport, temperatures and the number of amplification cycles used in
the analyses of samples can impact the false positive and false negative rates, and (4) a clear determination
of any cross-reactivity that the COVID-19 PCR test may have with other microbes or compounds.

It is also recommended that the enquiry review each testing site to examine (1) the specific methodological
characteristics of each site (regarding all items listen in item 3 of the above paragraph) and (2) the adequacy
of training of laboratory staff conducting the PCR tests or otherwise managing samples and/or results. These
investigations are essential to an assessment of the accuracy and validity of the results from each testing site,
and therefore to the accuracy and validity of the broader case counts etc.

It is recommended that the enquiry also include a review of the quality and validity of COVID-19 case and
death classifications using the WHO recommended ICD code of U07.1 and U07.2. This includes a review of
the false positive and false negative rates that results from the application of these codes, and other issues
potentially affecting the accuracy, validity and clinical relevance of classifications of COVID-19 cases using
these ICD codes.

Evaluation of the definitions of these two code definitions illustrates how their application may impact, and
potentially inflate case numbers and the numbers of hospitalisations, ICU admissions and deaths.

Definition of U07.1 - individuals with a laboratory confirmation of infection with CO VID-19, irrespective of
clinical signs and symptoms. Under this code, a person can have no symptoms of COVID-19 infection at all
and be classified as a COVID-19 case, hospitalisation and/or COVID death, based on a positive test result
alone. In the absence of symptoms, and a relevant estimate of the false positive rates of the PCR and other
test used to identify COVID-19 cases, it is uncertain whether a case defined this way is valid and has any
clinical significance at all. The application of this classification code may have inflated case counts
substantially and engenders the hospitalization, ICU and death data potentially misleading and
uninterpretable. This issue is exacerbated in NSW where the classification of cases, hospitalisations and

                                                                                                      1 | Page
deaths has included back-capturing positive COVID-19 test results from 14 to 28 days prior to presentation at
hospital, regardless of whether covid symptoms were present or whether an individual is currently
registering as positive to the disease.

Definition of U07.2 = an individual who is suspected of having CO VID-19 but laboratory testing for CO VID-19
is inconclusive or unavailable and a clinical determination of COVID-19 has been made. The clinical diagnoses
of individuals under this code, even in the face of negative test results, when the symptomology of the
condition shares so many clinical characteristics with other respiratory disorders such as viral pneumonia,
and a myriad of vaccine injuries such as multi-inflammatory disease, myocarditis, TSSI, also has the potential
to inflate case counts and health outcomes and engender a misinterpretation of data.

Review of Any Changes to Testing for Non-COVID-19 Infections with Similar Symptomatology
There has been claims that medical professionals were instructed not to test for influenza infection at certain
periods during 2021 and 2022, regardless of symptom presentation, and to only test for COVID-19 infection.
Such a directive may inflate the false categorisation of individuals as COVID-19 infections under ICD code
U07.2 through restricting the ability to identify alternative diagnoses with over-lapping clinical presentation
and may explain a drop in influenza cases and non-COVID-19 respiratory infections reported in 2021.

Review of the storage/management of genetic information generated via the conduct of PCR tests
Also recommended is a full review of the fate of genetic profiles generated during the conduct of each
individual PCR test. Was all genetic information generated during the conduct of tests (except for the test's
outcome) destroyed following the test? If not, why not, and what are the details of the information's storage
and use following the test. Is there any evidence that the genetic information generated by these tests has
been provided to anyone for uses other than for the determination of COVID-19 status?

Review of any payments paid to pharmacies, health professionals, and specialist doctors regarding the
identification and management of covid 19 patients.
This includes a comprehensive review of (1) any payments paid to pharmacies, health professionals, and
specialist doctors who were administering the vaccines and (2) any payments made to COVID-19 testing
laboratories, medical and allied health professionals, clinics, hospitals, coroners, or any other person involved
in the categorization of individuals as having COVID-19 infection.

Review of classification of vaccination status in public health and media reports comparing cases,
hospitalisations, ICU admissions and death
Recommendation to review how SARS-CoV-2 cases were classified in public health reports involving COVID-
19 vaccination status. A review of reports where vaccinated individuals (individuals who have had a COVID-
19 vaccine at any time) were included in the unvaccinated or no-effective dose group, and how this
categorisation impacted interpretations, is required.

Recommendation to re-evaluate differences in rates of infection, hospitalisation, ICU admission and death
between unvaccinated (no dose) and vaccinated individuals using standardised methodology to identify
cases (i.e. a current diagnosis of COVID-19 infection, excluding individuals previously classified as cases based
on historical, unstandardised back-capturing of positive test results for periods of between 14 and 28 days)
and following strict adherence to standardised classification criteria that do not include vaccinated
individuals (who have received a covid-19 vaccine at any time), or people of unknown vaccination status, in
the unvaccinated group/no dose group, and where the percentages of the comparative groups who become
infected with COVID-19, or are hospitalised, admitted to ICU, or die "from/or with" COVID-19 are calculated
based only on the individuals of known vaccination status.

Review of post-market!ng pharmacovigilance by Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)
Request a review and report of the processes undertaken by the TGA to monitor the safety of the COVID-19
vaccines which were initially released on provisional approval and listed on the Black Triangle Scheme. The
provision of detailed information around the TGAs processes, their findings, and ultimately their
interpretations and decisions relating to the safety and full registration of the vaccines is essential to allow
peer-review of their methodology and evaluations, and to ensure that people and not product is protected.
The TGA is heavily sponsored by pharmaceutical companies ('95%) and was previously suggested to lack
independence and to display processes that may be interpreted as protecting product over people

                                                                                                      2 | Page
(https://www.health.wa.gov.au/Reports-and-publications/Ministerial-Review-Public-Health-Response-into-
     idverse-Events-to-the-Se sc al-lnflut za-Va    ie). The latter is particularly important in the framework
of mandating provisional medications that are so classified for the very fact that the TGA has acknowledged
that safety has not been fully established.

It is also indicated by the sheer number of Adverse Event Reports that list the Covid-19 vaccines as the
suspected medicine that have been added to the Database of Adverse Event Notification (DAEN) since the
release of the COVID-19 vaccines https://daen.tga.gov.au/medicines-search/. As of 15 December 2023, the
TGA DAEN has a total of 612,167 adverse event reports (AERs) that have been listed in association with
10,164 medical terms across 52 years from 1 Jan 1971 to 1 Dec 2023. 44,050 of these AERs listed a cardiac
disorder and 14,630 were associated with an outcome of death. AERs where Covid-19 vaccines are listed as
the suspected medicine relate to only 11 of the 10,164 terms (0.1%) over a period from 1 Dec 2020 until 1
Dec 2023 but have contributed 139,606 of the AERs (22.8%) and 16,618 of the AERs including cardiac
disorders (37.7%). For 1006 of the AERs listing COVID-19 vaccines as the suspected medicine, death was
reported as an outcome. This is 6.9% of all deaths ever listed on the DAEN.

The review of AERs where COVID-19 vaccines is listed as a suspected medicine should include the following:
(1) a summary and evaluation of the number of adverse events reported to the TGA; (2) a review of the total
number of AERs listed in the internal Adverse Event Management System (AEMS) database including
specification of the number with death as an outcome; (3) detail regarding the process of review of the AERs
listed in the AEMS including the inclusion/exclusion criteria applied when determining which AERs will be
submitted to the DAEN, how many AERs were excluded from the DAEN under each of exclusion criteria,
where duplicates are indicated, the DAEN case number of the duplicate, and an outline of the demographics
and adverse event terms associated with the AERs excluded from the DAEN; (4) an outline of data audit
processes; (5) an outline of management of incomplete data (missing age, gender and/or adverse event
data); (6) how deaths are reviewed and, to date, how many can be ruled out as being the result of the
COVID-19 vaccination (7) a review of the protocols undertaken to evaluate the number and types of adverse
events reported against the background of AER typically reported with the purpose of identifying safety
signals; (8) the provision of detail regarding the tolerance limits and stopping criteria related to the
assessment of safety signals, what has TGA done to date to assess safety signals, what they have observed
and on what basis were safety signals, if found, ignored; and (8) what are the details of the product testing
procedures, including tolerance limits and rejection criteria, and what was found in regards to quality.

Review of post-market!ng pharmacovigilance by the National Centre for Immunisation Research and
Surveillance (NCIRS)
AusVaxSafety is an active post-marketing pharmacovigilance program that collects data through a survey sent
via text to individuals who receive vaccines at participating centres/clinics. Surveys are sent 3, 8 and 42 days
after vaccination. The surveys collect information about: (1) whether one or more adverse events were
experienced following vaccination; (2) whether the adverse event(s) resulted in the person seeking medical
help and, what type of help was sort (phone advice, GP, visit to hospital emergency); (3) whether vaccination
impacted routine activities, and (4) whether a number of specific, more generalised adverse events were
experienced. Participants were also provided a free text box to provide further information. In addition to
these general surveys, AusVaxSafety is working with the TGA and other government departments to conduct
an Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI) long-term follow up program that specifically tracks AESI such as
anaphylaxis, myocarditis, and Thrombosis with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome (TTS).
Despite all the data being collected by AusVaxSafety and others, only a summary of the findings for the Day 3
survey has been provided on the AusVaxSafety website for the public for review. The Day 8 and Day 42 data
have not been provided. Neither has any data relating to the free text response given with any of the three
surveys, or any of the results of the AESI long-term follow up program, been provided by the NCIRS. The
AusVaxSafety surveys have been being conducted since 2021 and the failure to provide access to the study
findings is unacceptable.

Request a review of data collection processes and an outline of all findings to date for the day 3, 8, and 42
surveys and the AESI programs, as a matter of urgency. This should include a detailed provision of
methodology, and access to adverse event data provided in the free text responses.

                                                                                                     3 | Page
