Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
My name is                            In 2020 I was working                                             in a nursing home in
                        I am married withBchildren.

I make this submission because I should. Not because I think it will result in any justice for the people of Australia, and
in particular Victorians. That confidence was beaten out of me a long time ago.

I am appalled but not surprised that the scope of this enquiry does not include actions taken by the state governments.
This is nothing short of whitewashing and is a deliberate move to keep the proverbial can of worms unopened. Typical.
Disgustingly cowardly, but typical.

The actions of the federal government however during 2020 + were cowardly. To fail to uphold constitutional law which
overrides state law is a gross negligence of responsibility. Constitutional law speaks of the right to informed consent to
medical treatment.    During the Covid-19 period, we were not given either the right to refuse medical treatment (eg. the
Covid “vaccine") nor informed consent, because the real impact of so called 'vaccines' were unknown. It wasn't even a
'vaccine' in the proper sense of the word as it neither prevented transmission or contraction of the disease, which is
what vaccines are supposed to do. And we knew this after reading Pfizer's first study, and the comments from the CEO.
But we were coerced anyway. And it's since been proven publicly that we were right.

I draw attention to Constitutional law here:

Informed consent to medical treatment [i]

(My additions in black):
 10.47 At common law, all competent adults can consent to and refuse medical treatment. If consent is not
established, there may be legal consequences for health professionals. (What consequences??) Under the law of
trespass, patients have a right not be subjected to an invasive procedure without consent or other lawful
justification, such as an emergency or necessity. (Apparently we don’t). At the international level, the CRPD
expresses this in terms of a ‘right to respect for his or her physical and mental integrity on an equal basis with
others’.^
 10.48 ‘Informed consent’ refers to consent to medical treatment and the requirement to warn of material risk
prior to treatment. As part of their duty of care, health professionals must provide such information as is
necessary for the patient to give consent to treatment, including information on all material risks of the
proposed treatment. Failure to do so may lead to civil liability for an adverse outcome, even if the treatment
itself was not negligent.-36] “The world is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination
trial ever, and we will have enormous amounts of data.” - Greg Hunt, 21 Feb 2021 .... so how can we have
given informed consent given we had no knowledge of the material risks given we were in a clinical trial? And
where is the liability for adverse outcomes? THERE IS NONE.


Do I even need to break this down? This was completely steamrolled, for a disease that for the majority of people who
were not immunocompromised or elderly was unpleasant but from which there were no lasting adverse effects. Far
more adverse effects - and deaths - have been experienced from the so-called solution, the 'vaccine'. And don't you
DARE suggest we weren't coerced. That suggestion is the most deliberately deceitful and abhorrently insulting thing I
have heard from parliament and that's saying something, because there's a hell of a lot to choose from in that category.

You denied us the 'Right to health' by denying us access to Ivermectin, which was not only harmless if taking the correct
human dose but which has legitimate and verifiable benefits as a treatment for Covid 19, - go look at the statistics in
India and Utter Pradesh. You denied us information about the legitimate role of Vitamin D in prevention and treatment.
You broke the law in so many ways I can't count. The Nuremberg Code, the UN charters, the Australian Constitution.
There is no redress, there will be no redress, and you have not learnt any lessons. I cannot begin to tell you how angry I
am. I am angry, ashamed of my country's representatives save a few brave voices in parliament and in medicine, roundly
abused, cancelled and ridiculed. They were right. I'm not even going to start about the criminality of the denial of
freedom of movement during lockdowns and the vilification of the unvaccinated, in ways reminiscent
        including comments that the unvaccinated had no right to participate in society, because of a campaign of fear
and bigotry that you allowed at the very least, and I'd warrant more accurately, deliberately fostered. But you will not
hold yourselves accountable.

I summarise for the sake of brevity the government's decisions during 2020-2023 impact personally and on my family.

In^^^^^^^|was stood down by my place of employment in the nursing home due to the Victorian government
mandates, they were unable to answer my questions about the effect of the 'vaccine' and neglected their obligation to
provide a safety risk assessment which I requested, (both being a breach of fair work laws). I am still technically
employed as they were too cowardly to terminate my employment, knowing it was a further breach of law. But I am not
allowed to work there. The Human Rights Commission received so many applications via                                  they
refused to consider them all. Because that's how it should work, right? If there are too many injustices, you sweep
them under the carpet for the sake of bureaucratic efficiency. The effect was that I was considered effectively 'leperous'
because I declined to be injected with something I didn't know the effects of. My livelihood was gone and we were
financially penalised, which was needless to say extremely stressful. My right, by federal law, is to decline medical
treatment, but I was penalised, barred from employment, entry into doctor's clinics, shops, hairdressers and anything
else deemed 'unessential', even my church. For shame. Might I add that even after every staff member or visitor had to
be doubly vaccinated to enter the nursing home premises, as well as the vast majority of residents being 'vaccinated',
they had wave after wave of outbreak. And since 3 vaccines were mandated, more waves of outbreaks. Highly effective
this 'vaccine' is, right?. And may I mention the result of staff leaving (either being stood down or resigning due to the
mandates) resulted in ridiculously inappropriate resident to staff ratio to this day. The quality of life has radically
diminished. But that's a state government issue isn't it? Except it's not, there are federal run homes too.... but nothing
to see here folks....




                                                                     So much for informed consent. THIS IS WHAT YOU
HAVE ALLOWED. You can blame it on the State Government but federal law and constitutional law overrides state law.
And has been totally ignored. Cowardly, deceitful, lazy, rotten scoundrels.

In             2021 my then^Byear-old daughter experienced cardiac arrythmia and chest pains after receiving one
dose of Pfizer. The specialist recommended she not receive another. She was unable to get an exemption from having
to receive a second dose of other options, and needed to                                            (highly risky apparently)
and so received a second dose of something else. Pfizer's 'vaccine' ALREADY had a reputation of causing myocarditis,
which was verified after seeing the aftermath of massive vaccination rates in Israel. It was ignored. Will she be alright in
the future? We don't know. But will she have redress? No. Indemnity to all, except those who wanted to retain their
freedom, those are right wing extremists and must be monitored....

My son,^Hyears old, with a ^^^^^^^^^^Hcondition was totally locked down and isolated with me, 2 weeks prior to
                          surgery (standard                           at                        Hospital which went wrong
due to a dangerous infection around one week post discharge. We could not enter the hospital and see him during that
time, despite the dangerous situation. He was there for almost a month. He could have died alone. Whilst there, he
was given the Pfizer 'vaccine', because he worked in^^^^^^^H(outdoors, so apparently highly risky, right?). His
                                                issues treated by medication instead. He was well until          we
contracted Covid (he was doubly vaccinated at this time, so clearly it did not stop transmission or contraction,
propaganda which you were still pushing despite lack of evidence). By^H he was unwell
         A brief hospital admission did not help.                                          Were these caused by his change
of medication? Or undiagnosed myocarditis? We will never know. No one would be brave enough to even admit the
possibility of vaccine related adverse effect. By^Hhe was on the^^Jtransplant list.

Do you have any idea how this felt to us all? Do you have any idea how stressful all the restrictions were? Will you take
any responsibility? No. You won't. This inquiry is just a thin veneer of caring, and let's all agree to the draconian
pandemic treaty from the WHO with similar coercion and control to come.

Despite an exemption, the^^| hospital made it near impossible for me to visit my son who was slowly dying. So I
received the Novavax. But unbeknowns to me, they had recently changed the visitor regulations, so being coerced into a
medical procedure I never wanted and lost my job over was effectively useless. On                    we got a call to say a
donor^^Hwas available. My son had to be at the hospital virtually immediately. And they mentioned that the donor
had Covid, did he still want the heart?

Please tell me why I was treated as a leprous villan for not wanting the Covid 'vaccine' and yet a heart from a donor with
Covid was perfectly acceptable?

Do not misunderstand me. I am not complaining about the medical treatment and expertise from the^^^|transplant
team. I am in awe and will forever be grateful to the donor and their family for the priceless gift of this new^^H The
                 transplant department is second to none in this country, and my family and I are all eternally grateful
for this. But it's fair to ask the question about how logical were the 'vaccine' mandates and government decisions in
light of our experience? Will anyone answer the question?

Due to government decisions during the pandemic^^^^^^Hhave had increased anxiety, depression. I cannot tell you
the effect on                      specifically as it's highly personal but what transpired because of lengthy periods of
lockdown changed her forever and left her traumatised in a way no girl (or boy for that matter) should ever have to go
through. Not one of^^^^^M has been untouched by depression or anxiety during this time, 2 with official medical
diagnoses.

Our^^^^^l a paramedic with patient transport observing his clientele reported high incidences of teens, particularly
girls, self-harming during the pandemic He got so burnt out he is now incapable of work and suffering his own mental
illness.

                     after a lengthy period of unemployment aside from some private work given by people who knew
me personally and valued me more than my vaccination status, I got a new job in                               I stated I'd had
one dose of the Covid 'vaccine' on the application. They did not mention any vaccine conditions for employment either
during the interview, follow up HR conversation, or after I sent them all my documents including my Covid 'vaccine'
certificate. I signed all the paperwork on my first day, none of which outlined their Covid 'vaccine' policy. 5 weeks later
(during which what I can honestly say was high productivity and professionalism in my work) the HR lady asked me for
my other date. I told her there was only one, explaining this had been stated on the online application. They told me to
work at home until they'd investigated the current law after I told them the mandates had changed in Victoria and did
not apply in our context. With no other communication, one week later they sacked me, effective immediately, with less
than an hour before knock off, with no explanation because "you are on probation and we don't legally need to give you
one". Absolutely unconscionable.

Do you understand the effects of government decisions are ongoing? Can you really deflect all this to State
Governments and take no responsibility?

So what's this submission for? Because I want to say I had my say, even though I have zero confidence in all but a small
number of senators. They spoke for us, they will speak for us. Victoria has deteriorated in more ways than I can
describe. Had the federal government done its job and upheld our constitutional rights this never would have
happened. Shame on Victorian politicians (one in particular). But shame, shame on you.

^^^^^^Hsupposedly said 'evil prospers when good men do nothing'. I would add, evil prospers when bad men and
women are the decision makers.
Are you either? If not, prove it.




    (1) https://www.alrc.gov.au/publication/equality-capacity-and-disability-in-commonwealth-laws-dp-81/10-review-
        of-state-and-territory-legislation/informed-consent-to-medical-treatment/
