COVID-19 Response Enquiry Terms of Reference

This enquiry must challenge past assumptions, propaganda and censorship.

The federal government’s errors killed many Australians, ruined lives and wasted billions of
dollars. The government coerced citizens into injecting a dangerous new mRNA technology
“vaccine” whilst falsely claiming the jabs weren’t compulsory. The federal government
encouraged the states and corporations to mandate it as a condition of employment, and refused
to pass legislation to prevent vaccine discrimination such as the C OVID-19 Vaccination Status
(Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19
Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023.

Before November 2020, Health Minister Greg Hunt declared, on zero evidence, that the jabs
were “safe and effective”. Then on 21st February 2021, he admitted, “The world is engaged in
the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial ever, and we will have enormous
amounts of data.” Public health messaging needs to be investigated to ensure it was all referenced
to credible scientific sources.

Giving $8 billion to global pharmaceutical companies for poorly tested gene-therapies, sight
unseen, must be investigated. The federal government was reckless rushing through new
technology gene-altering shots whilst giving the manufacturers exemption from liability.
Manufacturers like Pfizer, with a history of fraud, tried to withhold their damning safety trial data
for 75 years! Also having Jane Halton, chair of CEPI (which promotes vaccines on behalf of the
Gates Foundation) reviewing the procurement deal, might constitute a conflict of interest.

On the federal government’s directive, healthcare workers were withholding safe and effective
treatments from ill Covid patients. Additionally, they were administering untested Remdesivir
treatments and dangerous intubation. This was criminally negligent and needs to be included in
the COVID-19 Response Enquiry’s terms of reference.

The diagnostic testing methods, the effectiveness of masks and PPE plus government isolation
directives need to be considered too.

The exorbitant cost of building quarantine facilities plus the use of our defence force and police
needs to be assessed too.

Advanced payments to companies like Qantas to bring Australians home, then failing to do so,
needs to be included in the terms of reference.

Until the determination of a Royal Commission is published, the Australian government should
immediately:-

•   Repeal the 2017 legislation creating provisional registration and insist on proper testing for
    novel drugs.
•   Immediately halt the distribution of gene-vaccine products pending independent testing.
•   Remove the influence of pharmaceutical corporations and their “philanthropic” partners such
    as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation or the Wellcome Trust from government and
    universities.
•   Sack, and where appropriate, prosecute the public servants and corporate lobbyists
    responsible for this disaster.
•   Exit the World Health Organisation, which is no longer an advisory organisation representing
    member nations. It has become a public-private partnership paid for by corporations and
    billionaire “philanthropists” who direct policy.
