           #ContinuityofCare
           Collaboration




Response to the Australian Government's COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Executive Summary: The Continuity of Care Collaboration (CCC) appreciates the opportunity
to contribute to this critical inquiry. Our unique collaborative model, vision for prioritized
healthcare, mission-driven initiatives, and data-driven approaches position us to provide
valuable insights into the pandemic's impact on healthcare continuity and recommendations
for future resilience.

Introduction: The CCC represents a unique spectrum of healthcare stakeholders, including
patient organizations, industry, peak bodies, and healthcare providers from public, private,
and not-for-profit sectors. Our vision is to ensure all Australians prioritise their healthcare for
a productive nation, and our mission is to encourage Australians to maintain their ongoing
healthcare needs. As a collective voice in healthcare matters, we do not replace individual
member companies but enhance their impact through collaboration. We are a not-for-profit
organisation with over 25 members and more information can be found at
www.continuityofcare.org.au and further information in the appendix.

The two areas where the CCC would like to contribute to are:
   • Terms of Reference: Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19
       vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective
       equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).
   • Terms of Reference: Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19
       and/or lockdowns (for example mental health and suicide prevention supports,
       and access to screening and other preventive health measures).

The CCC was an integral partner in public health messaging during the COVID-19 pandemic.
This included the well-regarded public health campaign of #dontwaitmate where there were
two key elements of public health messaging.

The high-level key messages were:
    •   Priority: If you have an acute or chronic health condition that requires a clinical
        interaction, it is important you have it. This included keeping up with your regular
        preventative screening tests.
    •   Safety: Clinical providers are ensuring measures to protect patients from COVID-19
        infection. This was to ensure that people felt safe in keeping up with their regular
        healthcare checks and tests, as well as vaccine information.

The CCC was a communication channel that achieved the following in the pandemic:

    •   The Collaboration conducted a multi-channel communications campaign including a
        sustained earned media campaign from April to June 2020 focussing on chronic
        health conditions. There was high journalist interest in the implications from the fall
        in healthcare interactions.




Continuity of Care Collaboration                                       www.continuityofcare.org
          #ContinuityofCare
          Collaboration




   •   The large number of prominent CCC members provided depth and credibility to
       messages, and storylines could be adapted to member's areas of expertise.


   •   An open letter signed by CCC members was published nationally in Fairfax Media,
       The Herald and Weekly Times and pharmacy media.

   •   The CCC generated over 75 storylines on the issue featuring spokespeople from the
       RACGP, AMA, Diabetes Australia, Medicines Australia and The Heart Foundation.

   •   A CCC survey of 729 consumers found 32% of respondents had delayed a GP during
       the pandemic, and 21% a pathology test. 59% were worried they would be around
       people with COVID-19 when attending health appointments, and 55% felt it was safe
       to delay regular appointments if their condition had not changed.

   •   Social media creative was shared throughout CCC channels reaching more than 1.4
       million people. A webinar on the CCC aimed at patients had more than 200 register
       to attend.

   •   London Agency engaged Federal politicians to post social media videos encouraging
       their constituents to maintain healthcare. Participating MPs included Dr Katie Allen,
       Dr Michael Freelander, Linda Burney, Graham Perrett, Gavin Pearce and Jason Clare.


   •   Throughout the campaign the CCC engaged with Federal and State Health Ministers
       and the Department of Health. The CCC key messages featured in the media briefings
       by Deputy CMO Prof Michael Kidd (2nd May) and also Minister for Health Greg Hunt
       MP. "If you have missed a test, if you have missed a scan, please go and get it" Greg
       Hunt, media conference, 28th May 2020

The CCC's Point of Difference: The CCC focuses on seven areas of care: Prevention; Chronic
Disease Management; Vaccination; Cancer Screening; Adherence to Medicines; Acute Care
Management; and Pathology Testing.

These communications across the member group meant that we reached over 2 million
Australians and provided the necessary support for people to feel informed and safe.

Our response and recommendations are underpinned by authoritative data provided
through exclusive partnerships with national and state-based pathology partners. This data-
driven backbone allows us to measure the impact of our campaigns and adjust our strategies
based on the evolving healthcare requirements of Australians.

Healthcare During the Pandemic: The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted
healthcare engagement in Australia. The CCC, through its authoritative data and analysis
provided by Deakin University, has identified concerning trends in pathology testing uptake.



Continuity of Care Collaboration                                   www.continuityofcare.org
          #ContinuityofCare
          Collaboration




This decline has potential long-term repercussions for disease management and preventive
health measures.

Impact of Government Decisions: The government's response, both at the national and
state level, has been critical to managing the pandemic. The CCC acknowledges the
complexity of these decisions and their direct and indirect impacts on healthcare access. Our
data indicates that clearer communication and a more integrated approach could have
mitigated some of these effects. It is imperative moving forward that communications to all
Australians remain consistent and educate people for the short-term and long-term.

Recommendations for Future Preparedness: Informed by our authoritative data and the
collective expertise of our members, the CCC recommends:

   1. Strengthening Data Integration: Establishing a framework for real-time data sharing
      between government health departments and organizations like the CCC.
           •   Timely data i.e. real-time or within a 30-day period is essential to be able to
               make informed decisions and see key trends in healthcare data that need
               immediate solutions.

   2. Enhancing Communication Strategies: Ensuring clear, consistent, and actionable
      public health messaging that aligns with data trends and healthcare service
      availability.
           •   The CCC demonstrated that by working across multiple stakeholder's groups
               from patients, industry, peak bodies, and patient organisations, that cause,
               and effect were noted for each decision that was made by the government.
               For example, when one group was the main implementer of a strategy i.e.
               vaccine rollout, patients and other organisations were able to identify
               unintended consequences of the implementation i.e. misinformation or lack
               of information, and CCC public health messaging was able to be crafted to
               ensure understanding and the correct information. This was then shared
               across all CCC members to keep as many people informed as possible.
           •   Another recommendation is that we have one consistent source of
               messaging. It became very confusing and complex at times with having both
               Federal Government and State Government messaging and various
               healthcare protocols. To be prepared for another pandemic, one source of
               information with a consistent approach from all a National and State
               perspective is optimal. It also needs to be messaging that is educating
               Australians for the long-term to ensure that people can make informed
               choices and decisions about their healthcare. Too often the communications
               were 'parent-child' rather than peer to peer, which would have resulted in
               much more clear and effective messaging.
           •   The target audience is Australians requiring regular interaction with medical
               services and a successful campaign outcome would be a return to pre COVID-




Continuity of Care Collaboration                                     www.continuityofcare.org
          #ContinuityofCare
          Collaboration




               19 healthcare patterns especially in terms of preventative screening tests to
               ensure cancer diagnoses are diagnosed earlier.

   3. Improving Healthcare Access: Developing resilient systems for maintaining
      healthcare services, including telehealth and digital health platforms, to support
      continuity of care during crises.
           •   A big step forward for Australian healthcare was the implementation of
               Telehealth services and e-scripts. This was very welcomed by all patient
               organisations, peak bodies, and healthcare industries, as it allowed
               Australians to have choice in the manner in which they access their
               healthcare services but also provided many patients with a 'safe' way to
               access services when they did not feel 'safe'. This was very pronounced with
               patients who were immunocompromised who were avoiding going into
               hospital care settings to not contract COVID-19. The CCC strong advocates for
               both Telehealth and E-scripts to become more embedded into the healthcare
               system as it provides a lot of value for patients and efficiencies within
               healthcare.
           •   MyHealthRecord is another important tool for Australians to be able to access
               their health records, pathology tests and vaccination record. This needs to be
               further implemented and more education around how to access it and fully
               utilise the functionally of which the CCC can be an integral partner for the
               government.
           •   The CCC would also advocate for a more integrated system that allows for
               more timely data access as well as the ability to measure patient outcomes.

   4. Investing in Healthcare Infrastructure: Addressing workforce shortages and system
      inefficiencies highlighted during the pandemic to bolster the healthcare sector's
      capacity.
           •   This is one of the most important aspects of Australian healthcare. We need
               to look at innovative ways to attract more staff into the professional
               healthcare areas and we also need to look at how we resource various areas
               with task-shifting. We saw during the pandemic, that pharmacists were able
               to provide COVID-19 and FLU vaccinations at their pharmacies, and this
               helped to reduce the burden on GP's workloads and also provided Australians
               with a way to access that was convenient and local to them. We need to see
               all key stakeholders look at ways to reduce workloads and bottlenecks within
               the system to ensure efficiencies and cost savings are fully realised. The CCC
               can play a major role in this with member surveys, stakeholder meetings and
               Think Tanks.

Conclusion: The CCC is committed to working with the government and other key
stakeholders to enhance Australia's pandemic preparedness. Our unique collaboration,
driven by a shared vision and grounded in data, stands ready to support an Australian
healthcare system that is resilient, adaptive, and patient-centred.




Continuity of Care Collaboration                                    www.continuityofcare.org
             #ContinuityofCare
             Collaboration




We thank the Inquiry Panel for considering our submission and look forward to contributing
further to the discourse on improving Australia's healthcare system in the face of future
challenges.

Appendices:
   •      Data reports and analysis from Deakin University.
   •      Case studies demonstrating the impact of CCC campaigns.
   •      Evidence of healthcare engagement trends during the pandemic.

DATA REPORTS / CASE STUDIES

Two large private pathology laboratories provided access to their weekly testing data compared to
the weekly average for February - before COVID-19 restrictions occurred. This allowed the CCC to
see trends in consumer behaviour within days of it occurring - far quicker than via sources e.g. MBS
data. These insights meant that the CCC could quickly identify and prioritise issues, develop and
distribute key messages and then measure impact.

Pathology testing rates, March-April

  10%

  o%

 •10%

 ■20%

 ■30%

 •40%

 •50%

 ■60%

 -70%

 -80%

    O?"
                                                          /sO               £

             AV    O)V


             Full Blood Court     HbAlc   HOL                   Histology

          — HIV                 —HFV      Lipid Studies         PSA




As of June 2020, healthcare participation is significantly improved. Private Healthcare Australia
data shows general treatment services have rebounded to 85% of normal rates. Pathology testing
rates have returned to pre-pandemic levels. In the week of 8th June, testing participation for
diabetes (HbAlc) and cancer (histology) exceeded the weekly average for February 2020.




Continuity of Care Collaboration                                                www.continuityofcare.org
                #ContinuityofCare
                Collaboration




Pathology testing rates, March-June 2020

  10%
  0%    2

 -10%   *

 -20%

 -30%

 -40%

 -50%

 -60%

  70%

 -80%




            —Pull Blood Count   HbAlc                   —   Histology
                HIV             HPV     lipid Studies




Campaign messaging is pivoting to an onus to make up for missed healthcare with the theme of a
"catch up, check-up".

The creativity and innovation of the program was that such a large and diverse group of healthcare
stakeholders has never engaged to participate on a health issue and mobilised in such a short time.
As one CCC member described "we have been able to create something, that Government and others
have been unable to do".

Given the high stakes and short time frame, a low touch governance model was adopted to enable
rapid activation.

The combined reach of the CCC members through owned and earned media channels enabled a vast
impact.

The group's focus on data has enabled accurate identification of high-needs areas and impact
measurement.

The actions of the CCC were achieved with virtually no campaign budget other than the "sweat
equity" of its participants and delivered during a time of significant disruption to the business
operations of all members.

It is testament to the achievements of the CCC that its model is now being adopted by healthcare
organisations in countries including India, Singapore and Malaysia.

“We all have a responsibility to keep people safe and healthy during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Patients need to continue with their regular GP visits, pathology testing, vaccinations and taking
medications, as we want to ensure that peoples' health is managed now and in the long-term."

Elizabeth de Somer, CEO of Medicines Australia, CCC launch media release.




Continuity of Care Collaboration                                          www.continuityofcare.org
