  <>♦         Private Healthcare Australia
              Better Cover. Better Access. Better Care.




Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
December 2023




Contact:
Julia Medew - Public Affairs and Policy Officer
About Private Healthcare Australia
Private Healthcare Australia (PHA) is the Australian private health insurance industry's peak
representative body. We have 21 registered health funds throughout Australia as members and
collectively represent 98% of people covered by private health insurance. Private health insurers
provide benefits for over 14.7 million Australians.


Introduction
Private health insurance and the private health system it supports played a critical role in Australia's
response to COVID-19. From the moment COVID-19 arrived in Australia and governments started
restricting people's movements, health funds prioritised their members' health and wellbeing by:

    •   Providing hardship assistance to people who could not afford premiums due to job losses,
        under-employment and sickness from COVID-19, so they could maintain insurance.
    •   Facilitating new ways for members to receive vital healthcare such as psychology and
        physiotherapy via telehealth so they could manage their health at home.
    •   Covering all members for in-hospital treatment due to COVID-19 and helping members
        access emergency dental procedures.
    •   Committing to return any profits from lower claims to members via deferred premiums and
        'cash backs' among other methods.

Consumers have clearly valued the support of health funds during the pandemic. Since 2020, more
than one million Australians have joined a health fund to help them access healthcare where and
when they need it. As of December 2023, 14.7 million Australians have some form of health cover -
55% of the population. This continues to take pressure off our public health system as it recovers
from the pandemic and catches up on delayed and deferred healthcare, especially elective surgery.


Provision of health services
Australia's health system would have collapsed without the support of health funds and the private
health system during every stage of the pandemic. Our private system provided surge capacity
during spikes in demand for acute care, it provided 'business as usual' healthcare such as maternity
services, and it has absorbed a significant amount of the pent-up demand for surgery and mental
health care partly stemming from delayed care and distress during lockdowns.

Since the beginning of the pandemic, health funds have paid more than $285 million in benefits for
31,319 members with COVID-19 to receive hospital treatment. During the same period, health funds
paid $25 million in benefits for 2,696 members with Long COVID receiving hospital care. Most of this
care occurred during 2022 and 2023. See graph below.




                                                 C O V ID-19 Response Inquiry
                                    Private Healthcare Australia Submission
                                                               December 2023
                                                                     2 | Page
                                                 Confirmed COVID-19 hospital cases funded by Private Health Insurance                   =

               Zoom   6m   YTD   1y   2y   All                                                                          Jan 2020 - Nov 2023
         800



         700




    3 500
    2
    &
    vt

    o
    I
    E




Of the patients who used their private health insurance while in hospital with COVID-19:

    •                 The average age was 69.
    •                 The average length of stay was 11.6 days.
    •                 771 or 2.5% were experiencing pregnancy complications due to COVID-19.
    •          494 or 1.6% received intensive care unit treatment, including 155 (0.5%) who required
               continuous ventilation.
    •                 3,538 or 11% contracted COVID-19 while in hospital, prolonging their hospital stay.
    •                 27% were "high claims" where the cost of their care exceeded $10,000.

Most of these people (48.8%) received care in New South Wales, followed by Queensland (19.7%),
Victoria (19.2%), South Australia (6.1%), Western Australia (4.3%), Tasmania (1%), Australian Capital
Territory (0.5%) and Northern Territory (0.2%).

As Australia's public health system continues to recover from the challenges of the pandemic, health
funds are supporting millions of Australians to receive care in the private system, taking pressure off
public hospitals. In 2022-23, private health insurance paid for two out of three elective surgery
procedures across Australia, including 57% of joint replacements. It also paid for 55% of hospital
admissions for mental health care and 76% of rehabilitation admissions.


Commitment not to profit from the pandemic
In March 2020 it became clear that restrictions on people's movements and the preservation of the
health system for potential spikes in acute demand would cause health insurance claims to decrease
for an uncertain period of time. This prompted health funds to make a public commitment to
prioritise their members' interests above all else with a public promise to return all savings to
consumers.

In June 2020, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority also issued guidance to insurers on
calculating their Deferred Claims Liability to ensure funds would have adequate capital to meet the
costs of services not performed due to restrictions but expected to occur later.

In December 2023, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission confirmed that health
funds had returned $3.5 billion in funds to consumers up to 30 June 2023 and that they planned to
return another $840 million in permanent claims savings to members during 2023-24.
                                                                             COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                                Private Healthcare Australia Submission
                                                                                         December 2023
                                                                                               3 | Page
In its Report to the Australian Senate, the ACCC noted that, "when including these planned
givebacks, the combined figure for all insurer givebacks totals over $4.3 billion, which exceeds the
insurers' combined assessed permanent claims savings of around $4.1 billion".

Health funds have provided their givebacks in different ways, including direct payments or
"cashbacks" to members, premium relief such as deferred premium rises, hardship measures, and
some coverage extensions for members.


Conclusion
Australian health funds played an essential role in helping millions of Australians stay well and access
vital healthcare during the pandemic, and the private health system took pressure off the public
system, freeing it up for those who needed it most. The private health insurance sector's public
commitment not to profit from the pandemic was unparallelled in Australia and demonstrates a
genuine desire to prioritise members' health over profits in the most uncertain of times. Health
funds should be included in all future pandemic planning activities to ensure a smooth coordinated
approach across Australia's public-private health system. When Australia inevitably faces another
pandemic, Australian governments can rely on health funds to work with them to act swiftly in the
national interest.




                                                 COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                    Private Healthcare Australia Submission
                                                             December 2023
                                                                   4 | Page
