To whom it may concern,

The covid response undertaken by the Australian government regarding covid injections
violated human rights. It shouldn’t need to be mentioned that it is illegal, unethical and immoral
to coerce people to take pharmaceuticals. In this case, the pharmaceuticals were fraudulently
advertised to prevent transmission and the coercion included livelihood destroying punishments
and egregious social segregation.

Pfizer is currently being sued for the very reason many people refused covid injections, in that,
they were never even tested to prevent transmission:
https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/news/releases/attorney-general-ken-paxton-sues-pfizer-
misrepresenting-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy-and-conspiring.

The media and politicians continually lied about this fact to coerce people to get the injections,
eroding trust in the government, the media and the medical industry at large. As admitted by
Scott Morrison, covid deaths were exaggerated in media reports via compelling people to
believe deaths were largely ‘from’ covid rather than ‘with’ a positive test:
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2022/may/18/pm-dismisses-need-for-more-
measures-to-limit-covid-deaths-suggests-australians-dying-with-not-of-the-virus

This constant and unnecessary fear mongering was an absolute disgrace of leadership. True
leaders encourage calm, not hysterical panic as seen for more than 3 years in Australia. The
draconian measures that followed were largely watched with horror by the UK and the USA,
where such tyrannical restrictions were not enforced. Combined with the lies told to push the
covid injections, Australia sank to levels of human rights violations and tyranny none of us have
ever experienced.

Personally, I’ve received all normal vaccines throughout 48 years of life. I had covid and
therefore decided not to get the very temporary covid injections in favour of natural immunity,
which is now, and has for a long time, been proven to be as effective if not more so:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMClO198735/ . It’s absurd and strange that it was
ever presumed otherwise.

Regardless, I experienced mental and emotional trauma via social segregation and the need to
show vaccine passes in OLD from the 17th of December 2021. The experience was mortifying
for myself and 1000s of others, many of whom lost jobs and livelihoods, as you are well aware,
simply for exercising the right to say NO to a medical intervention. In this case also, one with
proven potential risks. The vilification in the media, including advice to avoid inviting covid
unvaccinated family to Christmas, was among the most inhumane things I’ve seen in this
country.

Retractions, corrections and apologies for the above are crucial. The human right of bodily
autonomy must never again be trampled in a free society, for any reason.
