                &
                        APIA
                        AUSTRALIAN PROFESSIONAL
                        TEACHERS ASSOCIATION




    APIA response to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19
                        Response Inquiry


The Australian Professional Teachers Association (APTA) welcomes the opportunity
to provide a response to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response
Inquiry. We have responded to ‘Support for industry and businesses’ in terms of
education and schools. The Australian Professional Teachers Association is a
federation of state and territory joint councils representing teacher associations.
These professional teaching associations represent a network of up to 200,000
teachers from government and non-government schools, early childhood services,
universities, technical and further education centres. The vision of APTA is to provide
national leadership that supports and advances the teaching profession. Our
strengths as an organisation lie in our ability to directly represent the experiences of
practicing classroom teachers across Australia, and in our long and continuous
history of supporting teachers to improve the quality of education in Australia. We
are a voice for teachers and an effective conduit between decision-making bodies
and the classroom.

Contact:

Cheryl Brennan
President, Australian Professional Teachers Association
Website: www.apta.edu.au
Email:
15 December 2023




                                                                              1 | Page
APIA’S Response to ‘Support for industry and businesses’
COVID-19 certainly had an unprecedented impact on education. Our students, teachers
and parents had to embrace the brave new world of online learning. What these confronting
times demonstrated was the dedication and agility of teachers who had to learn new
technologies and shift pedagogic practices to ensure that their students did not miss out.

Lessons learned in the classroom
What became evident following the return to ‘normal’ schooling was that teachers grew
from their experiences and applied the great lessons learned to the classroom. The
adoption of new technologies by most of the teaching profession has presented great
opportunities for innovation and transformation. The Australian Independent Schools NSW
asserted that ‘COVID-19 presents the perfect opportunity for schools to think, act, reflect,
evaluate and celebrate successes; to identify next steps and to sustain effective new ways
of being and doing’.

According to the 2018 OECD Teaching and Learning International Survey, most teachers
are open to innovation and report that they thrive on developing new ways of practising.
The Education Endowment Foundation (2020) concluded that many students became more
independent and self-regulated learners, especially when they were required to reflect on
what they had learned. Melbourne University researcher Dulfer (2020) asserted that online
learning empowered students to have greater agency with more control and input into their
education. The NSW English Teachers Association conducted a survey of members in May
2020. Participants stated that they would be using the new technologies in their classrooms
for collaboration and student feedback. Many noted that a positive byproduct of students
being at home and learning was that many students found the time to pause, revise, rewind
literally and reflect. Teachers were using a range of digital tools to test for understanding,
such as Quizzes, Kahoot, Exit tickets and videos to flip the learning. Many teachers used
Screencast and ClickView to caption videos so they could support their students to
understand and apply concepts.

Association members reported that greater collaboration was evident in the online
environment, regardless of the digital platform. Students enjoyed using breakout rooms in
Zoom and co-authoring essays, study notes and presentations in Teams or Google Docs.
Teachers reported that they worked more collaboratively together, creating resources and
stepping in to take an online class when their colleague was unwell. Furthermore, many
schools stepped up and rolled out outstanding professional learning in a very short period.
Instructional videos and handbooks were rapidly created to enable teachers to upskill.

Thus, post COVID-19, schools are now more willing to adopt innovative technologies in the
classroom and to provide online resources to students. If there were to be another
pandemic, Australian teachers are more than ready to respond.

The role of Professional Teaching Associations
Professional teaching associations played a very valuable role in providing support during
online learning. They provided in States and Territories, rich and varied professional
learning online. The association’s members quickly adapted their professional learning
resources into accessible online courses. Many associations provided these to their
members free of charge. The skill, agility and generosity of teaching associations was
evident. Furthermore, many associations are run solely by volunteers so teachers who were
already stretched by having to create new resources for an online environment were
committed to supporting their colleagues.

Three key lessons were learned by associations: the importance of collaboration, the
generosity of teachers and how technology could be used to deliver quality professional
learning. The English Teachers Association NSW ran a three day online international

                                                                                     2 | Page
conference in July 2020 to members across the world. The presentations were a mixture of
real time Zoom presentations and recorded sessions. This innovative approach was
mirrored across the country by other associations. Teachers in remote regional areas were
provided with online professional learning and access to teaching resources. Student Days
run by associations prior to 2020, were offered successfully online to hundreds of students.

These lessons have shaped the way that teaching associations operate today. They are
offering a blend of online and face-to-face professional learning in states and territories.
They now have a raft of valuable professional learning resources that can be readily
accessed. Associations in a range of subjects are working together to support each other.

The challenging lessons
On the flip side, online learning exposed more than ever the inequity and rural remote gap
where many students did not have access to technology or good internet coverage. Many
families only had one computer in their homes, and this was needed by one or both parents
for work. The internet coverage was a major issue for remote rural families across the
country. The English Teachers Association 2020 survey revealed that many participants
believed that the huge inequity between rural communities and metropolitan counterparts
was even more apparent. Many students chose not to engage with online learning. This
was reported by several member associations. Members reported that many students now
have gaps in their learning; especially in states where the lockdown periods were lengthy.

The lesson learned is that all Australian students should have equal access to technology
and have better internet coverage.

Concluding remarks
Face-to-face teaching will always be preferred as people are relational. We need human
connections. The value of a classroom teacher and physical presence in a classroom is
irreplaceable. What is evident is that our teachers who have proven during these difficult
times that they are resilient, agile and innovative will take what they have learned and add it
to their pedagogic arsenal.

Professional teaching associations have learned that they can be adaptive and agile. They
have realised the important supportive role they play, not just in professional learning but in
mentoring and supporting teachers in remoted rural areas. Although teaching associations
were outstanding during COVID-19, providing support for teachers did stretch the
volunteers. Providing greater funding support to APTA would have enabled APTA to provide
greater services in support of the teaching profession, in alignment with the goals of the
National Teacher Workforce Action Plan. APTA recommends that greater funding be
provided to APTA to support teachers and advance specialist expertise in the profession,
which could be “scaled up” in the event of a future pandemic to improve the resiliency of the
profession.
References
         AISNSW (2020). Obstacle or Opportunity: Defining Your School's New Normal. Retrieved
from https://www. aisnsw.edu.au/newsroom?Articleld=f38df4ec-a7eb4f79-b103-3a64333ae028
         OECD. (2018) TALIS 2018 Results (Volume II): Teachers and School Leaders as Valued
Professionals. Retrieved from http://www.oecd.org/education/ talis-2018-results-volume-ii-19cf08df-
en.htm.
         Dulfer, N. (2020). Assisting teachers in their COVID-19 response: How this model framework
can help reshape thinking around digital teaching and learning. Melbourne University. Retrieved from
https://education.unimelb.edu.au/news-and-events/ news/2020/assisting-teachers-in-their-covid-19-
response-how-this-model-framework-can-helpreshape-thinking-around-digital-teaching-andlearning.
         Education Endowment Foundation. (2020) Remote Learning: Rapid evidence assessment.
London: Education Endowment Foundation. Retrieved from

                                                                                          3 | Page
https://educationendowmentfoundation.org.uk/ public/files/Remote_Learning_Rapid_Evidence
Assessment.pdf.




                                                                                     4 I
