To Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry


I am an Australian. I am a mother and a grandmother. I work as a Student Support Worker
and my partner has his own small business in the building industry.


I found it grossly unethical that a medical product/vaccine was pushed and coerced onto the
population. The belittling and ridicule of those who questioned or chose not to take the
Covid-19 vaccines was disgraceful and wrong.
Every person’s individual medical choice for themselves or for their child needs to be
honoured and respected.


People’s freedom to visit loved ones and friends should never again be restricted. It must
remain the personal choice of the individual people themselves whether they want to have
contact with other people or not.
Aged care facilities are overstepping their role when they dictate that visitors must have
particular vaccinations in order to visit their loved ones who are in care.


Australia is ONE country and State borders should not be closed.




People’s employment should never again be declined or refused to them because of their
personal medical choice. All people who have lost their job because of vaccine mandates
need to be offered their job back to them.
There needs to be protections put into place to protect employee’s individual medical history
and their medical choices as private to them. It is not the business of their employer.


Mask Mandates infringed on people’s ability to breathe freely without obstruction, and also
led to feelings of anxiety for many people. Breathing freely is a basic human right and must
be respected.


Citizens Rights must never again be overshadowed by emergency measures. The
overreach of both Federal and State Governments led to an abuse of our human rights.
Doctors, Nurses and Allied health professionals have lost their jobs because they gave their
educated medical opinions to their patients regarding the new gene based covid
injections/vaccines. Other health professionals lost their job because of prescribing
Ivermectin, or for writing out exemptions for their patients. These health professionals need
to be reinstated. The practice of giving Informed Consent is essential for the Doctor/Patient
relationship. Health Professionals need to be allowed to use their knowledge to advise their
patients without reprimand.


There were Contracts made with Vaccine Companies which the public do not have access
to. These contracts need to be made accessible to the Australian people.


We must never give our decision making over to an outside International Organisation, such
as the World Health Organization. It is important that the Australian people make our own
decisions for our own country and our own people.


Regards,
