 Covid-19 Response Inquiry
 Submission
                                                       Oscar Delaney, 15/12/23
 I am a recent graduate of the University of Queensland with a Bachelor of Science
 (Honours) majoring in biology. Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this
 important inquiry.

 I have just returned from the Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) meeting held in
 Geneva 4th-13th December, where I was part of the NTI|Bio Youth Delegation. At
 those meetings, I was reminded how we need to plan for not just future zoonosis
 events, but also the possibility of deliberate biological attacks by state or non-state
 actors. The terms of reference state that the inquiry will present “recommendations
 to improve response measures in the event of future pandemics”. However,
 prevention is better than cure, and so the best way to respond to future pandemics is
 to make them not happen in the first place. One of the specific areas of review is
 how to target responses to the needs of vulnerable populations - here too the best
 solution is to avoid a future pandemic altogether.

 Therefore, the focus of my brief allotted three pages will be on reducing the
 probability of another pandemic occurring. My research in biosecurity and pandemic
 preparedness focuses especially on DNA synthesis security, so I will dwell on that.

 DNA synthesis refers to a set of rapidly improving technologies that ‘print’ custom
 DNA sequences based on a template computer file of A’s, O’s, G’s and T’s.

 The ongoing democratization of DNA synthesis technology as costs fall is
 significantly lowering the barrier to creating dangerous biological agents. The
 sequence information for numerous dangerous pathogens and toxins is readily
 available in the public domain, so plausibly relatively unsophisticated actors could
 download a pathogen’s genome, order it in pieces from multiple DNA providers,
 assemble the genome, boot up the pathogen, and deploy it as a bioweapon.


Malicious
Actor
                        Dangerous                   weapon-                   Biological
                        DNA                         isation                   catastrophe
Sequence
information
The consequences of misuse could be catastrophic, potentially leading to events
surpassing the severity of natural pandemics like COVID-19 if a malicious actor
designs a bioweapon that combines the lethality of Ebola and the transmissibility of
measles. This scenario underscores the need for effective governance of the digital-
to-physical interface of DNA synthesis.

A possible approach to regulating DNA synthesis is to ensure only certain trusted
actors can place orders. While this ‘customer screening’ has some valuable role to
play, by itself it is insufficient as malicious actors may be part of a legitimate research
institute, or could steal the digital identity of someone who is. Therefore it is also
important to screen the DNA sequences themselves that are ordered.

Twenty-five DNA synthesis companies are part of the International Gene Synthesis
Consortium (IGSC) and have agreed to meet minimum screening standards to
prevent potentially dangerous DNA from being ordered by an unaccredited customer.
However, this leaves at least 30 DNA synthesis companies that do not have any
public screening protocols. Thus, it remains disconcertingly easy for malicious actors
to order from non-screening companies.

President Biden’s recent Executive Order on Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Artificial
Intelligence means the US will become the first country in the world to legally require
some DNA orders to be screened. However, the national and international regulatory
environment remains very weak overall. The Australia Group laudably regulates
some exports of DNA synthesis equipment, however most orders of DNA molecules
themselves are not checked at international borders.

Currently, DNA synthesis governance relies predominantly on companies’ voluntary
compliance with screening recommendations. This approach is far from optimal.
Specifically, important policy recommendations include:

   1. Minimum screening standards for all synthetic DNA providers are crucial.
      This would ensure that all companies adhere to a baseline of biosecurity
      checks, significantly reducing the risk of dangerous sequences successfully
      being ordered. To enforce this, a governmental or intergovernmental agency
      could be tasked with periodically sending deliberately dangerous orders to
      each synthesis company to check it is indeed blocked. The DNA synthesis
      industry in Australia is currently nascent, but we should aim to keep
      regulations ahead of technology.
   2. Government Funded Research: as well as the above supply-side
      intervention on DNA companies, Australia should also consider a demand­
      side intervention whereby all researchers receiving government grants must
      only order DNA from biosecurity-compliant companies (domestic or
      international). This would cause compliant companies to receive a higher
      market share of DNA orders, encouraging more companies to screen
      effectively.
   3. Developing a cryptographically secure database of hazardous sequences
      would provide a robust method for screening DNA orders. This database,
      established through international consensus, would allow companies to
      screen orders without direct access to sensitive sequence data. Such a
      system would protect against the dissemination of high-risk sequences while
      maintaining confidentiality. If set up effectively, this could also provide a cheap
      or free centralised system for screening, so that DNA synthesis startups are
      not overburdened with requiring their own bioinformatics and biosecurity team
      to analyse each order.

One of the best ways to manage future pandemics is to prevent them from arising at
all, and an important though neglected class of possible sources of pandemics is
rogue actors using advances in synthetic biology to create and release a bioweapon.
Effective regulation of synthetic DNA should safeguard Australia against this risk,
without stifling biomedical research and innovation.

Feel free to contact me on                         to discuss matters arising from this
submission.


Acknowledgements and References
I thank             fortheir invaluable collaboration on this research, and
                                   and                                      for usefu
advice and mentorship on this project. For a fuller version of this research, with
complete referencing, see our paper:

Palya, H., Delaney, O. Deploying Digital Detection of Dangerous NA. (2023).
Journal of Science Policy and Governance. https://doi.Org/10.38126/JSPG210306

An abridged reference list with the most important sources is:

   •      Department of Health and Human Services. 2022. Screening Framework
          Guidance for Providers and Users of Synthetic Oligonucleotides.
   •      Diggans, James, and Emily Leproust. 2019. "Next Steps for Access to Safe,
          Secure DNA Synthesis." Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology 7.
   •      Gretton, Dana, Erika A. eBenedictis, Andrew B. Liu, Andrew C. Yao, and
          Kevin M. Esvelt. n.d. "Random adversarial threshold search enables specific,
          secure, and automated DNA synthesis screening." preprint.
   •      Nuclear Threat Initiative, and World Economic Forum. 2020. Biosecurity
          Innovation and Risk Reduction: A Global Framework for Accessible, Safe and
          Secure DNA Synthesis. (Geneva).
   •      Williams, Bridget and Rowan Kane. 2023. “Preventing the Misuse of DNA
          Synthesis”. Institute for Progress.
