Submission to Covid-19 Response Inquiry

I am an

The Australian Government's response to the Covid-19 pandemic was wrong, and there is no
evidence that it saved a single life.

It was such an inexcusable response, that I believe this Inquiry will not do it justice, as it does not
allow for investigation into the measures taken by the States. There needs to be a full Royal
Commission, and those responsible need to be held to account.

Rather than Australia's pre-covid pandemic plan, the government decided, in the heat of the
moment, to throw all those measured, scientifically proven ideas out the window and, instead,
imitate the response of Communist China, using nothing but flawed modelling predictions to
determine the fate of Australians.

Just like the actions of Communist China, the Australian government's response was fuelled by fear
and propaganda and was shrouded in secrecy. Why did the government try to motivate Australians
with fear rather than reassurance and resilience? Why was the media all saying the same thing,
calling anyone who had a different opinion to the government's official narrative (even when they
were an expert) a "conspiracy theorist" or a "granny killer"? Why were possible safe alternative
treatments, like ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine banned and demonized? Why were the minutes
of the National Cabinet Meetings between the Prime Minister and the State Premiers kept secret?
Why were the contract dealings between the Australian government and the vaccine manufacturers
kept secret? Why were we told that healthcare workers were overwhelmed, and hospitals filled,
scaring people away from seeking genuinely needed medical attention, when most hospitals were
actually empty?

Our country was turned into a brutal police state (eg. shooting rubber bullets at protesters, arresting
pregnant women, throwing unmasked citizens to the ground), soiling our international reputation,
and dividing our once united nation.

While, the Federal Government will claim that these heavy-handed approaches were the work of the
States, it does not exonerate them. Legislation could have been passed at the Federal level,
protecting citizens from the discrimination and destruction of vaccine mandates, or to stop the
States from dividing the nation into separate colonies, with locked borders.

While there is no evidence of the governments' lock-downs, social distancing, and excessive
spending saving a single life, there is plenty of evidence of the governments' response causing
increased debt, ruined economic outlook, destroyed businesses, lost jobs and careers, uneducated
and unsocialised children, suicidal youth, increased crime, human rights violations, coerced medical
treatments, censorship of different opinions, medical apartheid, and increased division. And despite
the high vaccination rate (due to the abandonment of informed consent), Australians still caught
covid, passed covid on, and died from covid, not even mentioning the injuries acquired from the
vaccination itself, meaning the other measures (including the 8 billion dollars for vaccines) were a
complete ruinous waste.

Solution - if another pandemic arrives, there should no censorship of different ideas, no banning of
alternative treatments, no lock-downs or isolation or mandates of any kind, and there should be
more care and protection offered to the vulnerable population, extra focus on maintaining and
increasing natural immune function and good health through healthy diet, fitness, fresh air and
sunlight, and otherwise, it should stay as "business as usual" for Australians.
The government failed us. Don't let them do it again.
