Submission to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry
    December 2023

    Dr Sarah Spencer-Matthews




   I am submitting this response as an individual as I strongly believe a broader enquiry, including the
   responses of the States, is essential so that we (normal everyday Australians) but in particular, the
   Australian and State Governments and associated bureaucrats, learn from what was done to us over
   the 'pandemic' years to better prepare for the future 'scares'.

   This is in light of the poor management of the covid responses thus far by the government.

    My submission to the enquiry is detailed below and addresses the terms of reference provided:

    Governance - including roles and responsibilities:

       1.       Decision-Making Processes:

               •    An inquiry needs to take place about the processes and mechanisms that took place
                    regarding health decisions. Clearly many of the health decisions by government and
                    senior bureaucrats were vastly wrong and an incredible overreach of powers not to
                    mention the abuse of our bodily autonomy and intelligence.

               •    For example, how were decisions made about who got the 'vaccines'; mandates
                    (coercion); PCR tests; why were vaccines warranted and recommended in various
                    age groups; why were 'vaccines' forced (heavily pressured) on the population when
                    they were, and still remain, in 'clinical' trial; where is the science in relation to the
                    wearing of mask rules; quarantine rules; border restrictions; social distancing and
                    lockdowns etc. What 'science' did the Government and bureaucrats use as clear
                    evidence to take these decisions? Why wasn't this 'science' shared with anyone in
                    the public that was interested/requested this basic information?

               •    Why was there so much secrecy, sophistry, censorship, and misinformation (from the
                    government, bureaucrats, and media). This lack of transparency (which in part
                    continues today) has caused a lot of angst, unrest, and distrust. We live in a
                    democratic country and many people were 'shut down' because of their opinion and
                    respectful questioning. There were pleas for information, transparency, and scientific
                    evidence regarding the governmental hard hitting 'policies'/ decisions. But when the
                    average person raised their concerns, they were either ridiculed, shut down or
                    threatened with sanctions. All people were asking for was information so that they
                    could make an informed decision on many of the sanctions imposed, but sadly we
                    were not allowed to do this. This needs to be investigated as a matter of urgency.

       2.      Public Health Expertise:

               •    Who were the so called 'health experts' that were informing government and
                    bureaucrats? Why did they not provide evidence that the public was requesting?
                    Why did they not change or update their recommendations when information came
                    to pass? For example, the TGA knew in February 2021 that the 'vaccines' were not

                                                                                                         1 of 3
                safe nor effective and yet the 'vaccines' were, and continue to be, pushed onto the
                unwary public. In addition, from early 2020 there were other qualified and well
                experienced health professionals (with actual hands-on experience with covid
                patients) who were questioning the government agenda/decisions worldwide as well
                as in Australia. Why were these professionals censored, not promoted, and not taken
                seriously? The government chose to ignore and blindly continued with their
                decisions based on unscientific modelling (proven early in the 'pandemic' to be
                wildly incorrect - e.g.^^^^^^inaccurate modelling in early 2020 predicted an IFR
                of 3% where we knew early on (not long after the Diamond Princess situation) that
                the actual IFR was closer to .003% - and even that was overestimated due to
                mislabelling of cases and an unreliable PCR test.

            •   Please provide the science for your decisions - starting from the beginning of the
                'pandemic' and continuing into today.

   3.       Communication Strategies:

            •   Why were there and continues to be no communication from government or media
                comparing the rate of infection, deaths, and side effects between the 'unvaccinated'
                and the 'vaccinated'? This data is available, but you have chosen not to 'run' it nor
                make it public.

            •   Why were health professionals censored with threat of deregistration if they asked
                questions re the health narrative!

   4.       Accountability Measures:

            •   When are the government, bureaucrats and media going to be made accountable for
                their misinformation and overreach? I do realise that this inquiry is Federally based
                however it MUST be expanded to include State level inquiries Australia wide.

Key health response measures:

            •   Why did the government look at 'cases' rather than 'deaths' as their measure of the
                'pandemic'? This led to panic based on a 'casedemic' rather than a 'pandemic'. This is
                particularly alarming given that many people who were healthy with no symptoms
                were labelled incorrectly as covid cases.
            •   Why are 'vaccines' still being promoted given they are neither 'safe' or 'effective'.
                Where is your evidence to justify continued promotion? Have you read the latest
                scientific research - you certainly should have. If you haven't and claim that you do
                not have this scientific research, then please contact me and I would be happy to
                share it with you.

Broader health supports for people impacted.

   •    There is so much that needs investigating under these criteria however I will list just four
        which need addressing urgently: Firstly, why are the 'unvaccinated' still not allowed an organ
        transplant? Secondly why does the blood bank not differentiate between 'unvaccinated' and
        'vaccinated' blood? The blood bank knows who has received the 'vaccination' - why aren't
        hospital patients who remain 'unvaccinated' allowed to choose to receive 'unvaccinated'
        blood if they require it? Thirdly, why isn't there an inquiry into the sudden rise in excess
        deaths (non-covid related). If we were subjected to a daily count of covid cases during the
        'pandemic' why are the alarming increases in non-explained excess deaths not being
        reported and investigated? Fourthly, why were Psychologist silenced by the APHRA
        statement - psychologists in particular should be allowed to help understand situations-
                                                                                                 2 of 3
        this is necessary through questioning and understanding situations. The silencing of
        Psychologists is shameful.

International policies to support Australians.

    •   Why did we follow generic WHO recommendations when we are very different to many high-
        density countries around the world? We can not have a 'one solution fits all' to a health crisis
        (similarly health care should always be individually based and not 'consensus medicine').
    •   Why did no one in authority question why the WHO changed the definition of many terms
        including the definition of the word 'pandemic' - and why did WHO radically and completely
        change their pandemic response protocols between 2019 and 2020?

Support for industry and business

    •   Many small businesses were not adequately supported or compensated during the
        overreach in the 'pandemic' period. This is especially true for 'unvaccinated' health
        professionals who were not allowed to run their business according to protocol. Government
        overreach caused much distress - both emotionally and financially.

Financial support for individuals

    •   Why wasn't financial support given fairly across the population. Many people we know
        benefited greatly and unfairly financially for government handouts. What is the rationale
        regarding the handouts? For example, why did the unemployed get financials bonuses when
        their cost of living did not change (they did not lose their job nor did their costs go up).
        However, the self-employed, small businesses and individual health practitioners suffered
        greatly financially (and emotionally).

Community supports.

    •   Why was community support mainly only 'open' to the 'vaccinated'. The 'unvaccinated' were
        harassed, bullied, and treated like lepers. They were not allowed to participate in many social
        activities and were even restricted to where they could get a cup of coffee etc.

Mechanisms to better target further responses to needs of particular populations

    •   Due to the page limitation you have put on our submissions I have not been able to expand
        on many points nor have I put in any supporting documents etc.
    •   However, I believe I do not need to put in any supporting documents as YOU should already
        have the growing and updated research (if you are doing your job correctly).
    •   Much of this data has been available to anyone since early-mid 2020 - and it has been
        growing.
    •   If, however you DON'T have this evidence then I am more than happy to share it with you -
        just reach out to me - or do a quick search of research and independent media outlets (sadly
        many of the mainstream media and data outlets are still heavily censored and restricted).
         Likewise, if you would like me to put you in touch with some scientists and medical experts
        who have researched and experienced the real covid situation then please contact me.



Sincerely,

Dr Sarah Spencer-Matthews




                                                                                                  3 of 3
