         SUBMISSION TO COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY
                           Prepared by Dr Terry Bellair
                                30 November 2023


My name is (Dr) John Terence (Terry) Bellair, principal of Environmental Science
Associates.

I received my PhD (biochemistry) in 1965 and was involved in biomedical research
and teaching in Australia and the USA for the next 7 years. I commenced work as an
environmental science consultant in 1973 and am now transitioning to retirement.
Since the late-1970s, my consulting career has focussed on air quality management. I
was the principal author of the Victorian EPA’s original Air Policy, have presented
expert evidence at well over 200 tribunal and court hearings, and have been appointed
to about 30 planning panels and ministerial advisory committees.

My submission summarises the failure of some key pandemic responses to take
account of basic scientific principles.

The myth that exhaled COVID-19 viruses will “fall to the floor within 1.5m”
This myth was promulgated by the WHO and apparently adopted uncritically by
many leading public health practitioners, including the eminent immunologist
                            led to an initial belief that the main mode of transmission
was via contaminated surfaces and advice that disinfecting surfaces and maintaining a
separation distance of 1.5m would provide a significant reduction in the risk of
contracting COVID-19. Had these public health experts bothered to seek advice from
air quality specialists, they would have learned that aerosols with aerodynamic
diameters below 10 microns remain suspended for prolonged periods and can be
transported significant distances by natural and/or mechanically-induced air
movements.

At least some hotels were unsuitable for quarantining COVID-19 cases
Ventilation issues do not appear to have been considered (adequately or at all) in
selecting hotels for quarantining potential COVID-19 cases. This failure resulted in a
number of situations where the virus was transmitted from infectious individuals to
occupants of other rooms and staff. Advice should have been sought from mechanical
engineers on the adequacy of ventilation systems to minimise the risk of viral
aerosols dispersing from individual rooms into corridors (and nearby rooms) when
doors are opened (and the risk of them being distributed more widely throughout the
hotels by recycling ventilation air).

Monitoring CO2 within indoor areas was insufficiently promoted
Measuring CO2 concentrations within indoor areas can provide a useful indication of
the risk of transmission of respiratory viruses, because it provides an integrated
measure of the density of people, their level of physical activity and air-exchange
rates. The use of CO2 analysers should have been widely promoted, along with CO2
concentration guidelines above which the number of people should be reduced and/or
air-exchange rates increased. CO2 measurements would also assist in optimising the
placement of air filters within rooms. The adoption CO2 monitoring with appropriate
guidelines should have been a “no brainer” for many indoor settings.


                                                                                     1
The overall thrust of my submission is that: (1) many senior members of the medical
profession were “blinkered” when providing advice to government on appropriate
responses to the COVID-19 pandemic; and (2) planning for future pandemics should
ensure advice is sought from experts in relevant scientific disciplines.

                                      -oOo-




                                                                                 2
