08:19 9                       O•         92% ■

op treat..   /'       human ri..   ✓' New

 =                Q                <5>     x/


 "I'm still on a COVID lockdown since
 March of 2020 in Thailand, where I
 was in transit from Europe to my
 home in Australia. The
                 from the embassy in
 Bangkok did not allow me to fly back
 home to Australia under the pretext
 that I had refused a medical
 intervention in my body they imposed
 on me.
 As I'm in Thailand, I have no access
 to any of my documents that are in
 Australia, other than my travel
 documents.
 At the beginning of 2023,1 received a
 letter entitling me to Human Rights
 asylum seeker status (file attached).
 However, I have never been
08:19 9                       O•         92% ■

op treat..   ✓'       human ri..   ✓' New

 =                B         zm     <5>     s/

 However, I have never been
 approached for help or advocacy
 regarding this letter.
 I have approached the Thai
 Immigration Department four times,
 requesting protection. Two times by
 letter, once through their website, and
 once in person. Only during the last
 attempt did I receive a response,
 directing me to go to Laos. I did not
 intend to break any immigration laws,
 I simply sought their protection. At
 the moment,


 Since Thailand is not a signatory of
 asylum seekers, I am considering
 writing a letter to the Cambodian
08:19                         O=    a 92% ■

op treat..   ✓'       human ri..   /* New

 =                B    irx   zti   <S>   y/

 attempt did I receive a response,
 directing me to go to Laos. I did not
 intend to break any immigration laws,
 I simply sought their protection. At
 the moment,


 Since Thailand is not a signatory of
 asylum seekers, I am considering
 writing a letter to the Cambodian
 embassy in Bangkok, although I'm
 not sure if it would be better or
 worse.
 Living in perpetual stress, anxiety,
 and feeling terrorized, I am restricted
 by the lockdown and facing financial
 difficulties and unhealthy living
 conditions."
                                                      Office of Ox? Natotvi Hcrn^ R^its Ccrrmescxi d Tbcjiand.
                                                      Ratthaprasasanabhakti Building,
                                                      120 Chaengwattana Road. Laksi District.
                                                      Bangkok 10210.

                                             q May B.E. 2566 (2023)




                Reference is made to your petition to the National Human Rights Commission of

 Thailand (NHRCT) dated 21 Fetxuaiy 2023 stating that you are a foreigner, currently resided in Pratum

 Ihani province. Since the situation of COVID-19. you were afraid to travel back to the Commonwealth

 of Australia. Therefore, you are seeking for support as an asylum seeker.


                The Office of the NHRC T would like to inform you that the NHRCT considered

 the petition and resolved to accept the matter whereby the NHRCT already informed you of

contacting channel with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in

Thailand. This is in accordance with Article 18/1 of the Regulation of the National Human Rights

Commission on Rules and Procedures for the Investigation of Human Rights Violation B.E. 2561

(2018) and its Amendment.


               Please be informed accordingly.


                                              Yours sincerely,
