I strongly and totally oppose the FORCED vaccination or any medication or
any form medical treatment mandate policy.

The politicians who governed the people of Australia and who were
responsible for allowing and standing by watching the tyranny of the
medical practice which imposed unfairly on the citizens of the county of
Australia, should be held accountable for the damage and hardship caused
on the families & marriages division and disruption, jobs loss, financial
hardship, distress, unfair dismissal, mental breakdown - to mention a few.

Most appalling was the way in which the Federal and all States governments
managed and executed their plan of action in name of controlling the virus
covid-19, without any regards for the individual’s respect and which was
inhuman and discriminative.
The aftermath effects as the result of the government’s restriction,
intimidation and coercion on people are still imprinted in the families, the
young children, the mentally handicapped and the frail elderly with long
lasting emotional scars.

The ripple effects that caused by the government’s mistake in handling the
matter that coupled with the lack of wisdom and mercy for the community at
large are still to be seen today in the rise in crime, an increase in suicide in
teenagers and young adults, some irreversible mental and psychological
breakdown, while the elderly were abandoned by their loved by force.

Not a single family escaped from this adverse effect of this very poorly, if
not totally arbitrary execution of the government in response to the covid
virus.

I myself have had the misfortune to experience my fair share of
discrimination. I was denied entry to th^mrsin^iome to visit
                             I visitedon a regular basis. For
^^^^^■beforeshe died, I used to visit her by watching her through the
glass window. Of course by then she no longer recognised me - but I will
always remember her face, and talking to her through the glass.

Not to mention the undue and unnecessary pressure and strain put on my
family due to forced vaccination. The constant propaganda of fear and
advertisement for vaccination on the television induced so much of fear,
confusion and division.

Government was selected in place to safeguard the safety and welfare of
people and to protect the freedom of citizen and not to coerce, threat, divide
and persecute.
People who governs should be held accountable for their actions and
behaviours to set precedence to avoid a repeated history.

May God have mercy on your soul and forgive you for all the wrong and
harm you have done to the people of Australia.
