Nty family's experience of the government with
media collaboration of the covid response was
life changing, and not in a good way. My
husband works at a hospital and was stood
down from a job of ■ years because of his
refusal to take an experimental procedure.
The government overeach into our lives both
at the federal and state level was
unbelievable. The lockdowns and use of
masks that are scientifically known not to stop
viruses was bad enough, but to lose your
livelihood and right to bodily autonomy should
be unthinkable in a democratic nation. We
lost over 50 grand in savings over that time
because of not being able to work due to
restrictions for unvaccinated people. We were
actively being discriminated against which
made the Government's workplace bullying
and anti-discrimination regulations a
complete joke. They either apply in every
circumstance or not at all. Not having a covid
vaccine made people a scapegoat for
government and the rest of the community by
the media, eg not having unvaxxed loved ones
over for Christmas was encouraged. After
being stood down for a year, my husband's
work sacked him a day after the state premier
announced mandates would be lifted and
45min before a generic email was sent
through to^^|staff saying mandates would
be lifted. Obviously punitive behaviour.


I request a Royal Commission be conducted
into all aspects of the covid response debacle:
1. Official state and federal government
misinformation and lies in the media
regarding the ability of vaccines to stop
transmission and infection, and the
perpetuation of workplace restrictions in the
face of scientific evidence proving the
vaccine's ineffectiveness in these areas.
Questions to be asked are why was a drug that
had not been robustly tested allowed to be
used without restriction and with no
consequences to the manufacturer? Why were
only certain vaccines permitted and not
reputable and arguably safer ones allowed -
there seems to be corruption in contracting of
and procurement of vaccines.
2. The abuse of state and federal emergency
legislation to enable governmental overeach
for extended periods of time.
3. The use of vaccine mandates to coerce the
public into taking an experimental procedure
for a virus that was only likely to kill 1 % of the
population. Consideration of the removal of
human and social rights and destruction of
livelihoods and financial and economic
security at a personal and national level for a
virus most would recover from was too extreme
a response and unsubstantiated.
4. Media censorship and bullying of people
who did not want to take the drug and
censorship of stories of people who have been
vaccine injured. The refusal of government
and relevant bureaucratic groups to
acknowledge and investigate covid vaccine
injury and excess deaths.
5. The control of doctors by AHPRA and ATAGI
so that only the governmental advice was
permitted to be issued to patients. The
inability to grant exemptions to the point that
even people highly at risk of clotting and other
life threatening side effects were forced to
have the covid vaccine by their own doctors.
