9th December 2023

To Whom it May Concern;

I am writing to you regarding the enquiry into Covid-19 and the effects of the vaccine mandates. I
am a mother of two children living in Perth, Western Australia. I would like to make some points
and suggestions regarding the pandemic.

•   The impact on schooling and children: It was well know statistically that the pandemic did not
    effect children and the death rate was close to Nil, only effecting those who were already ill of
    health. The impact of schools closing, parents having to home school their children and then
    having to vaccinate children to protect the elderly resulted in
        •           increased anxiety
        •           mental health issues
        •           stunt in learning
        •           unknown impact of MRNA vaccination on children in years to come.

Improvement suggestions: In the future, children should never be the victims to protect the
elderly. Children are the MOST vulnerable in our society and do not have a voice, they cannot
speak for themselves and it is an abuse of power to have them vaccinated when the virus would
not result in death or long term harm for the majority of the population.

•   The impact of vaccination in regards to death, heart issues and other health issues. We have
    had a number of family friends have blood clots, a death, increased health issue, shingles,
    repeats of the covid virus and depleted health after their vaccinations. My father was the only
    person in our famil^wh^wa^accinated and has deteriorated tremendously, recently being
    diagnosed with^^^^^^^^^^^B Please see a study on the effect of vaccinations below,
    that show only approximately 32% have not impact:

                                 Received: 17 July 2023
                                 DOI: 10.1111/601.14102

                                                                                                 Max Schmeling1
                                 LETTER TO THE EDITOR
                                                                                              Vibeke Manniche2
                                                                                                                            Wiley
                                                                                           Peter Riis Hansen3,4 ©

                                 Batch-dependent safety of the BNT162b2 mRNA COVID-19
                                 vaccine
                                                                                                                                                                 Wiley


                                                                                  Batch-dependent safety of the BNT162b2 mRNA COVID-19
                       Finally, after publication of our report, we have become   vaccine
                    aware of the first Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR)
                    for the BNT162b2 vaccine covering the period 19 Decem­
                    ber 2020 to 18 June 2021 that was submitted to the Euro­
                    pean Medicines Agency on 19 August 2021 by the market
                    authorization holder (BioNTech).11 This PSUR appears to
                                                                                             • 4.2% Doses
                    confirm a large variation in numbers of adverse events be­
                                                                                                EJ6796, EJ6797, EM0477, EJ6136, EJ6134, EK9788, EJ6789, EJ6790, EP9598
                    tween different BNT162b2 batches and batches with the
                    highest number of adverse events reported here were all
                    those represented by the blue ‘high SAE’ trendline in the
                    figure of our published study.111                                                                                                          63.7% Doses




Improvement suggestions: Governments need to take more responsibility in promoting immune
health and listening to doctors treating virus patients that are having success. Many doctors were
treating the elderly using therapeutics and methods that boosted the immune system such as
Vitamin D, Vitamin K, Vitamin C, Turmeric, Zinc, Ivermectin and more. These immune boosting
methods were not promoted and some even band to increase the roll out of MRNA vaccination.
 Not going into contracts with Pharmaceutical companies who have previously been fined for
false advertising and misconduct. Not signing up to contracts with Pharmaceutical companies
that will not take any responsibility for damage or loss of life with their product.
•   Media Censoring: During the pandemic, the media would only report on the urgency to be
    vaccinated and silence any objections to vaccination. There was coercion and manipulation in
    the public domain and through the media organised by the government departments to be
    vaccinated. I can remember hearing they were offering a lottery of $1M if you would go and
    get vaccinated during a particular time period! There was persecution toward the un­
    vaccinated in the form of loss of jobs, ridicule, unable to buy certain products with out a
    vaccination status. We were personally impacted in this way.

Improvement suggestions: More independent media and freedom of speech. Dis engage from
contracts with WHO when they want autonomy over decisions relating to full power during
emergency health crisis.

This is only the beginning of the impact on us and others during the pandemic. We would like to
see the laws changed regarding lock downs, mandates. It was ridiculous to hear the masks were
mandated when many well regarded surgeons said that they do not provide protection against air­
born virus’.

Thank you for the opportunity to express these concerns and make suggestions to handle the
pandemic better in the future.

Regards,

Juliette Smith
Western Australia
