               Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
  Dental Health Services Victoria welcomes the opportunity to respond to the Commonwealth
  Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry. Our submission will refer primarily to the item on:

       •   Key health response measures (for example across Covid-19 vaccinations and treatments,
           key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and
           public health messaging).

  What has been the impact on dental service disruption due to the Covid-19 pandemic?

  Essential oral healthcare is critical to support good oral health and prevent deterioration of oral
  conditions which can lead to serious health and wellbeing consequences. However essential oral
  healthcare is among the preventive health services which were severely disrupted by public health
  measures implemented in Australia, particularly in Victoria (Hopcraft and Farmer 2021), including
  the Victorian school dental program, Smile Squad.

  Various countries implemented 'lockdown' measures as part of the early Covid-19 pandemic
  response and this resulted in limiting health care services (Chiesa et al. 2021). For dentistry, there
  have been profound effects given that unlike most other primary healthcare services, a mask
  cannot be worn by patients during examination or treatment and dental services commonly
  produce aerosols (Nguyen et al. 2021), which have potential to create a high-risk environment for
  Covid-19 transmission.

  From DHSV's perspective, dental settings have generally taken more stringent standard precautions
  described in the Australian Guidelines for the Prevention and Control of Infection in Healthcare
  (National Health and Medical Research Council 2019). Accepted dental practice infection control
  guidelines have explicit reference to 'using personal protective barriers such as gloves, masks, eye
  protection and gowns' (Australian Dental Association 2015). i.e. the use of surgical face masks is
  considered routine for dental settings including undertaking non-aerosol generating procedures.

  What were the gaps in national leadership for oral health and future opportunities to enable
  pandemic resilience for essential oral healthcare?

  The absence of a Commonwealth Chief Oral Health Officer resulted in severely limited, critical,
  dental-specific expertise to inform a proportionate public health response for dental services. In
  most cases, oral healthcare was not even considered in public health advice and guidance at both
  national and state health department levels. Guidance that was developed was often not
  appropriate for the oral health sector. Limited understanding of the regulatory environment for
  dental settings created significant confusion and could have been improved by increased
  Commonwealth government leadership.

  The state and territory public dental programs provided key input along with the Australian Dental
  Association (ADA) in developing guidance during the early phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. The
  ADA guidance was adopted by the National Cabinet.




                                                                                       Dental Health Services Victoria
dental health                                                                                         ABN: 55 264 981 997

                                                                                     GRO Box 1273L Melbourne VIC 3001
                                                                                               Telephone 03 9341 1000
oral health for better health                                                                         www.dhsv.org.au
DHSV notes that not all types of dental services would be or should be considered essential, and
therefore, dental restrictions on clinical practice would be appropriate for certain procedures
particularly at the height of the pandemic. A global definition for essential oral healthcare is:

        'Essential oral health care covers the most prevalent oral health problems through an
        agreed set of safe, quality, and cost-effective interventions at the individual and community
        level to promote and protect oral health, as well as prevent and treat common oral
        diseases, including appropriate rehabilitative services, thereby maintaining health,
        productivity, and quality of life.' (Benzian et al. 2021)

To adequately prepare Australia for uninterrupted essential oral healthcare for future pandemics, it
is critical to have national oral health clinical leadership, that is the appointment of a
Commonwealth Chief Oral Health Officer (Nguyen et al. 2023).

DHSV's role and experience in the Covid-19 pandemic response

DHSV took a leadership and advisory role in driving the public dental sector's response to the
Covid-19 pandemic in Victoria, which was most impacted by the public health response. With oral
health often considered an after-thought from national and state guidance, DHSV's clinical
leadership group worked collaboratively with the Australian Dental Association Victorian Branch
and the dental team within the Victorian Department of Health to provide leadership and advice on
appropriate measures for the oral health sector.

At DHSV, the response was led by the Chief Oral Health Officer and team, comprising a core group
of dental professionals. This involved ongoing review, interpretation and application of emerging
evidence and local public health guidance/restrictions. This led to the development of care
pathways, procedures and advice for the public dental workforce including guidelines for triage,
screening processes, and patient management without aerosols.

Due to the decentralised structure of oral health services in Victoria, DHSV provided this guidance
but community health services providing public oral healthcare also needed to work within their
own governance structures and restrictions.

The broad areas of work covered were:

Area of work        Description
Dynamic risk­       DHSV developed dynamic risk-based practice guidance to support agencies in
based practice      adapting and applying the hierarchy of controls to their specific circumstances
procedure           to reduce Covid-19 transmission risk.
CO VID care         DHSV created a tiered approach to oral healthcare restrictions based on levels
pathways for        of broader public health restrictions. In line with Victoria's initial public health
oral health         response and restrictions, DHSV's initial guidance discouraged procedural
                    intervention to prevent transmission within clinics where possible and limited
                    treatment to emergency care.
                    Emergency care was expanded to urgent care, which could be undertaken
                    with strict adherence to pre-treatment protocols.
                    Further emerging evidence and the reduction of severely limiting statewide
                    public health orders led to advice to gradually provide more essential services
                    in a safe manner. Particularly as the pandemic continued, there was
                    increasing concern about the impacts of deferred care and the potential for
                    significant deterioration of oral health, particularly among populations at
                    greater risk of oral disease.
Triage during       DHSV developed a pathway to triage and direct patient to the appropriate
COVID19             level of care facilities, considering self-management with clinician advice as
                    initial step. If necessary, cases could be escalated to consult with dental
                    specialists to ascertain if acute hospital referral was required.
Infection control   Translation of health departments updates on the appropriate PPE and
guidance            infection control processes for the dental context.

Royal Dental        A pandemic response team was set up to lead the Royal Dental Hospital of
Hospital of         Melbourne's response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Royal Dental Hospital of
Melbourne           Melbourne had particular circumstances which differed to community health
                    services, which informed their response, including multi chair open space
                    clinics.
Telehealth          DHSV rapidly established a telehealth service to support enhanced triage
                    capability, provide oral health advice, and support public health orders to limit
                    public movement. This included: patient initiated telehealth sessions, clinician
                    to clinician telehealth support (including advice for diagnosis and
                    management of serious conditions such as suspected malignant oral lesions,
                    or life threatening oro-facial infections), and service initiated telehealth
                    sessions.


                    In May 2020, a patient-initiated telehealth services was launched from the
                    Royal Dental Hospital of Melbourne. Between 1 May 2020 and 30 April 2021,
                    2,492 patients accessed the service.
Disease             Aerosols are a routine part of oral health care. During the pandemic, DHSV
stabilisation and   promoted a focus on disease stabilisation of non-acute conditions and
aerosol             reduction of aerosol generating procedures, particularly during limited access
reduction           to oral healthcare under Covid-19 restrictions. This included modification of
                    dental procedures/ techniques to reduce aerosols, revive the use of
                    therapeutic agents (e.g. silver diamine fluoride) that can be used without
                    aerosols and stabilise conditions for a period.
Connecting with     The clinical leadership team provided advice to local clinicians through:
and supporting          -         emails to a statewide senior clinician network
Victorian dental        -         responding to individuals through 1:1 phone calls/emails
clinics statewide       -         senior clinician/manager monthly forums
                        -         statewide clinical forums/webinars

References
Australian Dental Association. 2015. Guidelines for Infection Control - 3rd Edition, [accessed 2023
Nov 22],
https://www.adansw.com.au/AustralianDentalAssociation/media/ADAMedia/Publications-
lnfectionControl-Guidelines-for-lnfection-Control_l.pdf.
Benzian H, Beltran-Aguilar E, Mathur MR, Niederman R. 2021. Pandemic Considerations on
Essential Oral Health Care. J Dent Res. 100(3):221-225. doi:10.1177/0022034520979830.
Chiesa V, Antony G, Wismar M, Rechel B. 2021. COVID-19 pandemic: health impact of staying at
home, social distancing and 'lockdown' measures—a systematic review of systematic reviews. J
Public Health. 43(3):e462-e481. doi:10.1093/pubmed/fdabl02.
Hopcraft M, Farmer G. 2021. Impact of COVID-19 on the provision of paediatric dental care:
Analysis of the Australian Child Dental Benefits Schedule. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol.
49(4):369-376. doi:10.1111/cdoe.l2611.
Lin C, Goncalves N, Scully B, Heredia R, Hegde S. 2022. A Teledentistry Pilot Study on Patient-
Initiated Care. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 19(15):9403. doi:10.3390/ijerphl9159403.
Mian M, Teoh L, Hopcraft M. 2021. Trends in Dental Medication Prescribing in Australia during the
COVID-19 Pandemic. JDR Clin Transl Res. 6(2):145-152. doi:10.1177/2380084420986766.
National Health and Medical Research Council. 2019. Australian Guidelines for the Prevention and
Control of Infection in Healthcare, [accessed 2023 Nov 22].
https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/publications-and-resources/resource-library/infection-
prevention-and-control-poster-droplet-precautions-addition-standard-precautions-poster.
Nguyen TM, Arora A, Sethi S, Gavanescu DJ, Heredia R, Scully B, Lin C, Hall M. 2023. Is Australia's
lack of national clinical leadership hampering efforts with the oral health policy agenda? Aust
Health Rev. 47(2):192-196. doi:10.1071/AH22278.
Nguyen TM, Tonmukayakul U, Calache H. 2021. Dental Restrictions to Clinical Practice during the
COVID-19 Pandemic: An Australian Perspective. JDR Clin Transl Res. 6(3):291-294.
doi:10.1177/23800844211000341.

Covid-19 pandemic clinical guidance documents from DHSV are available upon request:
   •       Pandemic Preparedness - Dynamic Risk-based Practice.
    •      What constitutes a dental emergency? ADA
    •      Emergency Dental Care in the CDA/ ROHM / Acute setting
    •      Emergency Care Pathway DHSV CDA Final
    •      COVID-19 Pandemic - Personal Protective Equipment
    •      Guidance for PPE for public dental healthcare workers in Vic (June 2021)
    •      Active Patient Management during C0VID19 Wait-Lists and-Recall Final
    •      Model of care oral disease stabilisation during C0VID-19 restrictions clinical guidelines
