                                                                       VICTORIAN
                                                                       ALLIED HEALTH
                                                                       PROFESSIONALS
                                                                       ASSOCIATION



                                    VAHPA Response to the COVID-19 Inquiry

The Victorian Allied Health Professionals Association (VAHPA) is the only specialist allied health
professionals trade union in Australia, representing nearly 6,000 allied health professionals in Victoria
across all health and social sectors, including hospitals (public and private), Community Health Centres,
disability providers, NDIS, private allied health providers, private radiology practices, private pathology
companies and Residential Aged Care Facilities.

This submission is a summary of the failures of the Commonwealth Government in the management of
the COVID-19 crisis. Several caveats need to be made before any analysis of Commonwealth
Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic is provided:

      1.   VAHPA has serious concerns about the legitimacy of this Inquiry. While touted as being run by an
           Independent Panel, it is being run out of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet which
           undermines the independence of the panel. Also, some of the panel members have featured
           prominently throughout the pandemic in public media, expressing strong opinions on public
           health COVID-19 mitigations. That potentially creates a conflict of interest for them when
           assessing submissions that don't necessarily align with their recorded public commentary. This
           Inquiry really should be a Royal Commission with the powers and scrutiny that would carry.
     2.    The United Kingdom Inquiry into COVID-19 has been a revelation in exposing the serious failures
           of the UK government and identified not just bad governance but also serious incompetence. To
           quote the Lancet: "The level of criminal incompetence exposed by the recent witnesses to the
           United Kingdom COVID-19 Inquiry...has proven that many, if not most, of the 230,000 deaths were
           preventable"        (see       link: https://www.thelancet.com/issue/S0140-6736(23)X0045-
           2?dgcid=twitter organic cover23 lancet&utm campaign=cover23&utm source=twitter&utm
             edium=social)
           To have a genuine impact on the current and future pandemics, the Australian COVID-19 Inquiry
           needs similar levels of scrutiny, preferably through a Royal Commission, especially given we have
           followed the UK lead on much of the pandemic response so far. (Of note, the findings of the UK
           Inquiry will also be pertinent to Australia given that "Criminal negligence" is part of English
           common law. Therefore, any judgement or determination of "criminal negligence" automatically
           sets a precedent which can be called upon in criminal proceedings in other common law countries
           such as Australia.)
     3.    The pandemic is still ongoing, despite government and business attempts to return to a business-
           as-usual model. COVID-19 is still having a serious impact on our members in the workplace and in
           the community through their children's schools and their elderly in care homes. Health
           professionals are still getting infected at work, and some are suffering Long COVID, limiting their
           capacity to return to work. The increased health burden, through COVID-19 directly and the
           depleted workforce, is exacerbating severe workload pressures. Any reference to the pandemic
           must reflect the active nature of the pandemic and avoid referring to the pandemic in the past
           tense. Despite a paucity of data and media to indicate this, as of December 2023, Australia is
           currently in the ninth wave of the pandemic. The health system and hospitals are still suffering
           severe, accumulative stress. Indicating the onset of this current wave, Victoria moved back up to
           Stage 2 COVID-19 Health Service Response in October 2023. What also must not be overlooked is
           the high base level of ongoing community infection and hospitalisations continuing between the
           peaks. This represents the "new normal" of the COVID-19 burden on a health system that was
           already under-resourced and over-stressed. While retrospective analysis of the pandemic



Victorian Allied Health Professionals Association response to CO VID-19 Inquiry
PO Box 58, Carlton South, Vic 3053 | Ph 1300 322 917 | Fax 03 9329 6468 | Email info@vahpa.asn.au | vahpa.asn.au ABN 38 106 461 384
           response is important, our members need to know what the plan is to arrest the relentless waves
           of COVID-19 that are still smashing our healthcare system and building a burden of untenable
           health conditions and ongoing death and disablement.
     4.    The Commonwealth Government has not yet implemented any of the recommendations of the
           Long COVID Inquiry released in April 2023. It gives us no confidence of achieving any practical
           outcome going into this Inquiry knowing that the Commonwealth Government has failed to act
           on the recommendations of the last one.

Commonwealth Government COVID-19 response assessment:

      1.   From the outset, the Commonwealth Government failed to apply the precautionary principle at
           the emergence of the novel Coronavirus, eventually labelled SARS CoV-2, which is a first principle
           response to any new pathogen. This was even despite the early warnings coming out of China that
           this novel Coronavirus was airborne.
     2.    The closure of international travel (coupled with the closure of state borders) was instrumental
           in stemming the early influx of COVID-19 and undoubtedly saved thousands of lives and allowed
           some states to live essentially COVID free for much of 2020 and some of 2021. This effectively
           "flattened the curve" and saved our health systems from early failure and bought Australia
           considerable time to prepare for future waves. Unfortunately, this time was wasted because of a
           reliance on the promise of the coming vaccines and as a consequence no other long-term
           mitigations such as improving indoor air quality were implemented.
     3.    There needs to be established and enforced Ventilation and Indoor Air Quality Standards for all
           Commonwealth public buildings, specifically to maximise external air input, enhance filtration and
           ensure sufficient air changes to improve the indoor air quality.
     4.    The PRE stockpile, especially the P2/N95 respirators, was allowed to run very low prior to the
           pandemic and then the Black Summer fires of 2019-20 caused serious depletion of the existing
           supply of N95s. This was a failure in pandemic preparedness of the Commonwealth.
     5.    A heavy reliance on private pathology companies for the essential testing program, led to
           exorbitant fees that the Commonwealth public health budget had to carry. They also had limited
           capacity to upscale quickly.
     6.    Supply chains - the loss of onshore manufacturing over decades meant a reliance on imported
           goods that left us extremely vulnerable to supply chain failures and led to serious supply shortages
           of essential PPE.
     7.    Lessons from the 2003 SARS pandemic were not headed - specifically the need to apply a
           precautionary principle and that the SARS virus was spread via airborne transmission and led to
           serious and significant ongoing health implications for survivors, pre-empting Long COVID that
           occurs after SARS-CoV-2 infections.
     8.    Residential Aged Care Facilities (RACFs) under Commonwealth jurisdiction have suffered serious
           outbreaks of COVID repeatedly throughout the pandemic, leading to death and hospitalisations.
           RACFs are still suffering repeated outbreaks which is unacceptable given what we now know and
           the tools we have to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. There should have been and still needs to
           be a concerted drive to improve non-pharmaceutical interventions such as improved ventilation,
           Far-UVC and HERA filters. The staff need better Infection Prevention and Control (IRC) training
           with enforcement of universal mask wearing, including N95s. There needs to be paid leave
           support for staff to isolate when infected until they repeatedly test negative. They should not be
           returning to work until they are testing negative. There needs to be a sustained, up-to-date
           vaccination booster program, providing on-site access for staff and residents. There needs to be
           mandatory mask wearing and screening for all visitors. This all needs to be supported by a multi­
           lingual, user-friendly education campaign.
     9.    The Disability Sector has often been overlooked in the pandemic response, creating confusion
           about IRC guidance and difficulty for carers and health professionals to access PPE. There was
           considerable confusion about whether settings for the COVID-19 response in health facilities



Victorian Allied Health Professionals Association response to CO VID-19 Inquiry
PO Box 58, Carlton South, Vic 3053 | Ph 1300 322 917 | Fax 03 9329 6468 | Email info@vahpa.asn.au | vahpa.asn.au ABN 38 106 461 384
         applied to the disability care sector. Similar nonpharmaceutical interventions and supports
         described for the RACFs (No.8 above) need to be implemented for the disability sector. Improving
         ventilation and air purification can significantly relieve the reliance on mask wearing, especially
         where compliance is low.
     10. Primary Care and Community Health Centres were lacking access to a centralised PPE resource.
         As a consequence, many GP clinics were not adequately equipped to see patients with respiratory
         symptoms, forcing these patients into the already stressed acute hospital system.
     11.      The closure of Respiratory Clinics in 2023 while the pandemic is still ongoing was premature.
     12. The closure of outdoor and walk-up PCR testing centres and the need for a GP referral to access
         PCR testing were serious mistakes, severely limiting access to testing.
     13. Cessation of some telehealth Medicare items that were generated to facilitate remote access to
         doctors and allied health professionals was a mistake.
     14. Lack of a Commonwealth Centre for Disease Control, such as seen in the USA and Europe has been
         a huge contributor to the absence of a co-ordinated and consistent response that was needed.
     15. Lack of a relevant Commonwealth standard of IPC with statutory requirements that directs the
         states      to     facilitate   a     consistent     application     of    airborne       mitigations.
         https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/publications/australian-guidelines-prevention-and-
           oi   >1- Tectic i-he th         19 directs you to ICEG who resisted accepting airborne spread of
         SARS-CoV-2 for much of the acute phase of the pandemic. The Commonwealth claims to have
         overseen a co-ordinated state effort, when in fact the states have all been pulling in different
         directions.
     16. Public Health Messaging has been a failure - we needed consistent, clear, unambiguous
         promotion of basic preventative and mitigating strategies, such as: COVID-19 is airborne and
         hangs in the air like cigarette smoke and can travel across indoor spaces; well fitted masks (N95)
         are very effective at reducing infection; while outdoors is much safer it still carries risk; good
         ventilation helps reduce risk-open windows and doors and add air filters (HEPA) where possible;
         vaccines decrease the risk of death and serious disease but do not stop transmission; isolate when
         infectious, do not attend work while sick (with any infectious illness, not just COVID).
     17. There needs to be a concerted education and awareness campaign that COVID-19 is primarily
         spread by airborne transmission, and not limited to close contact or droplet/fomite spread as was
         misleadingly promoted at the start of the pandemic and has become ingrained in IPC practice.
     18. Vaccines - delayed procurement, limited access, limiting age groups, have all been serious
         problems and still there have been delays procuring and dispensing the new monovalent XBB.1.5
         vaccines and updated Novavax. Much of Europe, Canada and the USA discarded the bivalent
         (BA4/BA5) vaccines that Australia continued to use (despite very poor efficacy against the XBB
         strains) and provided the updated monovalent Moderna and Pfizer XBB.1.5 vaccines and the new
         Novavax (NVX-CoV2601) options months before Australia.
     19. Relying on a vaccine only strategy for the return to business-as-usual despite severely limiting
         access to ongoing vaccination and not procuring or releasing newer variant specific vaccines.
     20.      National Cabinet - lack of transparency of decisions and failures to align with the latest science.
     21. Isolation - the reduction in isolation period requirements and eventual total abandonment of
         public isolation requirements - leading to further reduction of isolation periods for healthcare
         workers (e.g. 5 days in Victoria and 3 days in NSW) leading to infectious people returning to work.
     22. Support payments for workers who don't have access to personal (sick) leave, to allow them to
         stay home and isolate until testing negative should be universally accessible.
     23.      The declaration that the pandemic is over was premature with devastating effects.
     24. Encouraging the pursuit of "Herd Immunity" despite knowing the available vaccines did not block
         transmission and limiting access with select eligibility for age groups especially children and never
         allowing general access to the under five-year-olds was dangerous, misleading, and wrong.
     25. Pursuing the false concept of "Hybrid Immunity" despite evidence that COVID-19 infection was
         disrupting and depleting immune systems and creating other ongoing significant health impacts
         (Long COVID) was dangerous and wrong.


Victorian Allied Health Professionals Association response to CO VID-19 Inquiry
PO Box 58, Carlton South, Vic 3053 | Ph 1300 322 917 | Fax 03 9329 6468 | Email info@vahpa.asn.au | vahpa.asn.au ABN 38 106 461 384
