                                        My COVID-19 Story

START DATE - JULY 2021

I was notified by the organisation where I was a Sol^^BdeKha^/voul^nave to be vaccinated to
retain my lease on my room which I rented from                        It is a multidisciplinary
clinic where I had a podiatry practice with them for 10 years.



I tried to obtain a Medical Exemotior^s I am highly allergic to all vaccines. My doctor refused, of
course we now know that ^^^^^^Bthreatened doctors with deregistration if they gave anyone
exemptions. Since when is that lawful, of course all politicians, senior bureaucrats, and who
knows who else had exemptions, so just how dangerous was this seasonal cold/flu.

As a result, on the 30th of November I had to vacate my room a

A few weeks later I received an email from AHPRA, HCCC and The Australian Podiatry Council
NSW, because I dared to write a letter to the                                      OMICRON was
B.S because only those who were vaccinated could travel overseas or enter Australia. Lo and
behold the vaccinated brought a so-called virus into the country and let it loose.

My hearing was done online, and I was informed on the 24th May 2022 that I could not work as a
 rivate practitioner UNLESS I was to get 2 doses of the vaccine or until the Health Minister
                 who didn’t have to be vaccinated, repealed the Health Order.

In April 2022 the office of the Health Minister              personally refused me a Medical
Exemption WITHOUT a medical examination           No one from NSW HEALTH came to my
house or contacted me in any way to question me about my condition.
I Iost         in income and 1,962 patients. Less than 2 months after I had to leave^^^^H
          they replaced me with another podiatrist, it was my practice, I only rented space. My
income stream was stolen and patients were stolen because the government relied on unfounded
quazi. science. And as                  is all for the NEW WORLD ORDER” or my favourite
“THE GREATER GOOD”.

I have been a qualified podiatrist for 33 years and I am hacked off!



What the Australian Government did was a kneejerk reaction to a virus that has never been
isolated in a lab. Only Computer models have been put on television screen.

Masks science, particles greater than 1pm (micron 1/1000th mm) can be stopped by the bog­
standard Face Mask if worn correctly.

COVID -19 is 250nm or .025pm and like a popular analogy “The COVID virus is like a mosquito it
can pass through a chain linked fence without touching the metal”.

What the government did was a form of blackmail or coercion putting the blame on the
unvaccinated as we were the ones who were likely to spread the virus, when it was just the
common cold which is seasonal. The government was the fear monger all the long and remains
so. They are just muppets of the WHO, who were the people in unelected positions sprouting facts
and calling us the conspiracy theorists, when now the truth is coming out that we were right all
along, this was never about treating seasonal flu, it was about injecting foreign substances and
changing us, no matter the consequences to health.
Here again I will reiterate, I AM HIGHLY ALLERGIC TO MANY INJECTIONS introduced into my
body. I was told by doctors in 2012 that the reaction I had would have killed me if I had not been
rushed to

I want accountability for what was done to me and the other people in Australia who were forced to
cease work for what is now being treated as the common cold. We are already seeing family
members and friends die as a direct result of their compliance with this agenda.



Please see below the correspondence I had between^^^^^^^^^H The Secretary NSW
                 Minister of Health.
Another point - “Who are the relevant stakeholders”. Another ^^^Hstatement. It means nothing,
just another bit of gobbledygook.

THERE IS NOW SUCH THING AS GLOBAL BOILING, SEAS RISING, MAN MADE CO2
DISASTOR (1 Volcanic eruption produce more gases than man has produced in 60,000 years) OR
UFO’S. The earth goes around the sun the same it has been doing for billions of years. Get a grip.

My crime was speaking the TRUTH and I will not give up speaking the truth.

Sort this COVID mess out and leave me alone to treat my podiatry patients.

Donald lain Scott

Podiatrist
                                                                                                                               Thu, Oct 14, 2021,
                                                                                                                                         1:10 PM

to me



Hi Don

Just letting you know that you will need to be fully vaccinated by the 30 November.

Please see the below email

Just wanted you to be informed ASAP

Take care




                     Practice Manager

                                                                                     |W




This message has been issued by                             The information transmitted is for the use of the intended recipient only and may contain
confidential and/or legally privileged material. Any review, re-transmission, disclosure, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in
reliance upon, this information by persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please
notify                                        and delete all copies of this transmission together with any attachments.
From:
Sent: 'fflureday^^October 2021 11:53 AM
To: All Staff
Subject: MANDATORY COVID VACCINATION STATEMENT

Dear everyone,

Further to our communication back in August (below), which flagged our intention to move to
mandatory vaccinations, I am pleased to say people have really been stepping up to play their part
in the national vaccination effort - protecting themselves and everybody around them. Based on
our recent data collection, over 95% of respondents across the ^^^H ietwork have now been
vaccinated, most having had both doses.

As we all know, vaccination is one of the best ways of protecting against transmission and
minimising risk of hospitalisation. Given we are in what is considered a ‘high risk’ area of work and
we now have ample supply of AZ and Pfizer, with Moderna options also widely available, we feel
we have an obligation to protect our team members and patients as best we can. To this end, we
will therefore require everyone working in                  jedical centre, office environment or
attending any team functions to be fully vaccinated by 30th November. Practice Managers
and team leaders are in the process of collecting everybody’s certificates. Please download and
forward yours before the deadline. Only employees who work permanently from home or have an
approved medical exemption will be exempt.

For the small proportion of team members who remain concerned about getting a vaccination, we
encourage you to speak to your regular GP or one of our doctors regarding your concerns. If any
of you do not intend to get vaccinated and you do not have a medical exemption, please make
yourself known to your PM or team leader and we will discuss with you the options that may be
available.

As a frontline healthcare business, we all have an important role to play in protecting the
communities in which we operate and our fellow team members. We hope everybody comes on
board with this mandate and we wish you continued health and safety as we move back to a more
normal life.

Best regards




               | Chief Executive Officer
                                                                                    Thu, Oct 14, 2021,
                                                                                              1:10 PM

to me



Hi Don

Just letting you know that you will need to be fully vaccinated by the 30 November.

Please see the below email

Just wanted you to be informed ASAP

Take care




             | Practice Manager

                                                         W




From:
Sent: Thursday, 14 October 2021 11:53 AM
To: All Staff
Subject: MANDATORY COVID VACCINATION STATEMENT



Dear everyone,

Further to our communication back in August (below), which flagged our intention to move to
mandatory vaccinations, I am pleased to say people have really been stepping up to play their part
in the national vaccination effort - protecting themselves and everybody around them. Based on
our recent data collection, over 95% of respondents across the         network have now been
vaccinated, most having had both doses.

As we all know, vaccination is one of the best ways of protecting against transmission and
minimising risk of hospitalisation. Given we are in what is considered a ‘high risk’ area of work and
we now have ample supply of AZ and Pfizer, with Moderna options also widely available, we feel
we have an obligation to protect our team members and patients as best we can. To this end, we
will therefore require everyone working in an             medical centre, office environment or
attending any team functions to be fully vaccinated by 30th November. Practice Managers
and team leaders are in the process of collecting everybody’s certificates. Please download and
forward yours before the deadline. Only employees who work permanently from home or have an
approved medical exemption will be exempt.

For the small proportion of team members who remain concerned about getting a vaccination, we
encourage you to speak to your regular GP or one of our doctors regarding your concerns. If any
of you do not intend to get vaccinated and you do not have a medical exemption, please make
yourself known to your PM or team leader and we will discuss with you the options that may be
available.

As a frontline healthcare business, we all have an important role to play in protecting the
communities in which we operate and our fellow team members. We hope everybody comes on
board with this mandate and we wish you continued health and safety as we move back to a more
normal life.

Best regards




               Chief Executive Officer
27 October 2021


Mandatory COVID Vaccination Policy within^^^J Medical Centres



Dear Allied Health Partner,



As a frontline healthcare business we have an important role to play in protecting our team

members and the communities in which we operate. Given we are in what is considered a ‘high
risk’

area of work and we now have sufficient supply of vaccine options widely available, we feel we
have

an obligation to protect our team members and patients as best we can.

To this end, we have taken the decision to require everyone working in anmedical centre,

office environment or attending any team functions to be fully vaccinated by 30 th November.

As an Allied Health partner to         this mandate will apply to your organisation and team

members from this date. Only those staff who have an approved medical exemption will be
exempt.

Over the course of the next 5 weeks we will require a confirmation from your organisation of the

compliance to the above. This can done by simply emailing your local Practice Manager and

attaching a copy of the vaccination certificate(s).

For the small proportion of team members who remain concerned about getting a vaccination, we

encourage you to speak to your regular GP or one of our doctors regarding your concerns.

If any of your team members do not intend to get vaccinated and do not have a medical
exemption,

please contact your local Practice Manager and we can discuss options that may be available.

We hope everybody comes on board with this mandate and we wish you continued health and

safety as we move back to a more normal life.



Yours Sincerely,




Regional Manager-Old and NSW
Mr Donald lain Scott

Email:                           Our ref S22/299



Dear Mr Scott

Thank you for writing about COVID-19 vaccination requirements.

I acknowledge the impact COVI -19 has had on the community and appreciate the

cooperation of clients, families, carers, and staff throughout the pandemic.

Vaccination against COVID-19 has been an important element of the NSW response to the

pandemic. High rates of primary dose vaccination have been achieved in the community.

Following changes in public health risk settings, the NSW Government has lifted public

health orders requiring key workforces to be vaccinated. Vaccine requirements will be based

on risk assessments underwork health and safety laws, in line with other jurisdictions.

The Public Health (COVID-19 Vaccination of Health Care Workers) Order 2022 ceased at

the end of 19 June 2022.

Requirements for COVID-19 vaccination of health care workers have transitioned from public

health orders to a workplace health and safety risk assessment model. Under this model,

employers conduct their own risk assessments and consider vaccination requirements for

their workplaces. Workplaces are required to keep their premises safe and minimise the risk

of COVID-19 transmission.

Although the Public Health (COVID-19 Vaccination of Health Care Workers) Order 2022 has

lifted, COVI -19 vaccination has become a mandatory condition of employment for some

workplaces, including all NSW Health employees.

Health care workers work with vulnerable and sick members of the community, including

those who have COVID-19. By ensuring that health care workers are vaccinated, their risk of

infection, severe disease and death will be reduced.

COVID-19 vaccines are effective in preventing the severe impacts of infections with the virus.

With high vaccination coverage in the community, a greater proportion of people admitted to

hospital or ICU with COVID-19 are now vaccinated with two or more doses. However, when

the size of the vaccinated and unvaccinated populations in NSW are considered, people who

are not vaccinated remain far more likely to suffer severe COVID-19.

I strongly recommend that you seek advice from your employer as to requirements for

mandatory vaccination in your workplace.
As the situation continues to evolve, please visit the NSW Government website at

www.nsw.gov.au/covid-19 for updates.

Thank you again for writing.

Yours sincerely




Secretary, NSW Health




Again, she missed the point I am a SOLER TRADER in PRIVATE PRACTICE. I am IT.
Response to your enquiry (Our ref: M22/4036)
HCCC
Search for all messages with label HCCC
Remove label HCCC from this conversation




MOH-Minister                                                                                Fri, Apr 29, 2022,
                                                                                                    11:20 AM
to me

□ear Mr Scott
Thank you for writing to request an exemption to the vaccination requirements for healthcare workers
under the public health order.
Vaccination against COVID-19 has been an important element of NSW's response to the COVID-19
pandemic. In order to help protect the public, particularly vulnerable members of the public, there have
been public health orders requiring certain people to be vaccinated before working in particular areas. This
includes the Public Health (COVID-19 Vaccination of Health Care Workers) Order 2022 which requires
healthcare workers, including podiatrists, to have received at least two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine in
order to work as a healthcare worker unless they have a medical contraindication.
Your request for an exemption to the vaccination requirements has been considered but has been
declined. While the recent floods in some of NSW has caused difficulties, NSW Health has advised that
there is not an operational need to permit unvaccinated healthcare workers to provide health services.
However, please note that following the changes in public health risk settings, the NSW Government has
announced that public health orders requiring key workforces to be vaccinated will be lifted, with vaccine
requirements to be based on risk assessments under occupational work health and safety, in line with
other jurisdictions. Orders requiring aged care and disability workers to be vaccinated will remain in force.
The timing of the lifting of the orders is still to be determined and I note that consultation will take place
with relevant stakeholders before details are finalised.
Thank you for correspondence. If you have any queries, please email Ms^^^^^^^^^^ Special
Counsel, Legislation and Policy or phone her onH

Regards
Office of the Hor
Minister for Health




The Highlighted part in Yellow showed that^^^^His and was OUT OF TOUCH with the real
situation in NSW
