                                 EMERGE AUSTRALIA PRE-BUDGET SUBMISSION 2024/25-2026/27 | DECEMBER 2023 | PAGE 1




                                                                                                                      emerge



Submission to Federal COVID-19 Response Inquiry
15 December 2023



Anne Wilson, CEO




Emerge Australia Inc is the national patient organisation representing 250,000 Australians with
myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) and an estimated 325,000 Australians
who experience Long COVID. While research is yet to confirm the cause of ME/CFS, a majority of
people with ME/CFS can attribute onset of symptoms after viral infection.1. ME/CFS shares many
symptoms and biological abnormalities with Long COVID.2 Research suggests up to 45% of people
with Long COVID meet the diagnostic criteria for ME/CFS.3 The impact of the diseases on carers,
families and the economy is identical. To address these diseases in silos is therefore neither cost
effective or efficient and ignores learnings from ME/CFS researchers locally and internationally. A lot
can therefore be learnt from existing ME/CFS knowledge, without having to 'reinvent the wheel'.

Emerge Australia supports patients via a national telehealth program; undertakes collaborative
research (we operate a patient registry and biobank which collects samples from people with Long
COVID), advocacy and evidence-based clinical education.

Key Health Response Measures - National Post-infection Disease Strategy

Emerge Australia acknowledges that the Federal Government's Long COVID Inquiry found that
"there may be a crossover between Long COVID and ME/CFS" and "recommended they be treated
separately"4. Both illnesses, however, share abnormalities involving the central and autonomic
nervous systems, the immune system, reactivation of latent infectious agents (primarily
herpesviruses), the gut microbiome, energy metabolism, a hypometabolic state, redox imbalance,
and various cardiac, pulmonary and vascular abnormalities. The similar underlying biology of ME/CFS
and Long COVID suggest that insights into each disorder will have implications for the other.
Research into their pathophysiology has the potential to lead to new strategies for reducing the
morbidity of ME/CFS and Long COVID and of similar illnesses that follow a variety of infections5.



1 H. Naess, et al. ‘Postinfectious and chronic fatigue syndromes: clinical experience from a tertiary-referral centre in Norway’ Vivo, 24:2
(2010).
2 Komaroff AL and Lipkin Wl (2023) ME/CFS and Long COVID share similar symptoms and biological abnormalities: road map to the literature. Front. Med.
10:1187163. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1187163
3 C. Kedor, et al. 'A prospective observational study of post-COVID-19 chronic fatigue syndrome following the first pandemic wave in
Germany and biomarkers associated with symptom severity'. Nature communications, 13:1 (2022).
4 House of Representatives, Standing Committee on Health, Aged Care and Sport. ‘Sick and tired: Casting a long
shadow'. Parliament of Australia, Canberra, (2023).
5 Komaroff and Lipkin (2023)
                      EMERGE AUSTRALIA PRE-BUDGET SUBMISSION 2024/25 - 2026/27 | DECEMBER 2023 | PAGE 2




The similarities of Long COVID and ME/CFS lead to Emerge Australia calling for a National Post
Infection Disease Strategy to be developed that guides government investment in

    •   Diagnosis, treatment and management of post-infection diseases such as Long COVID and
        ME/CFS via development of nationally consistent clinical guidelines
    •       Education, training, support and resources for GPs and other health professionals
    •      Collaborative research on the overlaps between Long COVID and ME/CFS, building on
        ME/CFS research (so as not to re-invent the wheel) including:
           o characteristics, risk factors and underlying pathophysiology
           o how best to prevent, diagnose and treat
           o how Long COVID interacts with, and the similarities of, conditions such as ME/CFS,
               and overlapping symptoms, including fatigue and reduced exercise capacity.
