                                           C0VID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY


                                                   SUBMISSION BY:



                                                    Marie Johnson

                                                        CEO

                           Centre for Digital Business Pty Limited ABN: 16 162 122 072




                                                  CENTRE FOR         _
                                                    digital business




                                                 15 December 2023




Marie Johnson                                                                            COVID-19 Response Inquiry
CEO, Centre for Digital Business, ABN: 16 162 122 072                                           15 December 2023
Marie-johnson.com
Submission to the Inquiry into the response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

The COVIDSafe App was developed in early 2020 and subsequently heavily promoted by the Australian
Government with the primary purpose being to assist contact tracing efforts. Technical limitations of Apple's IOS
and Google's Android operating systems were identified early on as limiting the effectiveness of the app. In late
May 2020 Apple and Google jointly announced the initial release of the Exposure Notification Framework (ENF)
to address the primary issues compromising the performance of this and similar apps being developed across
the world1.

In mid-June 2020 Boston Consultin^rou^BCG^rovide^dvic^^he Australian Government regarding the
ENF and recommended"                                    based on its assessment that even if



Notwithstanding similar private and public advice from many other parties to adopt the ENF, the Government
chose instead to pursue an alternative, locally developed, solution known as "Herald". This solution proved
largely ineffective, and to the best of my knowledge, no other nation adopted this "novel" technology.

The primary purpose of this brief submission is to contrast this decision with that of many other nations in
20201", to understand how it was made and ensure that in the future we avoid making decisions that ignore the
advice of competent technical experts.
In 1997, Former President of the Soviet Union^^^^^^^^^^^^said, "Political leaders need scientific
support...The price of mistakes in political decision-making is very high." Over many decades of experience in
global technology, I have found this advice to be true.

In the case of the CovidSafe App, technical advice appeared to have been ignored or over-ruled at the political
level, a reckless catastrophe during a global pandemic. Such high-handed political over-reach it would seem,
bore no regard to the nature and scale of risk. This is the same culture, practice, and disregard for risk to life
that was witnessed during RoboDebt, and continues with RoboNDIS created at the same time as RoboDebt.

This period of RoboDebt, RoboNDIS and the CovidSafe App catastrophes, bear lessons that cannot and must not
be ignored.

Based on evidence and the experience in the UK, the Australian Government's decision to not adopt the ENF,
may have resulted in the suffering and/or death of many more Australian Citizens than otherwise would have
occurred.

The UK's first attempt at a COVID App was piloted in early 2020. It failed miserably and was abandoned. In
contrast to the Australian Government however, in late September 2020 they launched a new version which
(for the first time) included the Apple/Google ENF APIs'7. In May 2021, Nature published the findings of a
research effort undertaken by researchers from Oxford University and the Turing Institute7. The key findings of
this research note are, that over the three-month period from October to December 2020, the updated app was
used by 16.5 million users and that the use of the app reduced the number of infections by between 284,000
and 594,000 cases. By any measure that's a lot of people that didn't become infected, get sick or subsequently
die.

While it is the case that the UK went on to face a far larger problem with COVID, and with the user experience of
its App, this research nevertheless appears to have confirmed the advice given to the Australian Government
and demonstrated that it was the decision to adopt the Google/Apple ENF that made the difference between an
app that worked effectively to support contact tracing and one that didn't.
The Final Report of the Senate Select Committee on Covid 19 (April 2022)71, touched briefly on the failure of the
COVIDSafe app to deliver on its early promises. It did not however consider the consequences of the
Government's decision to ignore the use of the ENF.

Recommendation: That the Review/Committee:

    1.        Investigate the reasons for not adopting the ENF.
    2.       Examine any political interference in the use of the ENF standard.
    3.   Determine what risk assessment (including risk to life) was undertaken in the development of the
         CovidSafe App, with the intentional decision not to adopt the globally accepted protocol.

 Marie Johnson                                                                           COVID-19 Response Inquiry
 CEO, Centre for Digital Business, ABN: 16 162 122 072                                          15 December 2023
 Marie-johnson.com
   4.   Recommend to government that the "CovidSafe App ENF Decision", be developed as a case study of
        equal bearing and weight as the RoboDebt case study, for study and examination by the Australian
        Public Sector.




Marie Johnson                                                                     COVID-19 Response Inquiry
CEO, Centre for Digital Business, ABN: 16 162 122 072                                    15 December 2023
Marie-johnson.com
Marie Johnson
Marie Johnson is the CEO of the Centre for Digital Business, a digital services and Al company.

Marie is an eminent global award-winning digital authority; advocate for the humanitarian application of Al; and
a relentless inclusion and accessibility advocate. Marie was awarded the prestigious US Government O-Visa for
Individuals with Extraordinary Ability or Achievement.

She is an international speaker, author, and commentator on artificial intelligence, human rights, technology,
ehealth, cyber, identity, ethics, and innovation.

Marie's expertise is the human experience in complex servicing systems.

At the forefront of digital transformation for decades, Marie's inimitable track record across the public and
private sector in Australia and internationally, covers health and human services; disability services; global
ehealth immigration and visa systems; tax; identity; and payments.
The expanse of roles includes large scale service delivery operations; global technology; advisor to governments
globally; Chief Information Officer; Chief Technology Architect; Technology Authority; intelligence analyst; board
director; and STEM patron.

Throughout her career, Marie's extraordinary expertise has been sought by world leaders and global
organisations on the geo-political and democratic dynamics of national technology.

Her distinguished experience encompasses leading Microsoft's Worldwide Public Services and eGovernment
industry based in Seattle. In taking up this role, the US Government awarded Marie the 0-1 Visa with Microsoft
noting Marie's egovernment knowledge '...is unique in the world and is of particular interest to Microsoft as we
pursue our egovernment strategies'.

For many years, Marie was the Chief Technology Architect for the Australian Department of Human Services,
with responsibilities including the architecture and technology business cases bringing together the massive
systems of Centrelink, Medicare Australia, and the Child Support Agency. Marie was responsible for initiating
Payment Delivery Reform, as part of Service Delivery Reform. Previously, Marie was the Chief Technology
Architect for the Australian Health and Human Services Access Card.

In a major service delivery transformation role at the Department of Immigration and Citizenship, Marie created
and delivered the Visa Pricing Transformation, which generated interest globally from friendly counterpart
Immigration agencies. For the first time, this involved the application of differential pricing to visas, channels,
visa products in conjunction with an innovative digital business model, electronic payments strategy and
legislative change, projecting additional revenue to the Federal Budget of $700Million. Responsibilities also
encompassed the delivery of the global eMedical system (a digital operating model for managing risk-based
health assessments) to over one hundred countries, in partnership with Citizenship and Immigration Canada.
Marie was Head of the Technology Authority for the Australian National Disability Insurance Agency and
responsible for the technology business case, the implementation of co-design, a programme of innovation and
the creation of Nadia.

Various board and advisory roles include Independent Member of the Australian Federal Police Spectrum
Program Board; member of the New South Wales Government Digital Government Advisory Board; invited
member of the Accenture Global CIO Council; National Director of the Australian Information Industry
Association; Faculty at Exponential Medicine Singularity University; and an Inaugural Member of The Australian
National University Cyber Institute Advisory Board.

Over many years, Marie has been a judge on Australian and international technology and innovation awards.
Marie is a writer and regular contributor to a variety of media publications, including InnovationAus and CIO
Australia. She has authored chapters for books, and authored and co-authored international papers. Marie was
one of forty Australian innovation leaders and foremost thinkers invited to write a paper on the future of
Australian jobs and industry, in the first publication of The Innovation Papers.

Marie is an in-demand international keynote speaker and sought-after participant on podcasts and webinars.
She has spoken at Singularity University Exponential Medicine; Medica, the world's largest medical and health
trade fair; O'Reilly Al; and in 2020, delivered the Kenneth Jenkins Oration.

 Marie Johnson                                                                           COVID-19 Response Inquiry
 CEO, Centre for Digital Business, ABN: 16 162 122 072                                          15 December 2023
 Marie-johnson.com
The innovation and digital initiatives Marie has led have been recognised globally.

These include the United Nations Public Service Award in the category 'Application of ICT in government:
egovernment' for Business Entry Point (www.business.gov.au) which she led for 5 years prior.

Marie was recognised as the 2006-2007 'Innovative CIO of the Year - Australia'; named one of Australia's '100
Women of Influence" in 2013; and awarded the 'Exceptional Woman of Excellence' at the 2019 Women
Economic Forum.

In 2022, Marie received the Australian Capital Territory Mental Health Carer Award.

Marie has an MBA from the Melbourne Business School (specialising in innovation, technology, and
ecommerce); Bachelor of Arts Deakin University (international relations, defence, and strategic studies);
Graduate of the Harvard University Kennedy School of Government Senior Executive Fellows Program; and
Graduate of Australian Institute of Company Directors.




1 https://covidl9.apple.com/contacttracing and https://www.google.com/covidl9/exposurenotifications/

11 https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-ll/foi-4810-released-documents-covidsafe-app-abt-
report.pdf

111 https://www.xda-developers.com/google-apple-covid-19-contact-tracing-exposure-notifications-api-app-list-
countries/

lv https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/iun/18/uk-poised-to-abandon-coronavirus-app-in-favour-of-
apple-and-google-models

v https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03606-z

Vlhttps://parlinfo.aph.gov.au/parllnfo/download/committees/reportsen/024920/toc pdf/Finalreport.pdf;fileTy
pe=application%2Fpdf




 Marie Johnson                                                                        COVID-19 Response Inquiry
 CEO, Centre for Digital Business, ABN: 16 162 122 072                                       15 December 2023
 Marie-johnson.com
