14/12/2023



Dear Sir/Madam,

RE: The Australian Government's COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I welcome this opportunity to submit details of my experience of the government's response to
Covid-19. I am a father of                                           I am from the^^^^^^^^^H
               where we were subjected to^^^^^^^rules that restricted our freedom and were
detrimental to: our work, our health, our freedom. In my submission I attempt to address areas of
most interest to this enqiury.

The role of government

                                                                                     Covid-19 was all
that mattered according to Andrews, whilst the adverse effects of lockdown, mask and vaccine
mandates were ignored. State of emergency laws should provide for a balanced response. Instead,
these laws were changed at the drop of a hat to satisfy the state government's desires. An appeal to
the federal government went unheeded. For future situations such as that of Covid 19, state
governments should not be able to change laws to suit their own agenda, fears or misconceived
pursuits. In addition, the constitution should have more weight. The federal government is also
grossly at fault, as the state and territory governments could not have implemented their stringent
COVID policies without the support and endorsement of the federal government. The federal
government is not without the power to reign in rogue states and territories, via, for example,
reprimands and the withholding of funds. The federal government's failure exacerbated the
problems I highlight below.

Key health response measures

Key health measures were maniacally disproportionate, infringing on our freedoms and detrimental
to our health. Mask mandates, vaccine mandates and lockdowns were proved to be ineffectual and
unecessary, yet were pursued. Furthmore, privacy is important, especially when it comes to health,
yet we were forced to show our vaccine passport to strangers to partake in society. For choosing to
keep my vaccine status to myself, I was:

    •        Locked out of shops, such as Bunnings and Rebel Sport;
    •        Refused entry to the public library, which was distressing to myself and my young child;
    •   Refused admission to the council offices, to the extent that I was loudly abused in public by
        the lady positioned at the entrance;
    •        Barred from entry to hospital for an X-ray appointment; and
    •        Permanently barred from visiting my local GP.

The effect of response measures on my family were:

    •        irst sufferred myocarditis due to coerced vaccination (in order to maintain her job),
        and then subsequently lost her job rather than take a booster shot that could cause further
        damage to her health;
    •   Lockdowns mentally affected my children,
        (mental health support after the event is not an acceptable arrangement, as the damage has
        already been done); and
    •   My high-school-aged child was advised by the school principal to go behind her parents'
        backs to achieve "mature minor" status and therefore get Covid-vaccinated.

I trust the details I have provided herein are taken into account in the enquiry.
