SUBMISSION

COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce

The following information is from a notebook I have written called Toward Absolute Truth and
Integrity. If this is deemed unsuitable because it doesn't specifically focus on the response to
the COVID-19 pandemic, I will forward it to the National Anti-Corruption Commission.


1. 2016/2017 WHO-COVID Agreement

Details of the World Health Organisation COVID/Biometric Digital ID Pass System plan were
'dropped' into the internet in 2021



  This plan was actioned in 2016/2017 by the WHO.
                  the Public Health Department will be planning to vaccinate 95% of the
  Australian population, gather up all our DNA and hook us all up to a Biometric Digital ID
  Pass System. With all that personal data to be handed over to the WHO.

  It was signed off in 2018. It's set for completion in 2023. Which means none of us will be
  allowed out of our homes until every single one of us has been poisoned. It's part of the
  International Health Regulations (IHR) agreement that was signed in 2005 that activated
  the "pan-corona" measures. The IHR is a Public Private Partnership deal with 196 nations
  that agree to ensure that International Trade and Commerce traffic is not disrupted during
  a WHO declared emergency.

  This is why we are locked in our homes. It's to keep us out of Mr Globalist's way. It looks
  like the IHR has been hijacked and corrupted by the Globalists and is why we are being
  driven into the ground by unlawful activity and stealth. It's being used as a Weapon of
  Mass Destruction using a pen.

  All the people need to demand                         immediately withdraw from the IHR
  agreement and Corona will cease to exist for Australia. The Corona pandemic was
  declared to facilitate the nations to implement their National Action Plan for Health
  Security (NAPHS) plan, that's all. There is no real pandemic. It is simple treason.

   Note: Minor grammatical edits were made to the aforementioned allegations.


2. Evidence That Governments Were Incentivised to Record COVID Deaths

In May, 2023, a video discussion featured an unnamed journalist who exposed a COVID death
'payment schedule' signed by the Caribbean governments and many other governments around
the world. He also explained why the vaccine mandates held such weight for implicated
governments and why so many death certificates fraudulently listed COVID as the cause of death.

Key Discussion Points

   •    The journalist refers to various payments listed on page 8 of the document:
            >    250 deaths - $56M
           >   750 deaths - $112M
           >   2500 deaths - $195M
           >   Trinidad allegedly claimed 2500 deaths and received almost $200M.
   •   Governments were incentivised to record deaths. The global powers designed a system
       that would incentivise governments to look for and report deaths. These numbers help
       to feed the fear and this fear helps to increase compliance.
   •   Global powers also moved finance from its purpose of serving society as a medium of
       exchange, to being a weapon that will be used by globalist powers to manage a country
       - strangle a country if it needs to - and to bring these countries into a system of control
       where if they don't do as they are told, they will manipulate the monetary system and
       cause them to suffer significantly and push them out of power so they can bring in their
       friends. Whoever is favourable to the global powers will be elected.
   •       Jamaica is on a mission to stop all of this.


Video Link - COVID Depopulation Payment Discussion




3. Genetic Bioweapons Industry - Why Future Pandemics Are Preventable

The following notes are from an August 2021 interview with                         Founding
and Senior Pastor of Rapha Revival Ministries, Trinidad. He reveals many disturbing facts
about the covert bioweapons arms race and COVID-19:

   •       an international law expert and genetic bioweapons expert. In
       1989, he framed the anti-terrorism act called the Bioweapons Anti-Terrorism Act
       which was signed into law in 1990.
   •   In February 2020 ^^^^|said that SARS COVID 2 is an offensive biological warfare
       agent made in a lab and engineered with gain of function properties. He has come to
       the conclusion that SARS COVID 2 is tripartite chimera and is composed of the
       original SARS virus which is already weaponised.
   •   It was enhanced by gain of function properties. They were then genetically recombined
       with an HIV virus that causes AIDS. Gain of function means genetically engineered to
       be more lethal, more virulent, more infectious and to mutate or adapt more readily
       with slight increases in immune selection pressure from the population. It's also called
       accelerated viral evolution. Viruses don't jump from animals to humans.
   •   Research at the Australian Animal Research lab was funded by the Chinese Ministry of
       Science and Technology along with the Wuhan Institute and the Academy of Sciences in
       China. Their experimental goal was to coalesce the initial weaponised SARS virus,
       enhance it with gain of function properties and then coalesce it genetically to a HIV virus.
    •        This is no longer a pandemic of SARS COVID 2. This is a pandemic of variants.
    •    Why aren't our virologists telling us about recombination i.e. a vaccinated host can be
         infected by more than one variant at one time. There are over 100 variants already
        floating around across the globe. When a vaccinated person is infected by multiple
        variants, they mix and change the DNA and produce a super variant. And nothing can
         stop them. The latest variant is vaccine resistant.
    •    22 nations have BSL4 (Biosafety Level 4) in their labs where they make deadly pathogens
         16 nations stockpile genetic bioweapons - there is a new arms race going on.
    •    The world first became aware of the existence of a genetic bioweapons industry
        through a book published in 1996 called Emerging Viruses, AIDS & Ebola, Nature,
         Accident or Intentional?
         proved that AIDS and Ebola are manufactured viruses, engineered in a laboratory. His
         academic treatise has stood the test of time and has never been refuted.
    •    In 1997, former US Secretary of State William Cohen referred to the concept of an
         ethnic bioweapon as a possible risk. In 1998, some biological weapons experts
         considered such genetic weapons plausible. And you know when they say that, it
         means they have already produced it, stockpiled it and are waiting to use it.
    •    In 1998, research was being done on how certain substances can influence human
         genes. In 2008, the US government congressional committee sat on a panel labelled
         Genetics and Other Human Modification Technologies. The committee said that there
         are attempts to alter human genetics in ways that would horrify us.
    •    The pharmaceutical industry controls the WHO, the US legislature, medical research
        journals, scientific journals, medical schools, co-opted control of national governments,
         public health authorities, medical fraternity, media, business sector and the ecclesiastical
         leaders. The elites and ecclesiastics have decided to mass vaccinate the world. This is not
         real science. This is death science.

Video Link - Dr Michael McDowell's interview


4. Quiet Weapons for Silent Wars - 'A Type of Biological Warfare'

Lastly, the Quiet Weapons for Silent Wars top secret programing manual, published in 1979,
states: "The silent weapon is a type of biological warfare.




Download Link - Quiet Weapons for Silent Wars


Thank you for the opportunity to contribute this widely unreported information to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry Taskforce.

Yours sincerely

Linda Summer
14/12/2023
