COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                             GSK


                       GSK Australia Submission:
           Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Australia welcomes the opportunity to comment on the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response
Inquiry.

As a global biopharma company, we are committed to playing our part in supporting pandemic preparedness. Our
main contribution is via the research, development and provision ofvaccines, along with antivirals and antibiotics.

GSK is proud to have partnered with the Australian Government to support Australia’s pandemic response by
providing COVID-19 early treatment Xevudy® (sotrovimab).

It is well recognised that while the impact of the pandemic is still being felt in Australia, Australia outperformed many
counties - including the United States of America and Canada - in preserving life and population health in the
pandemic.1 Australia's pandemic response was evidence of what can be achieved when all levels of government,
researchers, industry, guidelines developers, clinicians and the community work collaboratively.

In this submission, GSK draws on our own COVID-19 experience and global insights as a leader in communicable
disease prevention and response. We focus on two areas of action that can be taken now to enhance our national
preparedness and response systems to manage future pandemic events. These actions reflect and build on the
Government’s commitment to establish the Australian Centre for Disease Control:
     •         Invest to keep Australians well to prepare for any pandemic
     •         Secure Australians’ access to medical innovations to respond to a pandemic, including via:
                            o    Priority reimbursement pathways
                            o    Nationally harmonised health workforce practicing to their scope of practice to meet
                                 community need
                            o    Awareness and communications materials for the community and health professionals
                            o    International collaboration



 GSK’s response to COVID-19
 From the start of the pandemic, GSK sought ways to harness our scientific expertise and technology to make a
 difference. Together with our partners we are developing COVID-19 therapeutics and vaccines.

 GSK is proud be partnering with the Australian Government to support Australia’s pandemic response by
 providing COVID-19 early treatment Xevudy® (sotrovimab), which has been administered to an estimated 23,000
 patients nationally.

 In our experience of the pandemic, governments at all levels, researchers, industry, guidelines developers,
 clinicians and the community were aligned and focused. We were committed to delivering access to Xevudy®
 (sotrovimab) for those who needed it, when and where it was needed.

 A prime example was the coordination of the Therapeutic Goods Administration’s (TGA) rapid review of
 submissions and coordination across the Government to roll out access. The TGA worked with the Australian
 Department of Health and Aged Care, the state and territory health departments, the National COVID-19 Clinical
 Evidence Taskforce and GSK to ensure that new supply of Xevudy® (sotrovimab) could be rolled out as soon as it
 was approved. From the outset, clinicians were trained and supported to utilise Xevudy® (sotrovimab) to the
 benefit of Australians with COVID-19.




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                               1
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                                            GSK


Action: Invest to keep Australians well to prepare for future pandemics
A healthy and resilient society is better equipped to face known and unknown future health challenges. Investing
now to keep Australians well will ensure ongoing pandemic preparedness.

Currently, Australia underinvests in preventive health. Australia allocates 1.8 per cent of its total healthcare
expenditure to preventive health, whereas in the UK, the allocation is 3.7 per cent, and in Canada, it stands at 5.9
per cent.2

Australia has 8.9 million residents aged over 50 years. Of these around 4.1 million are living with a chronic condition
that makes them for vulnerable to preventable disease.3 For example, older people with comorbidities were among
those most impacted by COVID. In 2021, 65.1 per cent of those who lost their lives to COVID had a chronic
condition reported; in 2023 this number is 85.2 per cent.4

Australia’s underinvestment in preventive health, coupled with the growing health needs of our ageing population,5
leave us vulnerable to the next pandemic.

There is clear evidence to support that government investment in vaccines keep people well by preventing disease
and reducing poor health outcomes.6 By maintaining overall population health and preventing and reducing poor
outcomes from conditions like flu, pneumonia and shingles, people are better equipped to withstand and recover
from future infections.

Every dollar invested in preventive health saves an estimated $14.30 in healthcare and other costs7 This economic
benefit was demonstrated in real time during the COVID-19 pandemic response. Vaccines and disease prevention
strategies were critical to the pandemic response. Government spending on the vaccine rollout was $6.1 billion.8 It is
estimated COVID-19 vaccines reduced the pandemic’s economic toll on the Australian economy by $214 billion.9

The Australian Government is conducting a review of the policy and methods utilised to assess the value of
medicines (the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Methods and Policy Review). This review provides an avenue
for alignment on the Government’s ambition to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.

 The ‘value’ of vaccination
 Immunisation is described as ‘one of the best health investments money can buy’ by the WHO, underpinning
 global health security.10
 Australia’s assessment processes for medicines and vaccines place a lower value on a human life than similar
 countries overseas, and even than other government portfolios such as transportation. This means that the
 Government will not pay the same price for a medicine or vaccine that can extend life or improve quality of life
 with as other countries, or even itself with a road safety measure.
 Table 1: Value placed on life by policy area, Australia
        $400,000

        $350,000

        $300,000
   □
  .o;   $250,000
   a>
        $200,000

        $150,000

        $100,000
  a>
  7      $50,000

               $0
                         Vaccines          Medicines         Medicines         Transport          Transport     Regulatory
                                           (average)        (maximum)        (road fatality)     (pollution)     impact



        Source: Adapted from Cubi-Molla et al. 2021. Table 2 and Shawview Consulting. 2021.
        Valuing Vaccines: Ensuring Australia's access to vaccines today and tomorrow. p51 (vaccine threshold)




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                                          2
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                         GSK


Action: Secure Australians’ access to the health innovations to respond to a pandemic

Embedding mechanisms to support the rapid translation of innovation to access within Australia’s legislative, policy
and health sector environment is essential to preparing for future pandemics. The COVID-19 pandemic exposed
limitations within our health system. Public health and other legislation, systems and process aimed at translating
new research and real-world evidence into improved patient outcomes were not fit for purpose.

All levels of government, researchers, industry, guidelines developers, clinicians and the community worked
collaboratively to put in place measures that were needed in this emergency. The implementation of these measures
took significant effort, time, investment and not all access was equal for Australians. For example, while incidences
of COVID-19 were highest in major cities, the poorest health outcomes were experienced by those who lived in
regional and rural areas.11 Health literacy and limited access to health services are among the reasons for inequity
within these communities. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and Culturally and Linguistically Diverse
communities were also disproportionally impacted.12

In preparing for future known and unknown health challenges, the Government has an opportunity to establish
mechanisms to enable and support an emergency response. This section outlines four areas for action for how the
Government can boost its pandemic preparedness by securing Australians’ access to medical innovation.



•     Priority reimbursement pathways
The Australian Government deviated from its standard vaccine and medicine assessment processes to procure,
approve and rollout COVID-19 vaccines and treatments. GSK’s Xevudy® (sotrovimab) experience demonstrates
how the regulatory evaluation, cost-effectiveness assessment and clinical recommendations were conducted
efficiently with the community need at the centre.

With the HTA Methods and Policy Review underway, the Government has an opportunity to establish more flexible
and priority pathways for vaccines and medicines. ‘The New Frontier - Delivering better health for all Australians’
inquiry held by the Standing Committee on Health, Aged Care and Sport recommended that the National
Immunisation Program (NIP) should be reviewed with a view to reform “existing approaches used to value vaccines
to ensure early and rapid deployment of vaccines in Australia”.13 In its response, the Government noted that the NIP
is not intended to procure or deploy vaccines in emergencies.14 However, streamlined reimbursement pathways
capable of efficiently rolling out vaccines in response to non-emergency public health needs is closely linked to
Australia’s pandemic preparedness.

Once approved by the TGA, it takes an average of 466 days for medicines to be reimbursed in Australia.15 For
vaccines, the average is 1375 days from the time of TGA approval to it being listed on the NIP.16 If the COVID-19
vaccines had followed the standard process for funding to the NIP, they would not have been available to patients
for at least two years.17 Similarly Xevudy® (sotrovimab) would not have been available for approximately a year.

    Antimicrobial resistance: an emerging pandemic
    Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is global health emergency, recognised by the WHO as one of the top ten public
    health threats facing humanity.18 It is a known pandemic threat that could cause 10 million deaths by 2050.19

    AMR occurs when microorganisms such as bacteria become resistant to antimicrobial medicines. Discovery and
    development of new medicines will be critical to managing and responding to this health challenge.

    Countries such as the UK and Sweden have developed specialist reimbursement pathways to encourage the
    development and secured doses of novel antimicrobials for their populations. Australia’s National Antimicrobial
    Resistance Strategy 2020 and Beyond recommends a pathway to access for these medicines be established,
    however the way forward remains unclear.20




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                             3
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                            GSK


•       Nationally harmonised health workforce practicing to their scope of practice to meet
        community need
The COVID-19 pandemic placed an “enormous burden” on Australia’s health workforce and services.21 There was a
community need, and all levels of governments responded. Actions included development and implementation of the
Surge Workforce Program, expansion of telehealth services and expanded scope of practices.

Australia’s health system remains under significant pressure today. The pandemic is having an ongoing impact and
the demand on health services increases as our population ages. For example, Queensland hospitals have seen a
12.7 per cent increase in emergency department presentation since 2018-2019 (compared to 6.5 per cent population
growth).22

The Government can act now to best position Australia’s health workforces and services to deliver a more
sustainable health system and manage future pandemics by harmonising scope of practices nationally. The
Government is currently conducting the Unleashing the Potential of our Health Workforce - Scope of practice
review. The Government can use this review to ensure there is consistent scope of practice nationally which would
provide better access for patients, more flexibility within the workforce, improve access to health services for
Australians, and ensure our health professionals are better supported to utilise their skills and training.

    Pharmacist scope of practice
    Pharmacists are qualified, experienced and trusted health professionals. They are highly accessible and provide
    patients with access to vital medicines, health care services and support. Since August 2021, they have
    administered almost 10 million COVID-19 vaccine doses.23

    Each jurisdiction has its own scope of practice for pharmacists with clear inconsistencies. This results in equity of
    access and presents challenges in training and the quality use of medicines. This is particularly difficult with
    evolving practice which is common in pandemic response. The scope of practice for vaccinations demonstrates
    current fragmentation within the system:

    •    In NSW, a child aged five can be vaccinated for measles, mumps and rubella in a pharmacy without a script,
         but in Queensland, they must be 16 to be vaccinated and in South Australia, they must be 10.
    •    In the ACT, NSW, South Australia, Tasmania and Victoria a person over 50 can be vaccinated in pharmacy
         for shingles, but in the Northern Territory, Western Australia and Queensland a person cannot.
    •    Pharmacists in WA are able to deliver NIP vaccines, while pharmacists in the ACT, NSW, South Australia and
         Victoria can deliver private market vaccines as well as vaccines listed on the NIP.



•       Awareness and communications materials for the community and health professionals
Health literacy is essential to enabling patients, families and carers to understand and manage their health to
improve their quality of life and reduce the impact of disease.24

During the COVID-19 pandemic response we saw the impact of low English proficiency, education levels,
misinformation, passive government communications strategies, national inconsistency as well as limited access to
health services.25 To best prepare to manage future pandemics, a new approach to public health campaigns is
needed. Governments, the health sector - including the medicines industry - and community can work together to
ensure Australians have access to the right information, at the right time, presented in the right way. This is very
important Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and Culturally Linguistically Diverse Communities where COVID-19
and future pandemics can compound existing health inequities.




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                               4
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                        GSK


•    International collaboration
A pandemic is a worldwide spread of a new disease.26 A global outlook is needed to enhance our national
preparedness to manage future pandemics and ensure health security. This responsibility extends beyond the health
portfolio to areas of foreign affairs, defence, science, industry and environment.

GSK’s support to the Australian Government’s COVID-19 response relied on global mechanisms, such as disease
surveillance, horizon scans, reporting frameworks, harmonisation of clinical trials, supply chain networks, sharing of
data, and resources for increased efficiency and efficacy. Medicines research, development, manufacturing and
supply is conducted around the world. Australia does not and cannot operate in isolation.

For example, the supply chain for medicines is global in nature. Manufacturing sites - whether located in Australia or
not - rely on global supply chains to receive the active ingredients needed to manufacture medicines.27 As became
evident during the height of COVID-19, no country in the world can onshore the entire medicines supply chain.

Despite high global demand for Xevudy© (sotrovimab), GSK was able to work with the Government and our
international colleagues to secure the doses that Australia needed. For example, following the Omicron outbreak in
late-2021, an additional 45,000 doses of Xevudy© (sotrovimab) were secured and purchased by the Australian
Government with the Minister for Health the Hon Greg Hunt announcing the agreement on 3 January 2022.28 As a
global company with a well-established global network, GSK was well positioned to respond support Australia in its
COVID-19 pandemic response.

The Government has taken steps to encourage increased international collaboration. This includes the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) international engagement strategy, increased funding and partnerships via the
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade including the WHO and the Partnerships for a Health Region strategy,
however there is more to be done.



Conclusion

GSK Australia applauds the Government for looking to enhance national preparedness and response systems to
manage future pandemic events. This includes the establishment of the Australian CDC.

As a world leader in vaccine and treatments for communicable disease we would welcome the opportunity to expand
on the themes in this submission in this inquiry’s targeted stakeholder engagement in 2024.

GSK is proud to have partnered with the Australian Government to support Australia’s pandemic response by
providing COVID-19 early treatment Xevudy® (sotrovimab). Our experience was one of collaboration, with patients
and improved health outcomes at its centre.

The Government can act now to embed systems and processes reflective of this value to best position Australia to
manage known and unknown health challenges that are ahead. Investing to keep Australians well to prepare for any
pandemic and securing Australians’ access to medical innovations to respond to a pandemic are essential.



Contact

Eric Johnsson
Government Affairs and Policy Manager
GSK ______________________
Emailfl
Mobile®




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                           5
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                      GSK




References

1 Fisman, David. 2022. “Universal healthcare and the pandemic mortality gap”. PNAS. 119 (29) 62208032119:
https://doi.orq/10.1073/pnas.2208032119
2 GSK Australia. 2023. “Risk to Resilience”: https://au.qsk.com/media/6823/2003219 qsk-vaccineaccessreport-web-
version.pdf, p. 5
3 Ibid, p. 8
4 Australian Bureau of Statistics. 2023. “COVID-19 Mortality in Australia: Deaths registered until 30 September
2023”: https://www.abs.gov.au/articles/covid-19-mortality-australia-deaths-registered-until-30-september-2023
5 Australian Government. 2023. “2023 Intergenerational Report”: https://treasury.gov.au/publication/2023-
intergenerational-report, p. 143
6 World Health Organization. 2023. “Vaccines and immunization”: https://www.who.int/health-topics/vaccines-and-
immunization#tab=tab 1
7 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care. 2023. “Budget 2023-24: Health protection,
preventive health and sport: https://www.health.qov.au/sites/default/files/2023-10/health-protection-preventive-
health-and-sport-budqet-2023-24.pdf
8 Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. 2023. “Health system spending on the response to COVID-19 in
Australia 2019-20 to 2021-22”: https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/health-welfare-expenditure/health-svstem-spending-
on-the-response-to-covid-19/contents/summary
9 Fox, Nathan, Philip Adams, David Grainger, Jennifer Herz, and Carolyn Austin. 2022. "The Value ofVaccines: A
Tale of Two Parts". Vaccines 10, no. 12: 2057. https://doi.Org/10.3390/vaccines10122057
10 World Health Organization. 2023. “Vaccines and immunization”: https://www.who.int/health-topics/vaccines-and-
immunization#tab=tab 1
11 Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. 2023. “Rural and remote health”: https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/rural-
remote-australians/rural-and-re mote-health
12 Australian Bureau of Statistics. 2023. “COVID-19 Mortality in Australia: Deaths registered until 30 September
2023”: https://www.abs.gov.au/articles/covid-19-mortalitv-australia-deaths-registered-until-30-september-2023
13 House of Representatives Standing Committee on Health, Aged Care and Sport. 2021. ‘The New Frontier -
Delivering better health for all Australians”:
https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary Business/Committees/House/Health Aged Care and Sport/Newdrugs/Rep
ort, recommendation 18
14 Australian Government. 2023. “Australian Government response to the Standing Committee on Health, Aged Care
and Sport report’: https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-11/inguirv-into-approval-processes-for-new-
drugs-and-novel-medical-technologies-in-australia.pdf, p. 38
15 Medicines Australia. 2022. “Medicines Matter 2022: Australia’s Access to Medicines 2016-2021”:
https://www.medicinesaustralia.com.au/wp-content/uploads/sites/65/2023/04/Medicines-Matter-2022-FINAL.pdf, p. 9
16 GSK Australia. 2023. “Risk to Resilience”: https://au.gsk.com/media/6823/2003219 gsk-vaccineaccessreport-
web-version.pdf, p. 5
17 GSK Australia. 2023. “GSK Australia Submission: Health Technology Assessment Methods and Policy review
Consultation 1”: https://au.gsk.com/media/6833/health-technologv-assessment-methods-and-policy-review-gsk-
australia-submission.pdf
18 World Health Organization. 2023. “Antimicrobial resistance”: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-
sheets/detail/anti microbial-resistance
19 MTPConnect. 2020. “Fighting Superbugs: A report on the inaugural meeting of Australia’s antimicrobial resistance
stakeholders”: https://www.mtpconnect.org.au/images/mtpc fighting superbugs web 230920.pdf
20 Australian Government. 2019. “Australia’s National Antimicrobial Resistance Strategy - 2020 and beyond”:
https://www.amr.gov.au/resources/australias-national-antimicrobial-resistance-strategv-2020-and-beyond
21 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care, 2023. 'COVID-19 surge health workforce package”:
https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-surge-health-workforce-package




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                         6
COVID-19 Response Inquiry
GSK Submission - 15 December 2023                                                                    GSK




22 Queensland Audit Office. 2023. “Health 2023”: https://www.qao.qld.gov.au/reports-resources/reports-
parliament/health-2023
23 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care, COVID 19 Vaccine Roll-out update - 6 October
2023
24 Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. 2022. “Health literacy”: https://www.aihw.qov.au/reports/australias-
health/health-literacy
25 Independent Pandemic Management Advisory Committee. 2022. “Review of COVID-19 Communications in
Victoria”: https://www.health.vic.qov.au/sites/default/files/2022-09/review-COVID-19-communications-in-victoria-
ipmac.pdf
26 Health Direct. 2022. “What is a pandemic?”: https://www.healthdirect.qov.au/what-is-a-pandemic
27 Medicines Australia. 2023. “Medicines Manufacturing & Supply Chain is Robust and Complex”:
https://www.medicinesaustralia.com.au/wp-content/uploads/sites/65/2023/07/MA-Supply-Chain-IG-v7-WEB.pdf
28 Department of Health and Aged Care. 2022. “Melbourne press conference on 3 January on new sotrovimab units,
health programs, Indigenous smoking rates and vaccination rollout”: https://www.health.gov.au/ministers/the-hon-
greg-hunt-mp/media/melbourne-press-conference-on-3-january-on-new-sotrovimab-units-health-programs-
indigenous-smoking-rates-and-vaccination-rollout




GSK Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry                                                                       7
