     DEAKIN
     UNIVERSITY                                                                                Western Health




 Submission to the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet Commonwealth Government
                              COVID-19 Response Inquiry

                                     Associate Professor Danielle Hitch PhD
                  Faculty of Health, Deakin University & Allied Health Division, Western Health

Introduction
Thank you for the opportunity to contribute a submission to this Inquiry and share the findings of our ongoing
research into the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic to improve response measures for future pandemics. I
lead the Western Health COVID-19 Recovery Collaboration (WHCOVRE), and this submission incorporates co­
researchers contributions from academia, clinical practice, and lived experience.

In late 2020, a group of clinician researchers at Western Health became increasingly aware of patients
presenting with prolonged symptoms following COVID-19 infection. They initiated an informal multidisciplinary
network of clinicians, researchers, and people with lived experience to investigate this new syndrome (later
known as Long COVID) and develop guidance on best supporting these patients. The group evolved into the
Western Health COVID-19 Recovery Collaboration (WHCOVRE), now including members from multiple
institutions and diverse backgrounds. WHCOVRE has been an extraordinarily responsive and productive
collaboration and continues to work closely with lived experience experts in its ongoing research program.

Key Messages & Recommendations

All Terms of Reference

Recommendation 1: A shared vision for Australia's response to future pandemics.

    •    A shared vision would have multiple and significant benefits for Australia. A shared vision will ensure
         that all levels of government and local communities work towards a common goal and reduce
         inconsistent strategies that lead to confusion, ineffective measures, and increased transmission risk. A
         coherent national approach will enable more efficient resource allocation and build community trust
         and investment in public health measures. The vision and goals will also provide a framework for more
         flexible responses as community needs change and evolve, which balances public health needs with
         economic activity and productivity.
    •    The success of the vision and goals depends on their inclusiveness of diverse perspectives, which
         reflect all facets of modern Australia. Imposition from the 'top-down1 would fail to address a population
         issue that demands widespread participation and consensus. It would also amplify the social exclusion
         and health inequities bought so clearly to light during the COVID-19 pandemic.
    •    Social determinants of health and other contextual factors on pandemic experiences and outcomes for
         Australians must be integrated and embedded within vision and goals. As highlighted in our qualitative
         study of Long COVID lived experience1, the impacts of the pandemic extend far beyond the health
         sector because many have their origins in existing social issues and challenges.

Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns.

Recommendation 2: Increased funding for and access to allied health assessment and treatment.

    •    COVID-19 infection impacts all body systems and structures2, and the expertise of multiple allied health
         professionals is needed for optimal recovery. For example, our research demonstrates occupational
         therapy is highly valued by patients receiving rehabilitation following COVID-19 infection for its ability
         to improve their participation and productivity in daily life3. Assessment and treatment by a range of
         allied health professions is recommended by both Australian4 and World Health Organisation clinical
         practice guidelines5.
    •         People recovering from COVID-19 infection are not getting the rehabilitation and support they need to
         maximise their recovery and return to full function. Equitable access to allied health professions is a
     DEAKIN
     UNIVERSITY




         severe and persistent problem in Australia and is not unique to our pandemic response. Nor are allied
         health professions limited to working in clinical health settings - many are employed to support
         workers in other sectors like education, recreation, business, and trades. Medicare and private health
         insurance rebates are too small to provide professionals with a living wage, and there are extensive
         waiting lists for public allied health services (particularly in disadvantaged communities). Sustainable
         funding for the allied health workforce and investment in telehealth services are urgently needed to
         increase access in all communities.
    •    Building a better allied health workforce should be a priority in future pandemic planning. National
         allied health workforce shortages result from a need for more appropriately qualified practitioners and
         insufficient clinical placements6. We reiterate our recommendations to the recent Inquiry into Long
         COVID and Repeated COVID infections regarding the Allied Health Assistant (AHA) workforce. AHAs
         support allied health professionals by working within a specific scope of practice, including tasks
         delegated by an allied health clinician and regular supervision. Building a larger AHA workforce enables
         more efficient use of allied health professionals' expertise and could be achieved relatively quickly via
         the TAFE system. A strengthened allied health workforce would have widespread and cost-effective
         benefits for all Australians within and between pandemics.

Recommendation 3: Inclusion of carer needs and support in future pandemic responses.

    •    Unpaid carers are the backboneof the Australian economy, but Deloitte Access Economics7 identified
         an increasing and substantial deficit in informal care over the next seven years. The impact of Long
         COVID and other pandemic challenges has a ripple effect far beyond the infected patient. As described
         by one of our research participants: "Just the load on my family, on my husband. He works all day and
         half the night and half the weekend anyway, and normally travels. But [now] he is my son's primary
         carer, and he does the shopping and the cooking and he does everything. He's done an amazing job for
         eight months, but in the last couple of weeks I'm starting to see he's making mistakes". There are also
         many studies demonstrating the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on unpaid carers for Australians
         with existing conditions and disabilities (e.g.810).
    •    Women are particularly disadvantaged by a lack of support for carers during pandemics. Many are
         'compound' carers, informal carers with pre-existing caring responsibilities for multiple family
         members or loved ones11. Public health measures led to many Australian women taking on remote
         learning responsibilities for their children. Given that 76.3% of the Australian healthcare workforce is
         female12, they also shouldered much of the formal or paid carer burden of the COVID-19 pandemic.
    •    Carers are, therefore, crucial stakeholders in developing future pandemic responses. Unpaid carers
         must be invited to co-produce the vision, goals and strategies designed to improve Australia's
         pandemic response to minimise the widespread impact of these events on the community.

Financial support for individuals

Recommendation 4: Recognition of post viral syndromes as a disability.

    •    There is evidence that post viral syndromes can become a long-term disability for some people. Our
         research identified that 86% of Australians with Long COVID experience reduced functional capacity
         and diminished ability to participate in daily life13. Many of the lived experience experts who have
         worked with WHCOVRE continue to experience significant disability almost four years after their
         COVID-19 infection. Survivors of the 2002-2003 SARS outbreak experienced psychological distress and
         post-traumatic stress for years after their infection14, with another study finding only 12.7% had
         returned to work after 15 years15. A recent large COVID-19 study16 also found that 25% of functional
         issues and disability for people who were not hospitalised during their acute infection experienced re­
         emergence of disabling symptoms at two years, indicating a long-term risk horizon for this virus.
    •    Uncertainty about symptom duration is a barrierto accessing disability support and protection. While
         many people eventually recover, there is a widespread misconception this occurs in all cases.
         Conditions must be considered permanent before being considered disabilities under the National
         Disability Insurance Scheme17. Therefore, people with post-viral syndromes (like myalgic encephalitis /
     DEAKIN
    UNIVERSITY                                                                                Western Health



        chronic fatigue syndrome and Long COVID) rarely qualify for support3*. The same issue also impacts
        access to the protections afforded by the Disability Discrimination Act 1992. Without access to existing
        avenues for disability support, people with post-viral syndrome cannot receive the financial,
        therapeutic and workplace support they need to return to productive activities and maximise their
        financial circumstances.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of populations

Recommendation 5: Shifting from categorical to intersectional, integrated, and personalised approaches.

    •   Future pandemic responses should include policies and practices that address multiple, overlapping
        forms of discrimination and disadvantage wherever possible. A categorical approach to targeting
        responses for priority populations overlooks the complexities and nuances of individual identity and
        experiences. Addressing single aspects of identity may also lead to duplication of services and supports,
        as supports are designed and delivered to meet the needs of a single group. Many challenges and
        barriers are shared across multiple priority populations.
    •        An integrated, intersectional approach is needed to match the complexity of pandemics.
        IntersectionaIity describes how different aspects of a person's identity intersect in complex ways, and
        how the interconnections between theml9 shape individual experiences of discrimination or inequity.
        As noted in our Perspectives paper for the Medical Journal of Australia20, pandemic policies and
        strategies must recognise marginalised populations' multiple and complex disadvantages and co­
        produce solutions with community members with lived experience. This would require integrating
        health and social responses (under a shared vision) and embracing the full spectrum of care (including
        tangible strategies for prevention, early intervention, treatment, and long-term management).
    •   A solution that provides personalised support already exists. In our work at WHCOVRE, Australians with
        Long COVID have emphasised their desire for personalised care and support time and time again.
        WHCOVRE developed the COVid reCOVeRY Model of Care (DisCOVeRY-MoC) with six Long COVID
        consumers in late 202121. The model includes streams for people with mild, moderate, and clinically
        significant disability arising from their COVID-19 infection and prioritises the use of pre-existing
        supports in their local community. A specially developed algorithm uses the person's responses to a
        patient-rated outcome measure (the COVID Check-In) to formulate a written guide for patients and
        their healthcare providers. This report identifies services and supports that address their unique
        symptom profile and self-management strategies to help patients maximise their functional abilities.
        For example, a woman from a culturally and linguistically diverse community would receive gender and
        culturally-appropriate guidance. To the best of our knowledge, the DisCOVeRY-MoC is the only Long
        COVID model of care co-designed with consumers, and we aim to make it freely available on the
        internet by mid-2024.

Conclusion
 n conclusion, our research highlights the need for a cohesive, inclusive, and multifaceted approach to
improving response measures for future pandemics. We advocate for a shared vision for Australia's pandemic
response, increased funding and access to allied health services, action on carer support needs, recognition of
post-viral syndromes as a disability, and the development of pandemic responses that recognise the diversity
and complexity of lived experience and systemic impacts. We wish the independent panel and task force every
success in their work on this vital task.
                                                     A/Prof Danielle Hitch

                                                  On behalf of WHCOVRE
     DEAKIN
     UNIVERSITY




References

1.        Hitch D, Defein E, Lloyd M, Rasmussen B, Haines K and Garnys E. Beyond the case numbers: Social
determinants and contextual factors in patient narratives of recovery from COVID-19. Australian and New
Zealand Journal of Public Health. 2023; 47: 100002.
2.        Hitch D, Pepin G, Nicola-Richmond K and Watchorn V. Enabling and optimsing recovery from COVID-
19: A handbook for health professionals and other caregivers of people with Long COVID. Pressbooks 2023.
3.        Scott H, Neale S, Harrington E, Hodgson H and Hitch D. Occupational Therapy Practice for Post-Acute
COVID-19 Inpatients Requiring Rehabilitation. Research Square (Pre-Print) 2023:
https://doi.Org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3439429/vl.
4.        National Covid-19 Clinical Evidence Taskforce. Australian guidelines for the clinical care of people with
COVID-19 2023.
5.        World Health Organisation. Clinical management of COVID-19: Living Guideline. Geneva: World
Health Organisation 2022.
6.        AHP Workforce. 12 Strategies to address allied health workforce shortages 2023.
7.        Deloitte Access Economics. The value of informal care in 2020. 2020.
8.        Cook M, Dwyer R, Kuntsche S, Callinan S and Pennay A. 'I'm not managing it; it's managing me': a
qualitative investigation of Australian parents' and carers' alcohol consumption during the COVID-19
pandemic. Drugs: Education, Prevention and Policy. 2022; 29: 308-16.
9.        Edge R, Meyers J, Tiernan G, et al. Cancer care disruption and reorganisation during the COVID-19
pandemic in Australia: A patient, carer and healthcare worker perspective. PLoS One. 2021; 16: e0257420.
10.       Correia H, Martin-Lynch P, Finlayson M and Learmonth YC. Exploring COVID-19 experiences for
persons with multiple sclerosis and carers: An Australian qualitative study. Health Expect. 2023; 26: 785-94.
11.       Perkins EA and Haley WE. Compound caregiving: When lifelong caregivers undertake additional
caregiving roles. Rehabilitation Psychology. 2010; 55: 409-17.
12.       Anderson S, Saar E, Evans J, et al. Demographic changes in Australia's regulated health professions: 6-
year trends. Aust Health Rev. 2023; 47: 246-53.
13.       WHCOVRE. Functional performance and quality of life for people with Long COVID. Victorian Long
COVID conference. Melbourne 2023.
14.       Gardner P and Moallef P. Psychological impact on SARS survivors: Critical review of the English
language literature. Canadian Psychology/Psychologie canadienne. 2015; 56: 123-35.
15.       Zhang P, Li J, Liu H, et al. Long-term bone and lung consequences associated with hospital-acquired
severe acute respiratory syndrome: a 15-year follow-up from a prospective cohort study. Bone Res. 2020; 8: 8.
16.       Bowe B, Xie Y and Al-Aly Z. Postacute sequelae of COVID-19 at 2 years. Nature Medicine. 2023.
17.       National Disability Insurance Scheme. Do you meet the disability requirements? 2023.
18.       Emerge Australia. Submission to the Independent Review of the National Disability Insurance Scheme.
2023.
19.       Crenshaw K. Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence against Women of
Color (1994). Violence against women: Classic papers. Auckland, New Zealand: Pearson Education New
Zealand, 2005, p. 282-313.
20.       de Leeuw E, Yashadhana A and Hitch D. Long COVID: Sustained and multiplied disadvantage. Medical
Journal of Australia. 2022; 216: 222-4.
21.       Hitch D, Holton S, Garnys E, et al. DisCOVeRY: A co-designed and evidence informed model of care for
people with Long Covid. 22nd International Conference on Integrated Care (ICIC22). Odense, Denmark2022.
