Some years back I had an adverse reaction to a previous (common) vaccine which I reported to the
vaccine injury board. It was horrendous to have suffered from such a vaccine. There was NO WAY
that I was going to risk this again. So I refused to be vaccinated with the covid injection. It is a
disgrace that I was being strongly coerced to take an experimental drug, even though I already had
such a history with vaccines. I still refused.

During the 'covid' narrative, those that chose not to be injected with an experimental drug were
highly penalised and treated as if they were diseased, and became outcasts of society. We were
banned from shops, businesses, and all social activities. We were even banned from church. This is
nothing short of communistic control.

Yet the injections proved not to be affective at all. Almost all got covid after all. My husband and I
were not vaccinated with the experimental covid injection.

When the talk of a covid injection first came out, I spent weeks reading through all the TGA
documents on the safety and effectiveness of the covid injections. Even on the TGA website it stated
that there was a lack of safety data, short and long term. What I read on the TGA website, DID NOT
line up with what the politicians were saying. The TGA did not indicate that it was either safe or
effective. The TGA had numerous sentences that indicated that this had not been properly tested.
As the months went by I also noticed that they information on the TGA website kept changing. This
was to keep up with the narrative that the Government was so desperate to push.

My husband lost his job, even though he was working with NDIS patients who desperately needed
their bathrooms modified. It was a disgrace that these people were left unaided. Many had waited
months if not years for their bathrooms to became usable for them.

Not only for the clients, but my husband lost all ability to work to earn a living. This is a crime.
Nothing short of criminal.

Restricting us all to a 5 k limit and locking us into our homes was an overreaction.

If the government had done some research during the 'pandemic', they would have soon realised
that there were many Drs around the world who were successfully treating covid with highly
effective drugs and supplements such as Ivermectin, Vit C,D antihistamines, Zinc, Quercetin, etc.
These were making the world of difference. Yet these same Drs, became vilified and even lost their
positions and credibility. Those safe and effective drugs and supplements that were making so much
difference were banned and ridiculed. This is nothing short of murder on the Governments part. So
many deaths could have been prevented had these simple and effective medicines and supplements
been allowed and used. Or even the use of them discussed. The way the Government handled this
was not science or medicine. It was dictatorship. Proper Science and medicine allow for open
discussion.

Data from around the world show an increase of deaths over the 5 year average. Since the vaccines
were introduced. This really needs to be looked at carefully and the question asked 'WHY."

A proper Royal Commission is needed. I just hope that those elected to oversea this Royal
Commission are not the foxes that guarded the hen house over all these years of this covid
narrative.
