COVID-19 Government Response enquiry submission.

Author:
Dr Rohan Baker, PhD
Senior Principal Research Scientist
Genetic Signatures Ltd
7 Eliza Street
Newtown NSW 2042


www.geneticsignatures.com

Dear Ms Kruk, Professor Bennett, and Dr Jackson,

Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission to the COVID-19 Government
Response enquiry.

I am submitting under the term of reference:
Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and
transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and support for specific industries).

Background:
I am the Senior Principal Research Scientist for the Australian clinical diagnostics
company Genetic Signatures Ltd (ASX: GSS). We manufacture clinical diagnostic
kits in Sydney, for sale to public and private pathology laboratories in Australia and
overseas. These kits are based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detection of
pathogen DNA/RNA in clinical samples. Accordingly, we developed a PCR kit for
SARS-CoV-2 detection very early in the pandemic, and I was personally heavily
involved in the R&D, validation and production of these kits, and hand-delivered the
first batch of PCR kits on 05 March 2020 to one of our customers (public pathology
lab) in Sydney. In the following years our company made a mammoth effort to keep
up with demand for these kits, and also continually improve their performance and
ensure they gave sensitive and accurate detection of all the SARS-CoV-2 variants as
they arose. I am proud to say that we never let our pathology lab customers down
during the whole period of COVID-19 PCR testing in Australia, both in terms of
supply of kits, and kit performance. However, it was a hard period for the following
reasons:

(1) Supply issues getting raw materials into Australia. PCR relies on synthetic DNA
molecules (we call primers and probes). Sadly, Australia lost the ability to
manufacture these at scale on-shore several years before COVID-19. Demand went
up dramatically world-wide for PCR reagents, and most companies favoured their
own local clients, at the expense of places like Australia. Thus Australia must have
the capability to manufacture synthetic DNA primers and probes on-shore. Further,
this capability needs to be able to be rapidly scaled up as required. This will avoid
delays with both the manufacture of such materials, as well as delays in freight to
Australia when international flights greatly diminish when borders close. I understand
that the National Measurement Institute (NMI) has been tasked with investigating this
capability, but it must be rapidly put in place.
(2) We had great difficulty importing standard materials (ie the inactivated SARS-
CoV-2 virus itself) into Australia due to quarantine/AQIS/DAFF import permit
regulations. Such material is essential to both develop a molecular diagnostic test,
and determine performance specifications/quality control for the said test. While
import restrictions are a critical part of Australia’s quarantine system, there must be
some flexibility under conditions such as the COVID-19 pandemic, whereby such
material can be both safely imported, and then rapidly disseminated to relevant
parties; companies such as ourselves, and also pathology laboratories, to use as an
in-house standard material. Inactivation of pathogens (such as the SARS-CoV-2
virus) is a routine procedure, and such inactivated material can be safely imported
from reputed suppliers, such as the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC).
Alternatively, such standards can be developed on-shore, which the NMI eventually
did, but such material needs to be made available in a more timely manner, to allow
rapid development of urgently needed diagnostic kits.

(3) We are a small Australian company, and had to invest heavily into large amounts
of primers and probes (and other items required for PCR such as enzyme mixes and
the reagents to purify the nucleic acids). The Department of Health had on many
occasions suggested a repayable grant would be made available to allow our
company to buy these reagents at scale with confidence. This grant never
materialised, even though the COVID-19 taskforce told us it had been approved.
There was a great risk that the reagents we purchased would be wasted if SARS-
CoV-2 was a short-lived outbreak, such as its predecessor SARS-CoV-1, and our
company would have been placed under considerable financial pressure. Our
company has the skillset and ability to pivot and respond quickly, however some
form of repayable grant would significantly de-risk this process for our company.
Similarly, with support, our company could have made many more tests, rather than
importing them as the government supported Minderoo to do.

I would be happy to provide more specifics if required.

Yours sincerely,

Rohan Baker, PhD.
