Issues with the management of Covid response:

1. The prevalence of Covid initially was not of pandemic proportions. In that first year the flu
   disappeared - and in its place was the count of Covid deaths. This was lower than the usual
   annual death count for flu deaths. Also - in that year the MSM would report the deaths from
   Covid each night and 99% of them were over the age of 80 - they should never have even
   been reported as we are dealing with life expectancy - most of which were often well over the
   usual life expectancy. I personally did not know one person who had covid, nor did anyone I
   know, know anyone who had covid. It wasn’t till AFTER the mandated injection that covid
   really took off. I know so many people who have been vaccinated who came down with a
   serious case of the flu (covid) and they no doubt passed it on to all around them. The cry of
   ‘but I’d have been so much worse if I hadn’t been vaccinated’ became the catch phrase.
   Prove this please. I tested positive for covid and was no sicker then those who were
   vaccinated. Has there ever been a count of deaths from covid in the unvaccinated?? It was
   a campaign of Fear - this was one of the crimes of the time and instead of creating fear -
   it could have been focused more on how to stay healthy, how to boost ones immune
   system, what to do if unwell - including alternative health - natural therapies, rest and
   don’t socialise till well again, etc.

2. There is no getting away from the fact that the MRNA Covid injections were and are an
experiment. There is no way that they could have had the usual years of safety tests and it’s
impossible for them to have undergone any longitudinal studies. We were told they were being
made at ‘warp speed’. For an intelligent race - to inject the entire human race with something
developed at ‘warp speed’ with so little time to observe its impact, seems to be an insane and
highly dangerous thing to do. Not only that - these were being developed by companies that

                                                assume there is only one fix - every body is
different and especially when there is risk of harm involved (and there was huge risk
involved) there MUST BE CHOICE.

3. Big Pharma are deemed free from liability - so if you’re injured, they will take no responsibility.
Change this - Big Pharma need to be liable for injuries or fatalities incurred.

4. The PCR test that was used to diagnose Covid,                                         deemed
an unreliable and unsatisfactory tool to use for such purpose^^^^^^^^sai^haHhis PCR test
was not made to detect any type of infectious disease. It’s designed to pick up a signature of DNA
and RNA of the person being tested.” https://fuIIfact.org/onIine/pcr-test- ^^^J People know
when they are sick. One didn’t need a dubious test to tell them they were sick. The PCR
test added to the fear.

5. Creative doctors who were wanting to assist their sick patients, discovered that certain long
approved and off patent medications (therefore cheap and effective), were proving to be helpful.
These medicines were suddenly banned and taken off the market. Ivermectin was one of these
and it was demonised by the MSM - saying it was a horse tranquilliser, yet it is used widely by
humans all around the world and has been for a long time. Let doctors and scientists do their
job and enable them to use their knowledge, wisdom and experience to guide them to find
creative solutions. Respect the Doctor/patient relationship with an understanding that
different things suit different people. One size fits all is dangerous in medicine as we all
have different body chemistry.

6. Expert and highly regarded doctors and scientists who had serious concerns and were
attempting to warn us of pending issues, were targets of smear campaigns, ridiculed, censored
and had their careers destroyed
Create an atmosphere of safety and respect to encourage and allow robust discussion of
findings. Welcome input from a large range of experts.

7. AHPRA’s behaviour. This agency silenced all medical practitioners - doctors, nurses, etc - by
threatening them with de-registration if they were to question the government narrative in any
way. Many left their profession - hence the huge understaffing issues our ‘health’ sector is
dealing with. Again - doctors and medical people should feel safe to express and share their
observations and findings. They too should have choice - they should never be coerced
into taking medication.

8. The hate campaign waged on anyone who questioned the narrative. The label Anti-vaxer
became associated with being selfish, not caring for grandma, a bit crazy - then far right, |
racist - you name it - they were the outcasts. Anyone who was critically thinking this through and
seeing very concerning trends was demonised. So many people lost friends and family through
the division created by the government directed MSM narrative. Embrace different ways of
thinking about health and do not demonise people for questioning or viewing things
differently.

9. Through out the entire ‘campaign’ MSM never addressed promoted how you could boost your
immune system and help yourself stay healthy. Things that do help us stay well such as getting
out in the sunshine, exercising and socialising were actively taken away from the people. It was
never about actual Health. Promote HEALTH - exercise, healthy diet, sunshine, being out in
nature, mental health practices such as meditation etc.

10. To cover any obvious injuries by the injection, it was deemed that you weren’t actually
vaccinated until 2-3 weeks after having the jab. Hence - deaths and adverse reactions that
followed closely after having the jab and therefore easier to link the cause, weren’t counted.
Honest reporting of adverse reactions immediately after receiving the injection - and if there
is harm - STOP THE ROLLOUT!

11. The TGA made it very difficult for doctors to upload patients who’d been harmed by the jab.
Reporting adverse reactions should have been a very easy process - and should have been
encouraged.

12. Those harmed or died are not taken seriously. There have been organised public silent
demonstrations called ‘The Forest of the Fallen’ - that attempts to educate and give a voice to all
the injured or fatalities - you never see this making MSM news. Air a large range of peoples
stories so the public know what is happening.

13. As the outspoken doctors and scientists warned - we are seeing a huge increase in ‘turbo’
cancers, heart issues, blood clotting issues, strokes, deaths (SADS) etc. The MSM never links the
possibility for the increases in these to the injection. Given the excessive increase in mortality
and illnesses and that the only thing that is really different is that people have had multiple
injections of an experiment - join the dots and BE HONEST. This should throw enough
suspicion, at the very least, to STOP THE ROLLOUT!

14. There has been a 17% increase in the annual mortality rate since the mandated jab -
something you’d expect would be automatically and thoroughly investigated. However, it was put
to the vote in the senate, and MP’s voted against conducting a royal commission into the excess
deaths - one can only imagine why!
Clearly a royal commission into the reasons for the excess mortality rate by an independent
expert body with no conflicts of interest, needed to happen. Also -1 longitudinal studies
needs to be set up to particularly follow different groups of people ie - especially women
who were pregnant when they received the jab (has there been an increase in miscarriages,
still births, health of the babies); women who were breast feeding when they received the
jab; and children who received the jab. Monitoring the health of these babies and children
over a period of time should be telling.
NOTE - Because the government refused to investigate the reasons for our excess deaths,
a group of Australian Doctors who have formed AMPS (Australian Medical Professionals
Society) have released a book titled ‘Too Many Dead’, which is an inquiry into Australia’s
excess mortality. Here is the link to the ebook:
https://8630368.fs1 .hubspotuserGontent^nal .net/hubfs/SBSOSSS/Lite Too-Many-
Dead-PDF-with-Cover-MQ-16112023%20(2).pdf
15. There were so many things that didn’t make sense eg. On ANZAC Day in 2021: Melbourne’s
Dawn Service at the Shrine of Remembrance has been capped at 1,400 people and the CBD
Parade has been capped at 5,500 marchers. Attendees are required to apply online and will be
approved on a first-come, first-served basis. Yet - that very same day, there were 80,000 allowed
at the MCG to watch the football. Other things like Coles and Woolworths could stay open to
trade, but the independent butcher and fruit and veg shops couldn’t! What can I say!

16. The outright lies (Trust the Science - and - It’s safe and effective!), lack of balance and
emission of truth by the MSM on their reporting of such things as the accurate numbers of
protestors, the police brutality and shameful treatment of their fellow Australians who were trying
to stand up to what could only be called, Tyranny, the omission of reporting the other side (the
concerns) and slanting it so it was as if they were the enemy, etc. Real journalism needs to
come back - where they are interested in reporting the Truth - not reporting in a way that
serves to support the government narrative.

17. There was a blanket amount of money given to people who couldn’t work. This meant you
had students living at home with their parents, who were used to getting paid a couple of hundred
dollars a week from their part time job, suddenly bringing in $750. I know^^^^^^^^^^f
managed to save $20,000 over covid. While a family of 5 whose parents couldn’t work were
suddenly trying to live on $750 a week - clearly not enough to cover a mortgage/rent, food etc.
Look at individual situations and give accordingly. Better still - don’t take their work away.

18. Many people are dealing with horrendous adverse reactions - and are not getting any
financial support. If harm has been done through the mandating of a toxic experimental
injection and they can no longer work or live life the way they used to - DO THE RIGHT
THING and pay their medical bills and cost of living.

19. Masks, social distancing, lockdowns, mandates - none of it made the slightest bit of
difference to the actual spread. Lockdowns destroyed small business and many, many peoples
livelihoods. It has changed our society forever, with people now choosing to work from home - at
the expense of social contact, which is so important for our mental health. Children’s education
has been hugely impacted - and children in general have been very adversely effected by the
whole ordeal. The management has caused an untold mental health crisis for many.- with
suicides being the ultimate cost. These costs far outweighed any benefits of the pandemic
measures. Again - the extent of the harm caused across many sectors - career loss, mental
health, financial stresses, general health - eg on going health issues?, suicide rate over this
time needs to be fully investigated by an independent reputable body that has no conflicts
of interest.


ENSURE WE EXIT THE W.H.O. - we do not want to be told how we must manage a health
crisis by a foreign global body.

I believe we also need to address how we view health. We are blessed with an amazing
immune system that is designed to go into action when it encounters something new in its
environment. While it is fighting this foreign body we may feel unwell - that tells us we need
to rest and look after ourselves while our body does its thing. Next time it encounters this
same thing in the environment - it knows what to do and we don’t experience the unwell
feelings.

Having a human body means that you will sometimes experience illness - and that’s ok.
The more we look after ourselves - the less likely we are to get sick in the first place.


It is unconscionable that the covid injection is still being given and actively promoted. This
injection has caused enormous harm and the rollout of this injection needs to be STOPPED
IMMEDIATELY.
