My name is                             I have been a High School Teacher for 12 years now. I teach
Design Technology; my department subject is a very practical and hands on area of education. Due to
the nature of this subject and Workplace Health and Safety, there is a maximum of 24 students per
class for safety reasons. The rooms that I teach in are a reasonable size making it easy to maintain a
reasonable distance from students if need be. This was advantageous for social distancing during the
early part of the Covid 19 outbreak.

The Education sector was mandated to have the first two Covid 19 injections in order to keep the
vulnerable people safe from contracting Covid 19 from the people that had not received the Covid 19
injections. I did not receive either of these injections because I have a                         and
had heard that these injections had side effects that affect the heart. It was public knowledge that
after a period of time each injection lost its effectiveness, this would mean that someone that had
not kept up with the regime of injections would have been deemed to be just as the same as
someone that had not had any injections.

Because of my reluctance to except the injections I was suspended without pay for the first Semester
of 2022. I was told that because I had refused to follow an order by the Director of Education to have
this medical procedure, I was not permitted to enter the school grounds as an employee
^^^^^^^■This was for the benefit of the vulnerable people, the students. However these same
vulnerable students were permitted to go anywhere they wanted to go before and after school, so if I
were to be at school with them I would not have posed any more a threat to them than anyone else
they had contact with in public.

During this same time of being suspended without pay, I managed to gain employment as a School
Bus driver. I drove several bus routes before being assigned a more regular route that I drove for
several months until I resumed my roll as a School Teacher. My role as a Bus Driver also required me
to drive Chartered trips for schools and the public, both children and adults. I drove various different
size buses; the maximum size was a 72 seat bus. I drove this 72 seat bus for the school route that I
did for the most of my time as a Bus Driver. I was never asked if I had had the Covid 19 injections, and
I was not required to wear a mask.

During this time as a Bus Driver I did not contract the Covid 19 virus, in fact I have not had the Covid
19 virus at all.

During this time, since 30th November 2021 to the end of Semester one of 2022 I received emails
giving me instructions from the Department of Education. I was asked to submit information, this I
did promptly after each request. Occasionally I sent emails asking questions, these were never
answered, except one requesting access to my sick leave for a medical procedure. Because of the
inhumane way I was treated, I felt ostracized and poorly treated. This lead to a decline in my mental
health, to the point that I felt that I needed to seek professional help.

I did contact a mental health professional from "Lifeworks" that was recommended and paid for by
the Department of Education. I found it a bit ironic that the people that had caused my problem
were providing me with help to deal with my problem.

If the decision to suspend Education staff was not bad enough, the Department then sort to inflict
further punishment upon its staff by reducing the pay rate for a period of 20 weeks.

Not one of the actions taken by the Department of Education had any positive outcomes toward
preventing any spread of the Covid 19 virus. These actions caused more harm to the Department of
Education Employees in their mental health and financial security, and unrest to the students due to
staff shortage. Because of the shortage of teaching staff, the students had their education disrupted
for the first Semester of 2022, this would have had a significant impact on the Senior students in
their final stages of their education.

The correspondence I received from the Department of Education referred to the school grounds
and the school setting in general as a "High Risk Setting", if this is the case, what would a School bus
be classified as? Also during this period of time Suncorp Stadium was reopened for business as usual,
Suncorp Stadium holds a maximum crowd of 52,000 people. Did the Covid 19 virus have certain
limitations in certain densely populated places? Or was the Science just not taken into consideration
when there was a lot of money at stake?

In summary, I would suggest that the people making decisions could have possibly done a lot better
if they had studied the Science and the facts before forcing their own ideas upon the people that had
their lives uprooted and disrupted in such a negative way for very little effect in combatting the Covid
19 virus.

My role as a Design Technology Teacher is to teach students to analyse and apply critical thinking. I
was punished because I applied what I teach in stead of blindly following orders to take a medical
procedure that had not been proven to be safe or effective.

My belief is that no one should have powers to force other people to take part in a medical
procedure. By mandating a medical procedure, especially one that has not been proven to be safe
and effective is just a form of bullying and intimidation. This needs to stop. This was addressed after
the Second World War by the Nuremberg code.

The Nuremberg code was greatly ignored by all concerned except the people that had restrictions
placed upon them for not excepting the direction to take the Covid 19 injections. In the
correspondence I received from the Department, it was stated that my Human Rights were not
contravened. Again the Nuremberg code was greatly ignored, this code states that no one should be
forced or coerced into participating in a medical procedure against their will.

The mandates and the Covid 19 injections did not stop the virus. This was proven when the
International Boarders were open to the travellers that had the first two injections and had a
negative Covid 19 test result. The Omicron strain of Covid 19 was not detected in Australia until the
overseas travellers started arriving, this proved that the measures in place clearly did not work.

I have attached the following documents to support my claims.

    •        22-01-10 - Notice of suspension.
    •        22-01-11 - re-Notice of Suspension.
    •        Decision on 20 week pay cut.
    •        Reference

Regards
