 ®ANZICS
                                                     Intensive Care Response to the
                              Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                                           15th December 2023

                             The Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Society (ANZICS)


About Us
The Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Society is a member-based, bi-national organisation and a leading
advocate for the intensive care sector. The Society's diverse service portfolios include clinical quality registries, clinical
research, professional advocacy and facilitation of health initiatives in resource-limited locations.

ANZICS is appropriate to represent the interests of clinicians providing care for critically ill patients in Australia and
provide the following recommendations based on collective lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic.

It was apparent in early 2020, based on observations from international experience, that intensive care capacity and
capability in Australia would be vital to the health of the Australian community throughout the COVID pandemic. This
proved correct, with significant strain placed on intensive care services and clinical staff. ANZICS was a key stakeholder in
the early development of COVID-19 guidelines, recognising the lack of capacity and the potential for vulnerable
populations, in particular how Indigenous Australians were to be affected.

Despite this, due to effective public health measures and the quality of intensive care services in Australia, the clinical
outcomes for critically ill COVID-19 patients were world-leading. However, the effect on the system was significant,
decreasing capacity to care for patients with other acute conditions or awaiting major elective surgery. For some non-
COVID-19 patient groups, clinical outcomes were worse during the COVID-19 pandemic.


Daily census of ICU Patients in Australia with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 in Australia


             Other suspected or confirmed COVID-19      COVID-19 Pneumonitis


              500




        5     300
        ■C



        °     200
        E
        z     100

                 0
KEY LESSONS LEARNED

   1.       Australia had excellent outcomes for COVID patients.

        The quality of intensive care services in Australia has long been recognised as world-leading, particularly in
        terms of clinical training, workforce capability and patient outcomes, and this was demonstrated during the
        COVID-19 pandemic.

   2.   Collaboration between the federal government and the intensive care clinical teams was vital to the success
        of the Intensive Care Response.

        During the pandemic, an ad-hoc collaboration between the federal government and the intensive care
        community was formed, specifically via meetings with the deputy CMO and intensive care clinical leads. This
        enabled effective shared understanding of the issues facing both the clinicians and the federal government. This
        committee has been disbanded, and there is currently no equivalent in place moving forward to advise the
        federal government on issues relating to intensive care, particularly as it relates to pandemic preparedness.

   3.   There was extreme strain placed on the intensive
        care workforce, particularly in NSW and Victoria.                       Australian ICU Tertiary Occupancy 2023
                                                                 100%

        High levels of burnout and stress were reported by
        intensive care staff both during and after the            90%


        COVID-19 pandemic. The cause of this strain was
        predominately the lack of capacity in the intensive       80%



        care system, which operates at close to 100%
                                                                  70%
        capacity continuously in Australia. Therefore, when
        expanded intensive care services were required to
                                                                  60%

        meet the COVID demand, the workforce demands
        on skilled staff were unsustainable. Workforce            50% —
                                                                     Jan 2023     Mar 2023   May 2023   Jul 2023   Sep 2023   Nov 2023

        strain for intensive care is a national problem but is
        most severe in regional and rural ICUs, which are
        often reliant on fly-in and fly-out intensivists who
        also work in metropolitan and tertiary centres.

   4.   The lack of capacity in the intensive care system meant that with the impact of COVID-19 there were worse
        outcomes for non-COVID19 critically ill patients.

        Evidence suggests there was a rise in-hospital mortality among people admitted to Australian ICUs with
        conditions other than COVID19 from March 2021, which reversed the improvement of the preceding five years.
        Specific changes that may have contributed to increased mortality include system-level factors, such as the
        withdrawal of strain mitigation strategies (e.g., staff redeployment), increased demand for ICU services, and
        changes in the availability of experienced staff following losses to burnout or leave, https://doi.org/10.56

   5.      Inconsistency in advice for infection prevention denied staff a safe working environment.

        Particularly in the early stages of the pandemic, there was a lack of clarity in the national infection control advice
        for COVID19, and this problem was replicated at a state level. Therefore, the ICU community released its own
        infection control guidelines for COVID19. This was published in March 2020 and was highly valued by clinicians.
        There were four iterations of the guideline over the course of the pandemic.

   6.   Implementation of a national ICU data platform (CHRIS), as funded by the federal government, was key to
        enabling safe ICU provision, as was the use of existing intensive care data platforms.
       Existing intensive care data platforms and systems enabled the collection of data to allow real-time visibility of
       activity and resources. Examples of these include the ANZICS CORE database and the CHRIS platform.

       ANZICS CORE: The ANZICS Centre for Outcome and Resource Evaluation (CORE) Clinical Registry proved to be
       pivotal early in the pandemic. The registry was identified as the most reliable source of information to inform
       national ICU planning and gain a clear understanding of intensive care resources and constraints. The
       responsive and collaborative nature of the ICU community was reflected in the ability of ANZICS to meet the
       request of the Australian Government Department of Health to measure intensive care surge capacity.

       Over the COVID19 pandemic, ANZICS collaborated closely with Jurisdictional and Commonwealth Health
       Departments and other data agencies to provide accurate insights about the activity and outcomes not only of
       patients with COVID-19 (surveillance, levels of vaccination, ICU demand) but also the overall impact on all
       critically ill patients and on the health care system more broadly. Summary highlights of the <NZIC           9VID
       Report January 2020 to September 2022 are:

           -   Between 01/01/2020 and 30/09/2022, there were 9,928 patients who had 10,340 admissions to 140
               out of 173 ICUs in Australia with suspected or confirmed COVID-19.
           -   These patients accounted for 72,141 ICU bed days. This is equivalent to almost 200 ICU beds filled with
               COVID-19 patients for a whole year!
           -   Amongst those admitted with confirmed COVID-19 pneumonitis, in-hospital mortality was 20.0% and
               30.2% in those who needed invasive mechanical ventilation. These are some of the best survival
               statistics in the world.
           -   Duration of stay in ICU was Mean 9.1 days, with Median 4.8 days (IQR 2.1 -10.5), and a Mean 17.8
               days; Median 12.1 days (IQR 6.9 - 21.6) in those who needed invasive mechanical ventilation.

       CHRIS (Critical Health Resource Information System): A nationwide dashboard of ICU activity, CHRIS was
       rapidly developed as a collaboration between ANZICS, Ambulance Victoria, Telstra Purple and the Australian
       Government Department of Health. Providing real-time data on ICU activity and capacity, CHRIS facilitated the
       transfer of critically ill patients and enabled early diversion of ambulance presentations to emergency
       departments at hospitals where ICUs had capacity. This assisted in providing real-time system planning,
       maintained optimum standards of care and provided overall visibility of the ICU sector.



RECOMMENDATIONS

  1.   Implementation of a national intensive care advisory committee that ensures formal links between the
       Intensive care clinical community and the federal government to maintain communication, national intensive
       care capability planning and pandemic preparedness.
  2.   The CHRIS data platform is provided with secure ongoing federal funding and is optimised to enable the
       monitoring of available intensive care resources and operational capacity.
  3.   The soon-to-be-enacted Australian CDC functions as an independent, trusted source of public health advice,
       enabling safe and consistent infection prevention practices across Australia. The CDC should also have direct
       consultative links to intensive care physicians.
  4.   To ensure the availability of intensive care services for critically ill patients, particularly during times of strain, a
       national target of 80% intensive care occupancy is mandated and supported at a federal level.
  5.   Federal government-led initiatives, partnered with states and the intensive care workforce, are developed to
       improve the current workforce shortfall in intensive care across all disciplines, including medical, nursing and
       allied health, with a particular focus on developing sustainable staffing of intensive care units in regional
       Australia.
