Australian COVID-19 Modelling Initiative (AUSCMI)
submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry
We write on behalf of the Australian COVID-19 Modelling Initiative (AUSCMI) to contribute to
the COVID-19 Response Inquiry. AUSCMI is a broad collective of expert researchers,
epidemiologists, and modellers focused on modelling infectious diseases dynamics that is not
formally constituted. We met throughout the pandemic to support coordination of Australian
COVID-19 modelling for policy and disseminated our modelling research through various
modalities, including a series of educational seminars to improve community understanding of
infectious disease modelling. Our submission focuses on the role, impact and potential of
modelling in policy, strategy and research. We provide related recommendations for improving
Australia's preparedness for future pandemics. We note that several very important modelling-
related issues fall out of scope of the review terms of reference, including sub-national and
international coordination and long Covid.

1, Modelling involvement, transparency and reproducibility
Disease modelling can be a powerful tool for ensuring responses to emerging infections are
evidence-based.1'5 However, transparency is key to public acceptance and impact.6 Australia
has a breadth of modelling groups located across many institutions that possess a broad range
of expertise. Different methodologies can increase confidence in results where conclusions
coincide, provide complementary insights or identify areas of genuine epidemiological
uncertainty. Although there is a tension between responding rapidly to a crisis and undertaking
comprehensive analyses, there is scope to improve the collaborative involvement, scientific
review, transparency and reproducibility of pandemic modelling for policy.6

Recommendation'. Australia should adopt a collaborative approach to modelling at the national
level, with at least three independent groups contributing to modelling for public health
decision-making bodies. Where time constraints render it impossible for several groups to
undertake independent analyses, such groups can still collaborate in the identification of
questions to be addressed, interpretation of the implications of modelling results for policy and
peer review. The UK’s modelling consortium (SPI-M-O) provides one possible model to inform
the construction of such a collaborative approach.7 With the advent of the Australian Centre
for Disease Control (ACDC) and regional cooperation built during COVID-19 period, there is
the opportunity to extend modelling networks, which would facilitate collaboration and peer
review.

2, National coordination
While acknowledging that the scope of this review pertains to the federal domain, Australia’s
response was characterised by key decisions being made across multiple jurisdictions. It is
the federal responsibility to clearly articulate an overarching control strategy for all Australian
governments to follow. Although national strategies were sometimes stated (e.g. aggressive
suppression), in practice these were poorly defined and contributed to a lack of national
coordination. A clear national strategy is critical to ensuring effective communication to the
public of the rationale for implementing specific public health interventions.

Recommendation'. Australia should clearly define the meaning of the terms used to define the
possible strategies to be deployed in the event of a future pandemic. Each strategic option
should be associated with a coherent epidemiological rationale and set of goals.
Implementation of the strategy should be supported by a national body of scientific advisors
with broad representation.

3, Harmonisation of data sources for broader use
At the national level, comprehensive data were not widely available in useable formats to guide
decision making. This was true for key epidemiological data (e.g. case numbers, tests,
hospitalisations, vaccination distribution) and social mobility data (e.g. transportation usage)
that supports modelling the epidemic trajectory. This made the development of models difficult
and limited the capacity to model in real-time to only a few groups. Careful reassessment of
disease surveillance activities and how these important data are collected, stored, aggregated
and shared is needed. Whilst data privacy and the security of identifiable individual data are
important, modelling studies (particularly those examining transmission at the population level)
often require only aggregated, non-identifiable data. Ensuring data are consistently gathered
and stored can facilitate later epidemiological data linkage studies, which are critical to
accurately modelling emerging pathogens.

Recommendation'. A national body, such as the ACDC, is essential to coordinate data
collection, analysis, and publication. This body should ensure harmonisation of the fields for
collection of data for all jurisdictions for central collation. Data should be made equally
accessible to all reputable modelling groups seeking to undertake modelling for policy.

4, The importance of targeted and age-informed strategies
A critical feature of COVID-19, which modelling helped to identify, is its highly age-dependent
severity8 (also true of SARS) and the fact that children have lower transmissibility.9 Public
health strategies should have taken this into account from early in the pandemic, when this
epidemiological phenomenon was first established. In particular, modelling highlighted the
extreme risk to the elderly and the comparatively smaller benefit from interventions targeting
children. Given these features, protection of the aged care sector should have been a major
priority from the early in the pandemic. Although school closures may have been a necessary
component of certain response strategies, public health and social measures that avoid
concentrating harms in children should have been consistently preferred.

Recommendation: Pandemic policy responses should use modelling to inform an
epidemiological understanding that can help to tailor strategic responses to the characteristics
of the pathogen. This modelling-based understanding should be integrated with social, ethical
and economic principles.

5, Social equity and cohesion
Multiple modelling groups identified social inequalities as a significant epidemiological factor
in the epidemiology of COVID-19. In particular, risk factors for infection and severe outcomes
often clustered with employment status that made it more difficult for individuals to protect
themselves against infection.

Recommendation: Mitigation of pandemic risk should be one of several arguments considered
in ensuring governments pursue policy that maximises social equity and cohesion.

6, Interpandemic preparedness and evaluation
Pandemic risk must be recognised as a standing threat. It is not a question of if but when the
next pandemic will occur. As one component of broader pandemic preparedness, future
investment in the systems, structures and frameworks that support the development of
modelling capacity in Australia is key. Modelling should be undertaken now to explore
hypothetical pandemic analyses before new pathogens emerge, including the simulation of
alternative response scenarios to future emerging pathogens. Many public health
interventions were adopted simultaneously or in rapid sequence, making it difficult to define
which interventions worked and which did not. Now is an appropriate time to undertake further
work to quantify the effectiveness, harms and cost effectiveness of the interventions deployed
in order to enhance our preparedness for future pandemics.

Recommendation: The Australian Government should invest in supporting modelling groups,
communities of practice, platforms and linkage infrastructure. Standing frameworks of
governance for the sharing of surveillance data should be considered during inter-pandemic
periods to minimise the logistical burden during the crisis period. Research should be
undertaken now to define the effectiveness of interventions for COVID-19, which will inform
future pandemic responses.
Authors: A/Prof James Trauer1, Prof Tony Blakely2, Prof Margaret Hellard3, Prof Mikhail Prokopenko4, A/Prof Nick
Scott3, A/Prof Jason Thompson5, Professor Tania Sorrell6, A/Prof Oyelola Adegboye7, Dr Samson Ogunlade89    , Dr
Angus Hughes1, Dr Abdul Kuddus8
We would like to also acknowledge ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^substantial contribution to AUSCMI and the
conceptualisation and drafting of this submission. However,


Author affiliations: 1School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University; 2Melbourne School of
Population and Global Health, The University of Melbourne; 3The Burnet Institute; 4Centre for Complex Systems,
The University of Sydney; 5Melbourne School of Design, The University of Melbourne; 6Sydney Infectious Diseases
Institute, The University of Sydney; 7Menzies School of Health Research; 8The Australian Institute of Tropical
Health and Medicine, James Cook University


References
1.      McBryde ES, Meehan MT, Caldwell JM, et al. Modelling direct and herd protection
effects of vaccination against the SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant in Australia. Medical Journal of
Australia 2021; 215(9): 427-32.
2.      Scott N, Palmer A, Delport D, et al. Modelling the impact of relaxing COVID-19
control measures during a period of low viral transmission. Medical Journal of Australia
2021; 214(2): 79-83.
3.      Chang SL, Harding N, Zachreson C, Cliff OM, Prokopenko M. Modelling transmission
and control of the COVID-19 pandemic in Australia. Nature Communications 2020; 11(1):
5710.
4.      Trauer JM, Lydeamore MJ, Dalton GW, et al. Understanding how Victoria, Australia
gained control of its second COVID-19 wave. Nature Communications 2021; 12(1): 6266.
5.      Szanyi J, Wilson T, Howe S, et al. Epidemiologic and economic modelling of optimal
COVID-19 policy: public health and social measures, masks and vaccines in Victoria,
Australia. The Lancet Regional Health - Western Pacific 2023; 32.
6.      Thompson J, McClure R, Scott N, et al. A framework for considering the utility of
models when facing tough decisions in public health: a guideline for policy-makers. Health
Research Policy and Systems 2022; 20(1): 107.
7.      Medley GF. A consensus of evidence: The role of SPI-M-O in the UK COVID-19
response. Adv Biol Regul 2022; 86: 100918.
8.      Williams P, Koirala A, Saravanos GL, et al. COVID-19 in New South Wales children
during 2021: severity and clinical spectrum. Medical Journal of Australia 2022; 217(6): 303­
10.
9.      Davies NG, Klepac P, Liu Y, et al. Age-dependent effects in the transmission and
control of COVID-19 epidemics. Nature Medicine 2020; 26(8): 1205-11.
