9 December 2023

Robyn Kruk
Panel Chair
COVID-19 Response Inquiry




I’m an academic within the School of Psychology at the University of Queensland. While I obviously
have concerns about the mental health impact of pandemics, I’m writing as I’m more concerned about
the psychological biases that make it hard for most of us to think clearly about the risks from
pandemics. I think those biases will make it easy for us to prioritise the wrong things when we try to
support industry and business (Terms of Reference #5). I also think it may lead us to under-value the
most important types of health response measures (Terms of Reference #1) and preventative health
measures (Terms of Reference #2).

In short, our biases will lead us to focus too much on pandemics that closely mirror COVID-19, and
significantly under-prepare for the risk of pandemics that are worse. The 'Availability' bias makes us
overemphasise risks that easily come to mind like COVID-19, overshadowing less salient but more
devastating threats.1 'Hindsight Bias' can falsely assure us that future pandemics will be predictable
and similar to past events, leading to complacency. 'Scope Neglect' makes it hard for us to feel the
difference between a pandemic with a fatality rate of 0.1%, 1%, and 10%,1 when the latter would
cause a complete breakdown of civilization. 'Overconfidence' bias means our brains round down
small risks of catastrophic pandemics to zero.1 We cannot round down a small risk to zero. A 1%
chance each year of a pandemic killing 10% of Australia is an ‘expected death toll’ 25 times higher
than our annual road toll.2 For these reasons, the federal government must focus on preventing
catastrophic outcomes. I think it can best do that by supporting businesses and industry to: 1) create
pandemic-proof personal protective equipment, and 2) invest in better indoor air quality.

In the context of Terms of Reference 5, support for industry, including in the context of labour
shortages, I recommend that the Inquiry consider the paper by MIT academics and the Geneva
Centre for Security Policy titled “Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics”.3

The paper begins by unpacking ways that pandemic risk is increasing—in particular the possibility of
engineered pandemics. The paper also makes a useful distinction between “stealth” and “wildfire”
pandemics, which has deep implications for our policy response.

Importantly, the paper goes on to explain that in a pandemic worse than COVID-19, workers who
operate critical infrastructure may die or refuse to attend the workplace. If that happens, a modern
interconnected society would rapidly collapse. The second-order consequences from a lack of
electricity causing cascading failures in other critical sectors would far exceed the immediate
consequences of the virus. Imagine your local hospital without electricity or clean water.

When the Inquiry thinks about support for industry, the primary goal of that support should be keeping
the lights on during a future, worse, pandemic. If critical infrastructure fails, other questions like
financial support or community support rapidly become irrelevant or impossible.

Among the various recommendations, Gopal et al argue that “pandemic-proof personal protective
equipment” (P4E) is essential to dealing with the risk of failing critical infrastructure. The argument for
P4E is that essential workers (such as those critical to providing food, water, power, law enforcement)
need the confidence that they can continue to work without endangering themselves and their loved
ones. The paper provides requirements for what this kind of equipment would need to look like.
The paper also includes discussions about definitions of essential workers, ways of preparing the
workforce and supply chain, and a discussion of social and technological approaches to slowing the
spread of future pandemics.

I recommend that the inquiry read Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics and treat it
as a foundation stone for other recommendations.3 That is, our first priority has to be actions that take
these worst-case scenarios off the table. Action against other elements of the terms of reference are
only possible and impactful if we can be confident that we’re in a position to prevent a social collapse.
I appreciate these risks are hard to imagine—many Australians won’t, or won’t like imagining
them—that’s exactly why the federal government must take responsibility for preparing against them.

Another key area the Australian government should invest in is better Indoor Air Quality (IAQ).
Australians spend at least 90% of their time indoors and every year, Australians fall ill as a result of
exposure to airborne pathogens while indoors. Worse still, respiratory transmission is a primary
transmission route for pandemics. Therefore, reducing respiratory transmission will not only result in
less illness for Australians but also safeguard us against the next pandemic. In addition to proven
approaches and technologies, there are promising, effective, and scalable interventions, such as
Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI), which Australia could be supporting in the hopes of
deployment before the next pandemic.

The Lancet COVID-19 Commission Task Force has proposed Non-infectious Air Delivery Rates
(NADR) as measurable goals for ventilation and filtration targets that protect against infectious
disease transmission. Air delivery rates to different sized rooms can be compared using the
normalised measure of Air Changes per Hour (ACH)-the number of times the volume of air in a room
is exchanged with fresh, pathogen-free air each hour. Ventilating a room with fresh outdoor air while
exhausting air in the room reduces the concentration of pathogens in the air produced by the room's
occupants. Filtration and disinfection technologies can achieve comparable effects to ventilating a
room with fresh air can be measured by Equivalent Air Changes per Hour (eACH) - the number of
ACH required to achieve the same reduction in pathogen concentration.

Traditionally, air changeovers are achieved through opening a window or having an HVAC (Heating,
ventilation, and air conditioning) system installed. The Air Safety to Combat Global Catastrophic
Biorisk report summarises the cost-effectiveness of different mechanical IAQ interventions.4 A modern
HVAC system costs $135 USD per ACH, assuming it is updated to current standards for filtration and
air delivery rates. However, many buildings do not have an HVAC system installed and are often not
ventilated-schools, cafes and restaurants, homes, and smaller and older workplaces are just some
examples of poorly ventilated spaces that we visit every day. Modern HVAC systems can be
expensive or difficult to retrofit into buildings but represent an important step towards delivering
non-infectious air. However, there are more cost-effective technologies that are easier to retrofit and
could be widely adopted to keep Australians safe and healthy indoors. One example is portable air
cleaners using HERA filters which are estimated to cost approximately $110 USD per eACH and are
simple to retrofit into buildings that are unsuitable for HVAC.

Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) is the use of ultraviolet light to inactivate or kill pathogens
such as bacteria, fungal spores and viruses. UVGI lights in indoor spaces could decrease the number
of pathogen particles in the air in a safe, scalable and simple manner. Upper room UVGI lamps use
254nm wavelength UV light to sterilise the air in the top of rooms as it circulates and cost
approximately $14 USD per eACH. Far-UVC lights are a newer innovation that can bathe an occupied
room in far-UVC wavelengths.5 It uses a shorter wavelength of 222nm, which appears to be safe for
skin and corneas yet it still inactivates the comparatively smaller pathogen particles.6 Unlike other
interventions, Far-UVC has potential to reduce short range and conversational distance transmission
and sterilise surfaces, in addition to reducing long-range airborne transmission like mechanical
ventilation, portable air cleaners and 254nm UVGI. It is estimated to cost $15-46 per eACH, however,
still requires additional R&D to make it cost-effective and scalable.

Given that we have a mix of proven approaches for a variety of buildings and promising technology, I
believe Australia should be investing in the deployment of what we know works and the research and
development of what we know is promising. UVGI technology has the potential to make all indoor
environments safe for Australians to occupy without fear of respiratory illness at an affordable price.
Through supporting research and development in this technology, Australia can lower the burden of
respiratory illness and protect against the next pandemic. It can also leverage the opportunity to
become a world leader in developing technology that will no-doubt be in demand later.

It might seem strange for a psychologist to be recommending technical solutions to a biological
problem, but our track record shows these solutions are higher leverage for governments. We can't
persuade people to drive safely all the time—we mandate all cars have seat belts, and enforce laws
that all people use them. The risk of any one of us dying in a car accident is small—as is the risk of a
truly catastrophic pandemic—but both are large enough for the government to take responsibility for
addressing the risks. The government can save thousands of lives by enforcing road standards and
laws—it could save millions of lives by preventing a catastrophic pandemic. The government will need
to provide fewer mental health services to victims if it can prevent the next pandemic in the first place.
Technical solutions like better pandemic proof personal protective equipment, and better indoor air
quality, are evidence-based solutions the government has at its disposal, among other strategies
outlined in the reports cited here. Overall, I hope the government does its best to overcome the biases
that cause us to naturally underestimate catastrophic risks and focus its efforts on this kind of security.

Yours sincerely,




Dr Michael Noetel
PhD, M App Psy, SFHEA
Program Director, Master of Psychology
School of Psychology
The University of Queensland
Brisbane Qld 4072 Australia



1.   Yudkowsky E. Cognitive biases potentially affecting judgement of global risks. In: Bostrom N,
     Cirkovic M, eds. Global Catastrophic Risks. Oxford Academic; 2008.
     doi: 10.1093/OSO/9780198570509.003.0009
2.   Fatalities data. Office of Road Safety. Accessed December 9, 2023.
     https://www.officeofroadsafety.gov.au/data-hub/fatalities-data
3.   Gopal A, Bradshaw W, Sunil V, Esvelt KM. Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics.
     Geneva Centre for Security Policy; 2023.
     https://www.gcsp.ch/publications/securing-civilisation-against-catastrophic-pandemics
4.   Kieinwaks G, Fraser-Urquhart A, Kraprayoon J, Morrison J. Air Safety to Combat Global
     Catastrophic Biorisk. 1 Day Sooner; Rethink Priorities; 2023.
     https://rethinkpriorities.org/publications/air-safety-to-combat-global-catastrophic-biorisks-revised
5.   Welch D, Buonanno M, Grilj V, et al. Far-UVC light: A new tool to control the spread of
     airborne-mediated microbial diseases. Sci Rep. 2018;8(1):2752.
     doi: 10.1038/S41598-018-21058-w
6.   Hessling M, Haag R, Sieber N, Vatter P. The impact of far-UVC radiation (200-230 nm) on
     pathogens, cells, skin, and eyes - a collection and analysis of a hundred years of data. GMS Hyg
     Infect Control. 2021;16:Doc07. doi:10.3205/dgkh000378
