Submission by Alex Pollard to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry

The total failure of Australia's covid response
If the inquiry is serious about fact-finding, it should publicly confront^^^^^^^, a covid vaccine
dissenter and one of the world's most influential and effective “misinformation spreaders”. The best way
to stop his “misinformation” is to show he is incorrect. But you won't because you can't.
During the covid period dissenters were fully justified in questioning and contradicting the official
response to covid. Every official covid intervention was arguably not just a total failure but counter­
productive:
     • Lockdowns - kept people indoors away from sunshine and therefore causing low vitamin D
         levels, which correlate with bad covid outcomes. And covid was almost never transmitted
         outdoors.
   •   Banning early treatment - cheap and safe alternatives such as vitamin D, antibiotics (to treat
       secondary bacterial infections as is standard for respiratory diseases), hydroxychloroquine,
       ivermectin and even garlic were denounced or even banned by officials on spurious grounds. We
       were not even supposed to find out if these interventions were effective - it turns out they all were
       - the scientific evidence is overwhelming. Lives were lost.
   •   Remdesivir and vents - medical malpractice on a grand scale that only succeeded in making the
       covid death toll higher than otherwise, heightening the covid hysteria
   •   Border closures - the only policy response that succeeded in its own terms. A very high economic
       cost considering early treatments were available from mid 2020 and ultimately futile as the
       opportunity to prepare for covid it afforded was squandered on useless vaccines.
   •   Masks - no evidence of any benefit whatsoever in preventing spread in anything other than a
       surgical setting with open wounds - the clue is in the name - “surgical mask”. Rebreathing your
       bacteria all day causes respiratory problems. No official is dissuading mask addicts.
   •   Covid vaccines and mandates - have caused approximately 30,000 excess deaths in Australia from
       2021 onward, enormous additional morbidity and disability, and completely failed to stop the
       spread of covid as was promised. If this was success, what does failure look like?
   •   Expensive anti-virals - Extremely expensive anti-virals from^^^| and^^B had dubious
       benefit.          offering was even promoted by the chair of the         an appalling conflict of
       interest right in our faces but few see it.
The foregoing amounts to an enormous ongoing compounding malfeasance by public officials which is
killing tens of thousands of Australians and costing billions in public and private money. However, in its
wisdom, the Australian Commonwealth government seeks to censor any ordinary person not funded by
government money from having anything “harmful” to say about it all. It actually makes perfect sense for
the definition of “harmful” to be transformed from “actual provable harm” to “harms the emotional well­
being of the government lackey who is paid to believe this complete nonsense”. Perhaps if whoever is
reading this could please just recognise your cognitive dissonance over the abject failure of the covid
response that you psychologically identify with? And then move on from that cognitive dissonance by
internally acknowledging that in fact, the “cookers” and “anti-vaxxers” were, at the end of the day, when
it came to making life and death personal and public health decisions, in this case, much cleverer and
smarter than you? Rather than trying to perpetually double-down on failure? Please could you do that?
The nature of “truth” and “science”
Nietzsche observed that for every person, the notion of what is “true” is really what brings psychological
security. That often means whatever is “true” is that which is tested and reliable. But not necessarily,
absolutely, and for all time, true.
Science is not a set of established facts. Science is a process for testing hypotheses and so iteratively
arriving at a “more true” understanding of reality. The banal catch-cry “trust the science” is essentially
anti-scientific. Really there has been a profound confusion in the West - the word “science” now actually
refers to the technocratic cult of scientism. Many technological miracles, such as smart phones, have
arisen from scientific and engineering efforts however the existence of the artefacts such as smart phones
doesn't prove anything about the infallibility of technocrats.
Science in fact shifts suddenly on occasion, not just in an incremental manner, when an old paradigm
must be discarded after too many attempted ad-hoc modifications finally make it untenable. Thomas
Kuhn describes this in “The Structure of Scientific Revolutions”. The government's proposed censorship
regime makes an implicit the assumption that nothing that has been scientifically established as true need
ever be revised. The fact is, scientific theories have been discarded many times in the past in ways that the
proponents find very embarrassing, if they are still alive to see the Revolution, which they usually aren't,
because as the saying goes “science proceeds one funeral at a time”

Rigged terms of reference
The sneaky exclusion of “Actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments” mustn't prevent
the inquiry from asking why on earth the Commonwealth facilitated release of vaccine records - private
health information. Clearly, there was a covert National Vaccination Scheme that inveigled the states and
territories in doing the dirty work of the Commonwealth - mandating and coercing injection of an
experimental gene therapies which had no long term safety data. The Commonwealth is ultimately
answerable for this crime against humanity. It was clearly a crime - not least based on the Nuremberg
precedent and the constitutional prohibition on any form of medical conscription - such as forced
participation in an experiment as a form of medical service to the community. Indeed on Insiders then
health minister^^^^^^admitted that the vaccine was a clinical trial.
I would particularly like a full examination of the role of Jane Halton in this criminal conspiracy.

Conclusion
I've completely lost confidence in Australia's political, media and medical establishments. We are
governed by extremely                    who take their orders from psychopathic pharmaceutical
corporations. The medical profession, having discarded decades of ethics built up from the aftermath of
         have reduced themselves      blithely recommending jabs that kill about 1 in 1000
recipients and cripple even more. And the madness continues -^^^^^is being subsidised to make
more of these dangerous mRNA “vaccines” in Australia that will no doubt be waved through by the
complicit and worse-than-useless TGA.
Overall public policy in Australia is now just a series of                  We're being treated likel
The whole lot of you are too invested to raise a voice in protest and need to be cleaned out of your
positions of power and influence.
