                                                                            Level 10, 213 Miller Street, North Sydney NSW 2060
                                                                                         PO Bex 7B5, North Sydney NSW 2059
                                                                                             P 02 9280 4744 F 02 9280 4755
 Carers NSW                                                                                          con ta ct@care rsnsw, org.au
                                                                                    Carers NSW ABN 45 461 578 851 ACN 606 277 552
  Australia                                                                                    www.carersnsw.org.au


21 December 2023

Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet Independent Panel
Andrew Fisher Building
1 National Circuit
Barton ACT 2600
COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.gov.au

Carers NSW welcomes the opportunity to provide a submission to the Commonwealth Government
COVID-19 Response Inquiry to improve government response measures in the event of future
pandemics based on learnings from the COVID-19 pandemic. Carers NSW recognises the need to
enact long lasting whole-of-government change to ensure future pandemic responses better support
vulnerable groups, including family and friend carers.

Carers NSW is the peak non-government organisation for carers in New South Wales (NSW). A carer
is any individual who provides care and support to a family member or friend who has a disability, mental
illness, drug and/or alcohol dependency, chronic condition, terminal illness or who is frail. Carers NSW
is part of the National Carer Network and a member of Carers Australia. Our vision is an Australia that
values and supports all carers, and our goals are to:

    •         Be a leading carer organisation in which carers have confidence
    •         Actively promote carer recognition and support
    •    Actively support carers to navigate a changing service landscape that will be characterised by
         ongoing policy reform
    •    Promote connected community experiences and opportunities for carers that are inclusive of
         diverse carer groups
    •    Lead and advocate for carer-specific and carer-inclusive policy making, research and service
         delivery
    •         Continue to be a quality-driven, responsive and carer-focused organisation.

According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics 2018 Survey of Disability, Ageing and Carers (SDAC),
there are approximately 2.65 million carers in Australia.1 For carers, COVID-19 has presented
ongoing heightened challenges, with extended periods of isolation, reduction in formal health and
social care services and an increased reliance on family and friend carers throughout the pandemic.
Additionally, while carers were not generally identified as an at-risk group, they are more likely than
the general population to be older, live with a disability and live with a long-term health condition,2
placing them at higher risk of severe outcomes. Furthermore, they are more likely to encounter
persons in vulnerable groups through the provision of unpaid care and support to their family
members or friends.

In 2022, Carers NSW was commissioned by the NSW Ageing and Disability Commission Advisory
Board to develop a report, titled Preparing for the future: Learning from the impacts of the COVID-19




1 Australian Bureau of Statistics, (2019). Survey of Disability, Ageing and Carers 2018. TableBuilder Dataset.
Canberra: Australian Government. Online available under: www.abs.qov.au.
2 Australian Bureau of Statistics (2018), Disability, Ageing and Carers, Australia: Summary of Findings, available
online at: https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health/
disability/disability-ageing-and-carers-australia-summary-findings/latest-release. Viewed on 23 September 2022.




              ALL CARERS • AN AUSTRALIA THAT VALUES AND                                           ALL CARERS • AN
response on older people, people with disability and carers in NSW (the Preparing for the future report),3
that looked at the experiences of carers and the people they care for, government responses throughout
the pandemic, and potential opportunities to improve preparedness for the future. This submission
identifies areas relevant to carers which are still in need of attention by providing a summary of some
key findings from the Preparing for the future report and insights from additional consultation work with
carers conducted by Carers NSW to provide recommendations relevant to the Commonwealth
Government. However, we urge the Prime Minister and Cabinet Independent Panel (the Panel) to
review the report in its entirety.

Key impacts of COVID-19 responses for carers

The Preparing for the future report found that negative impacts experienced by carers and the people
they care for were a result of difficulty accessing key support services, including residential aged care
facilities, respite services, in-home and community aged care and disability supports, and mandated
or self-imposed social isolation during the COVID-19 pandemic. Evidence indicated that carers and
the people they care for maintained a higher degree of COVID-19 related social isolation, despite the
easing of COVID-19 restrictions, due to the ongoing health risks experienced by people with
compromised immune systems.

Additional negative impacts experienced by carers and the people they care for included:

    •   barriers accessing information and support, such as low digital literacy and digital access,
        language barriers, disability discrimination, and inconsistent or unclear communication from
        authorities.

    •   limited access to adequate personal protective equipment (PPE), accessible and affordable
        COVID-19 testing opportunities and timely vaccination.

    •   difficulties accessing essential items such as food, toiletries, and medication, particularly for
        carers caring for someone with dietary requirements or continence care.

    •    significant barriers for young carers completing their studies, due to inability to access
         necessary electronics or internet services to support their learning during COVID-19.

    •   increased concerns related to financial vulnerability and coercive control, and reduced access
        to safe alternative or short-term accommodation to escape violence.4

    •   difficulty visiting and providing care to the person they care for in hospital settings, with
        varying responses and policies across different NSW Local Health Districts (LHDs).

    •   heightened feelings of distress due to separation from family members in residential care, as
        well as reduced ability to monitor of the quality of care received by residents,5 and reduced
        level of care, as informal support was not available to complement formal services.

Carers NSW believes that a more integrated approach to planning and communication, and more
inclusive and accessible public health information and initiatives are required to reduce the risk of
adverse health and social outcomes for carers and thew people they care for as the pandemic
continues to evolve, and in future public health crises.



3 Preparing for the future: Learning from the impacts of the COVID-19 response on older people, people with
disability and carers in NSW (the Preparing for the future report) available on the Carers NSW website:
https://www. carersnsw.org.au/resources/policy-and-research-resources?keywords=covid-19
4 NSW Ageing and Disability Commission (2022).; Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and
Exploitation of People with a Disability (2022) The impact of and responses to the Omicron wave of the COVID-
19 pandemic for people with disability Issues paper, available online at:
https://disability.rovalcommission.qo v.au/publications/impact-and-responses-omicron-wave-covid-19-pandemic-
people-disability-issues-paper.
5 Carers NSW (2020b).



                                                                                                                2
Proposed actions

While the Preparing for the future report was aimed at understanding the impacts of COVID-19 and
associated government responses, and identifying opportunities for improving pandemic responses in
NSW, the findings indicated the need for a whole-of-government response, particularly due to
complex and at times blurred jurisdictional issues. The Preparing for the future report, therefore,
detailed 29 proposed actions, 18 of which relate to the Commonwealth Government, or involve
shared jurisdictional responsibility. The proposed actions are summarised below, but for the complete
list of these please see the Preparing for the future report.6

The proposed actions are grouped under five key areas:

    •   Improve planning, consultation and leadership - including to establish crisis protocols that
        trigger an integrated care sector response; and embed requirements to consult with bodies
        representing older people, people living with disability and carers.

    •   Enhance information and messaging - including to centralise and simplify official information
        sources and channels; embed accessibility and inclusive language requirements in
        communications; and support community outreach initiatives to ensure at-risk and hard to reach
        communities are aware of the services available to them.

    •   Improve access to services and support - including measures to manage priority access of
        at-risk groups to essential services during crisis periods; and expand digital literacy and access
        to older people, people living with disability and carers.

    •   Address financial pressure - including measures to support priority access to essentials and
        to support workplace flexibility that enables carers to continue to work where possible.

    •   Enhance mental and physical health - including measures to enable isolated people to
        remain connected; maintain community ‘safe spaces' for older people, people living with
        disability and carers; and prioritise programs to help re-establish social connection as
        restrictions ease.


Carers NSW thanks the Prime Minister and Cabinet for the opportunity to provide feedback to the
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry. Carers NSW believes that the inquiry will
enable improved understanding of the ongoing impacts of COVID-19 and provide opportunities for
Government to improve policy and program responses to future pandemics for carers and the people
they care for.

Yours sincerely,




Elena Katrakis
CEO
Carers NSW




6 The complete Preparing for the future: Learning from the impacts of the COVID-19 response on older people,
people with disability and carers in NSW report is available on the Carers NSW website:
https://www.carersnsw.org. au/resources/policy-and-research-resources?keywords=covid-19



                                                                                                           3
