                                                                            www.inclusionaustralia.org.au
        Inclusion Australia                                               admin@inclusionaustralia.org.au

                                                                                            1300 312 343

                                                                    P0 Box 336, Nunawading, Victoria 3131
19 December 2023

Dear Robyn Kruk AO, Professor Catherine Bennett, and Dr Angela Jackson,

Re: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Inclusion Australia is the national Disability Representative Organisation representing the
rights and interests of Australians with an intellectual disability and their families. Founded in
1954, our mission is to work to make sure people with an intellectual disability have the same
opportunities as people without disability. Our policy team includes several policy officers
with an intellectual disability and our policy and advocacy work is directly shaped by people
with an intellectual disability and their families.
Inclusion Australia's strength comes from our state members who use their combined
experience and expertise to promote the inclusion of people with an intellectual disability.
Our state members are:
    •      Developmental Disability Western Australia (DDWA) - Western Australia
    •      NSW Council for Intellectual Disability (CID) - New South Wales
    •      Parent to Parent (P2P) - Queensland
    •      South Australian Council on Intellectual Disability (SACID) - South Australia
    •      Speak Out Advocacy-Tasmania
    •      Victorian Advocacy League for Individuals with Disability (VALID) - Victoria
For more than two years we have had a Northern Territory branch of Inclusion Australia based
in Darwin. Our work in the Northern Territory is informed by a Local Steering Group that
includes representatives from advocacy and other territory-based organisations.
Thank you for the opportunity to provide a submission to the Commonwealth Government's
COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

We do not have capacity to undertake extensive consultation with our community to shape
our response and provide detailed recommendations, but the COVID-19 pandemic and
governments' responses have had a considerable impact on the lives of people with an
intellectual disability and their families. We would like to share previous work we have done
on this important topic, and outline a range of evidence to the Independent Panel
highlighting that:

    •   People with an intellectual disability were—and continue to be—disproportionately
        impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic

    •   The vulnerabilities of the healthcare and income support systems in Australia
        revealed and exacerbated by the pandemic (though many of those vulnerabilities far
        pre-dated the pandemic itself) put the lives and livelihoods of people with an
        intellectual disability at tremendous and disproportionate risk.

Based on this, we wish to strongly recommend to the Independent Panel that the Inquiry
consider the distinct ways the COVID-19 pandemic impacted people with an intellectual
disability and their families, and include specific measures aimed to address these issues
in your recommendations to the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet in relation to
response measures in the event of future pandemics.

Our previous advocacy in relation to the Australian Government's COVID-19 vaccine
national rollout strategy comprises the following, including a range of decision-making
resources for people with an intellectual disability:

•   Barriers to COVID-19 vaccination for people with an intellectual disability
•   Disability Royal Commission—written statement of Catherine McAlpine, CEO of Inclusion
    Australia
•   Disability Royal Commission—written statement of Kevin Stone, CEO of the Victorian
    Advocacy League for Intellectual Disability (VALID)
•   Media release—People with disability need urgent action on vaccines to stay safe from
    COVID
•   COVID Vaccine - Yes or No - How to Decide: a decision-making resource for people with
    an intellectual disability
•   Living with COVIC—an animation by Inclusion Australia and Speak Out
•   Free COVID-19 vaccine rollout webinars
•   Disability advocate shares her COVID vaccine experience
•   'Left in lockdown'—People with disability call for a COVID Recovery Plan.

We believe the evidence provided in our submission, and in the resources listed above, will
help the Panel to consider the unique ways the COVID-19 pandemic, and the
Commonwealth Government's response to it, impacted people with an intellectual disability
and their families. As the World Health Organisation noted in 2020:




We strongly agree with this statement, especially its aspiration that the COVID-19 pandemic
should be used as an opportunity to address the inequities faced by people with an
intellectual disability in any future pandemic response and recovery plans and build a
more inclusive society as a whole.




                                                2
We also note that the findings of the COVID-19 Response Inquiry will be relevant to the
development of the new Australian Centre for Disease Control (CDC). We believe the
evidence contained in this submission will be essential to the development of the CDC in
ensuring it is fit for purpose and appropriately targeted in its scope and activities.

Thank you again for considering our submission. We warmly invite any further opportunities
to consult on any of the issues raised in this letter.

Kind regards,




Catherine McAlpine
Chief Executive Officer




                                                 3
         Inclusion Australia


Submission to the Commonwealth Governments
COVID-19 Response Inquiry


Contents

 A note on accessibility.......................................................................................................... 5
 Background........................................................................................................................... 6
    Health and economic inequities....................................................................................... 6

    Poorer access to primary health and mental health care................................................. 7
    Lack of training among healthcare professionals.............................................................. 8
    Higher cost of living pressures and financial hardship...................................................... 8
    Income support for people with an intellectual disability................................................ 9
 How the COVID-19 pandemic disproportionately impacted people with an intellectual
 disability and their families................................................................................................ 10
    1.           Direct health risk............................................................................................... 10
    2.           Disability workforce issues............................................................................... 11
    3.           Lack of coordination between state, territory and federal governments.........12
    4.           The increased risk of human rights breaches during the pandemic................. 14
    5. Lack of accessible information and access to supported decision-making for people
    with an intellectual disability.......................................................................................... 14
A note on accessibility
Given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on people with an intellectual disability and
their families, this inquiry is very important to our community. We wish to note that it
would be very valuable that, when public, the report to the Department of Prime Minister
and Cabinet be translated into an accessible format, ideally Easy Read.

This will ensure our community can engage with your findings and understand how any
response measures in the event of future pandemics may impact their experiences. We
sincerely thank the Independent Panel members in advance for this, and warmly invite any
further conversations on how to implement these inclusive practices if that would be useful.




                                              5
 ackground
During and since the COVID-19 pandemic, people with an intellectual disability—having
already been much less likely to access healthcare or to participate and be included in the
community, as we discuss below—were disproportionately affected by its health, social and
economic impacts. This highlighted key vulnerabilities in the systems designed to care for
them.

We understand the current inquiry is focussed on the Commonwealth Government's
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and not the operations of the health or social security
system in their entireties.

However, we believe it is crucial to highlight the ways the inequities perpetuated by these
systems, many of which predated the pandemic itself, impacted people with an intellectual
disability during the pandemic, especially in relation to Australia's healthcare and income
support systems—two important aspects of the Inquiry's Terms of Reference.

As the national voice for people with an intellectual disability, we continue to call on all
Australian governments—as we did throughout the pandemic—to acknowledge that people
with an intellectual disability must be recognised and supported as 'vulnerable persons' for
the purposes of COVID-19 planning. This requires all government agencies and government
funded service providers to recognise and act on the fact that, as people made significantly
more vulnerable by a range of systemic failures, people with an intellectual disability have
distinct needs that require additional support. This must be considered and appropriately
planned for in any future pandemic plans and responses made by the Commonwealth
Government, including through targeted, sustainable funding.

Health and economic inequities
About 1.8% of the Australian population have an intellectual disability, or around 450,000
people.1 There is a growing body of evidence that shows that people with an intellectual
disability experience many barriers to accessing healthcare services—including oral
healthcare and mental health services—and that these services are generally not inclusive.
These barriers include:

    •   Health professionals' lack of understanding of intellectual disability, and lack of
        implementation of human-rights, inclusive and evidence-based approaches within
        healthcare settings

    •   Negative attitudes or assumptions about people with an intellectual disability,
        including a false assumption that some people with an intellectual disability cannot
        make decisions or give informed consent



1 UNSW Department of Developmental Disability Neuropsychiatry. (2023). ID Health Data Portal. Retrieved
from: https://idhealthdataportal.unsw.edu.au/about



                                                     6
    •         Lack of flexibility and reasonable adjustments to meet a person's needs

    •    A siloed approach to healthcare management that does not recognise the
         complexity of health-related issues that people with an intellectual disability may
         experience, which may involve accessing care from several departments that do not
         interface well.

Poorer access to primary health and mental health care
As a result of the lack of inclusivity within healthcare services generally, research shows that
people with an intellectual disability experience significantly poorer health outcomes
compared to other people with disability and people without disability, including:

    •         More than twice the rate of avoidable deaths

    •         Twice the rate of emergency department and hospital admissions

    •    Substantially higher rates of physical and mental health conditions—while
         simultaneously lower rates of detection of illness, particularly of mental illness

    •    Significantly lower rates of preventative healthcare and underdiagnosis of chronic
         and acute health conditions.2
                                     3

In terms of mental health—which is an important aspect of the COVID-19 Response
Inquiry's terms of reference—it is estimated that more than half (57%) of people with an
intellectual disability also have a mental health condition.4 However, across Australian
states and territories, people with an intellectual disability are largely excluded from mental
health policy and not recognised in healthcare settings as having an increased risk of
experiencing mental ill-health.5*



2                              2019). Health Inequality and People with Intellectual Disability—Research Summary.
Retrieved from: https://cid.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Research-Analysis-Health-Status-of-People-
With-lntellectual-Disability.pdf
3 Inclusion Australia. (2020). Inclusion Australia's Response to the issues paper on healthcare for people with
cognitive disability, p. 4. Retrieved from: https://www.inclusionaustralia.org.au/wp-
content/uploads/2021/10/Our-Submissions 2020 OS Submission-to-the-DRC-on-healthcare-for-people-with-
intellectua l-disa bility. pdf
Inclusion Australia. (2020). Submission to the Disability Royal Commission - The Omnibus, p. 51-54. Retrieved
from: https://www.inclusionaustralia.org.au/submission/submission-to-the-drc-the-omnibus/
41(2019). Health Inequality and People with Intellectual Disability—Research Summary.
Retrieved from: https://cid.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Research-Analysis-Health-Status-of-People-
With-lntellectual-Disability.pdf
5H^^■^^^^■^^^^■^^■■^^^■(2018). Making Mental Health Policy Inclusive of
People with Intellectual Disability. University of New South Wales.
www.3dn.unsw.edu.au/sites/default/files/documents/MHID%20Policy%20Review%20Report_final_new%20
template.pdf;
                                                            | 2019). Access to mental health services: The
experiences of people with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities,
32(2), 368-379. https://doi.org/10.llll/jar.12533



                                                        7
Additionally, diagnostic overshadowing is a significant barrier for people with an intellectual
disability to receive appropriate support for mental ill-health. This is the tendency for
medical practitioners to consider expressions of pain (including psychological pain) as
'behaviour' or attributable to a disability diagnosis, rather than a clinical issue requiring
treatment.6

Lack of training among healthcare professionals
This is a critical consequence of the widespread lack of understanding and skills of many
health professionals in treating people with an intellectual disability, which contributes to
the shorter life expectancy and high rates of preventable deaths among people with an
intellectual disability.

Indeed, it is now well understood that training on the health of people with an intellectual
disability in Australian university medical and nursing schools is very low, containing:

     •         A median of 2.6 hours' compulsory content across 12 medical schools

     •   No intellectual disability content in 52 percent of nursing schools and very limited
         content overall.7

Higher cost of living pressure and financial hardship
Lastly, it is well evidenced that Australians with disability face higher cost of living pressures
than people without disability and are more likely to have a lower level of personal income.8
People with disability also experience higher rates of poverty than those without disability.9

The National Centre for Social and Economic Modelling (NATSEM) has estimated the extra
costs of living for households with a member with disability compared with households with
similar characteristics but with no member with disability.10 They found that:



                                                                                      Adults with intellectual
disabilities and mental health disorders in primary care: a scoping review, British Journal of Genera! Practice,
72(716): el68-el78(2019). Diagnostic overshadowing in learning disability:
think beyond the disability. Progress in Neurology and Psychiatry, 23(2);^^^^^^^^^^(2004). 'Diagnostic
Overshadowing' Amongst Clinicians Working with People with Intellectual Disabilities in the UK. Journal of
Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities, 17(2): 85-90.
              et al. (2016). Intellectual disability health content within medical curriculum: an audit of what our
future doctors are taught. BMC Medical Education 16 (105):
8 Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2022). People with disability in Australia. Retrieved from
https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/disabilitv/people-with-disability-in-australia
9 According to a report published by UNSW and the Australian Council of Social Service, 1 in 6 people with
disability were living in poverty, compared with just 1 in 10 Australians without disability. See:
                                                           | (2018), Poverty in Australia 2018. ACOSS/UNSW Poverty
and Inequality Partnership Report No. 2, Sydney: ACOSS.
10^^^^M(2019). Inequalities in Standards of Living: Evidence
for Improved Income Support for People with Disability. NATSEM, Institute for Governance and Policy Analysis,
University of Canberra. Report commissioned by the Australian Federation of Disability Organisations.
September 2019.



                                                         8
    •    Households with an adult with profound or severe disability need an extra $173 per
         week on average over and above their 2015-16 net income, and

    •    Households with an adult with mild or moderate disability need an extra $87 per
         week on average.

In 2021, the Centre for Research Excellence in Disability and Health reported on the
intersection of disability and socioeconomic hardship. In this research, more than one in
three people with disability (34%) reported living in financial hardship compared to 14% of
people without disability.

The same report also showed that financial hardship is associated with a two-fold increase
in the experience of violence, regardless of disability status. This means people with
disability who report living in financial hardship are three times as likely to experience
violence than people without disability who report no financial hardship.

Income support for people with an intellectual disability
Recent data from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) reported that while
people with disability are as likely as people without disability to have an income, that
income is far more likely to come primarily from a government payment than from salary or
wages.11

Among people with disability, people with an intellectual disability are among the least likely
to receive an income from a wage or salary through employment: 72% of people with an
intellectual disability's main source of income comes from a government pension or
allowance, which for most people is the Disability Support Pension (DSP).


People with an intellectual disability report that the DSP doesn't cover the basics, such as a
place to live and food on the table, let alone the additional expenses related to living with
disability. In addition, any wages that people with an intellectual disability earn from
employment can impact on the amount they receive from the DSP.12 This means that




1143% or 780,000 people with disability aged 15-64 receive an income that comes primarily from government
support rather than from salary or wages, compared with 7.9% or 999,000 people without disability. See:
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. (2022). People with disability in Australia. Retrieved from
https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/disability/people-with-disability-in-australia
12 When people with an intellectual disability who receive the DSP earn an income, the amount of DSP they
receive changes. For income over the $190 per fortnight threshold, the DSP is reduced by 50c for each dollar
earned, known as the taper rate. If a person who receives the DSP earns over $2,243.00 per fortnight, they will
receive no DSP income for that fortnight. Both the threshold and the taper rate act as a significant disincentive
to work.
Services Australia (January 2023). Income test for pensions. Retrieved from:
www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/income-test-for-pensions?context=22276



                                                        9
people with an intellectual disability live close to the poverty line, according to the latest
Henderson's measure.13



How the COVID-19 pandemic disproportionately impacted people with an
intellectual disability and their families
It is well understood that people with disability, and specifically people with an intellectual
disability, are at much greater risk than the general population from the COVID-19
pandemic.14 This was and remains especially true for people in group residential settings, of
which people with an intellectual disability—including people with very complex needs—are
a high proportion.

Increased risks to people with an intellectual disability from COVID-19 are related to:

1.   Direct health risk

People with intellectual disability:
     •        Have higher mortality and morbidity if infected
             o Complications from and death rates due to COVID-19 for people with
                 intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD) are disproportionately
                 higher when compared to people without IDD15
     •   Are more likely to have the pre-existing health problems known to cause severe
         complications
             o Many of the risk factors that are associated with severe outcomes from
                 COVID-19 infection, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes and chronic lung
                 disease are common in adults with IDD16
     •   Are more likely to live in congregate settings which create the conditions for
         widespread transmission
     •        Are more likely to face health discrimination
             o COVID-19 healthcare rationing is already underway internationally, and
                 rationing rules published by overseas governments have demonstrated




13 Melbourne Institute for Applied Economic and Social Research (2022). Poverty Lines: Australia. Retrieved
from: Poverty-Lines-Australia-June-2022.pdf (unimelb.edu.au)
14 The Institute for Health Transformation, Deakin University. 2020. Gathering the Evidence: Data on People
with Intellectual Disability In Australia—A Report for Inclusion Australia. Retrieved from:
https://www.inclusionaustralia.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Our-Submissions 2020 10 Submission-
to-the-DRC-on-Data-on-lntellectual-Disability.pdf
15 American Academy of Developmental Medicine and Dentistry. 2020. COVID-19 Support Guidelines White
Paper. Retrieved from: https://www.aadmd.org/white-paper
16 Ibid.



                                                    10
                   increased use of Do Not Resuscitate Orders for people with intellectual
                   disability and limiting access to hospitals and ventilators17
             o There is an underlying, pervasive and often unquestioned devaluing of
                   people with disability that is termed 'ableism'. Given the greater risks faced
                   by older people with disability and First Peoples with disability, when ableism
                   intersects with ageism and/or or racism, it can result in aggravated forms of
                   discrimination and specific human rights violations that often mean lower
                   quality services, particularly when resources are scarce18
             o The 'invisibility' of people with disability, including intellectual disability is
                   demonstrated in the recent acknowledgement by Australia's Deputy Chief
                   Medical Officer of the absence of consideration of people with disability in
                   the Federal Government's initial COVID-19 Pandemic planning and in the fact
                   that the Commonwealth Department of Health lacks an area with
                   responsibility for the health of people with disabilities.19

2. Disability workforce issues


    •   The National Disability Services' Australian Disability Workforce Report (February
        2018)20 highlighted that the disability workforce had a large and growing casual
        workforce compared to other industries, resulting in high turnover and increased
        quality risks.
    •   The report, which was written pre-COVID-19, confirms the distinctive character of
        the disability workforce: a majority female, mainly part-time group of workers, over
        two-fifths of whom are casually employed.
    •   The report advocated for increased funding to support high-quality jobs, which
        would allow the sector to retain a skilled and experienced workforce.
    •   The casual nature of the workforce in aged care settings has been acknowledged as a
        significant risk vector for COVID-19 as it has meant that workers often need to work
        across multiple facilities to earn a living wage.
    •   Between May and June 2020, the Centre for Health Equity at Melbourne University
        conducted a national online survey of Disability Support Workers (DSWs). The


lz    ^^^^12020. 'Doctors facing grim choice over ventilators told to put patients with disabilities at the
back of the line'. The Conversation. Retrieved from: https://theconversation.com/doctors-facing-grim-choice-
over-ventilators-told-to-put-patients-with-disabilities-at-the-back-of-the-line-134884
18 Statement of Concern: COVID-19: Human rights, disability and ethical decision-making. Retrieved from:
https://dpoa.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/Statement-of-Concern-COVID-19-Human-rights-disability-
and-ethical-decision-making Final.pdf
     ^^^|2020. 'Health bureaucrat tells royal commission people with disabilities not mentioned in
coronavirus plan'. ABC News. Retrieved from: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-08-21/people-with-
disability-not-mentioned-government-covid-19-plan/12581858
20 National Disability Services. 2018. Australian Disability Workforce Report. Retrieved from:
https://www.nds.org.au/policy-library/australian-disability-workforce-report-second-edition-highlights-
workforce-risksl



                                                     11
        results, as summarised in a report titled Disability Support Workers: The Forgotten
        Workforce in COVID-19,21 found that of DSWs:
             o 53% provided support with tasks that require close personal contact like
                 feeding and brushing teeth
             o 23% had not received any COVID-19 infection control training
             o Of the 77% who did receive training, 48% would like more
             o 64% had received or purchased some form of personal protection equipment
                 (PRE). More than half (54%) received gloves and 37% masks from their
                 employer. Notably, 38% purchased their own masks
             o 23% had been tested for COVID-19 infection and 11% wanted to be tested
             o 14% worked for more than one provider and six per cent worked in both the
                 aged-care and disability sector
             o 30% worked in two or more settings, and 14% worked in three or more
                 settings
             o 27% cancelled shifts because they were worried about COVID-19 infection
                 and 35% had shifts cancelled by clients or employers due to fear of COVID-19
             o 16% reported high psychological distress levels consistent with serious
                 probable mental illness; 22% of workers experiencing financial stress had
                 probable mental illness, compared to 14% among those who did not report
                 financial problems.
             o The researchers made a number of recommendations, including:
                     ■    updating PRE guidelines
                     ■    proactively reaching out to DSWs so they can receive the required
                         training
                     ■    ensuring they have access to pandemic leave
                     ■    making sure expert health staff can provide back-up if needed.

3. Lack of coordination between state, territory and federal governments


    •   Our community's experience was that people with disability—and especially people
        with an intellectual disability—were not recognised or sufficiently including in the
        Commonwealth Government's public messaging about the COVID-19 pandemic or
        the response. While the needs and experiences of people with disability were
        discussed by state first ministers, we did not hear this community being
        acknowledged by the Prime Minister during his press conferences, and our
        community was not consulted in any meaningful way about their experiences and
        the solutions needed.



21 University of Melbourne. 2020. Disability Support Workers: The Forgotten Workforce in COVID-19. Retrieved
from: https://mspgh.unimelb.edu.au/centres-institutes/centre-for-health-equity/about-us/forgotten-




                                                     12
    •   As such, the pandemic starkly demonstrated how little governments—at every
        level—knew about the experiences, needs and rights of people with disability.
    •   Key among these 'unknowns' was where people with an intellectual disability were
        physically living and how they could be reached in an emergency. By and large, the
        government had no way of communicating with this cohort.
    •   We know that many people with an intellectual disability live in group homes run by
        large service providers: if those providers were registered under the NDIS, then the
        government had a means of communication. However, government had no way of
        reaching people living in unregistered Supported Independent Living (SIL)
        arrangements or other informal housing arrangements like boarding houses.
    •   This meant that one of the only ways for governments to communicate was via state
        guardians (for those under guardianship orders). It emerged that for many people
        this meant communication by post only, which meant weeks before people could
        receive and respond to communications.
    •   There was no alternative mechanism devised by government to communicate
        effectively (not least in accessible formats) with people with an intellectual disability
        (see #5 below).
    •   Noting the recently released recommendations from the NDIS Review—particularly
        Recommendation 17 in relation to the new model for the regulation of providers22—
        we recommend baseline enrolment (including ABN and registered address) for all
        organisations providing services funded by the NDIS. This is an important safety
        measure and risk mitigation measure in the event of other emergencies. We note
        this recommendation is controversial in the disability community and believe that
        any further decisions about registration and enrolment practices (other than
        baseline enrolment) should be developed through a thorough co-design process with
        Disability Representative Organisations.
    •   The rollout of the NDIS across Australia created problems with locating the
        boundaries of responsibility between the different levels of government. These
        difficulties arose because:
             o Aged care and disability services have been treated differently by
                 governments despite having similar funding, health and housing profiles and
                 risks;
             o Pre-NDIS, state governments were the disability service provider of last
                 resort for people with intellectual disabilities and took responsibility for
                 ensuring access to health, housing and support. During the pandemic, it was




22 NDIS Review. 2023. Working together to deliver the NDIS: Independent Review into the National Disability
Insurance Scheme. Retrieved from:
https://www.ndisreview.gov.au/sites/default/files/resource/download/working-together-ndis-review-final-
report.pdf. Pages 215-217.



                                                     13
               unclear who is accountable for emergency disability support worker
               assistance in a pandemic; and
           o In the absence of clearly articulated and considered government guidelines,
               service providers were left to make critical decisions on behalf of people with
               intellectual disabilities, placing both individuals and service providers at risk.

4. The increased risk of human rights breaches during the pandemic


   •   The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD),
       which was ratified by Australia in 2008, affirms that people with disability are
       entitled to the human rights due all human beings on an equal basis.
   •   The UNCRPD states that people with disability should enjoy the highest attainable
       standard of health, and be provided with health care and health services without
       discrimination.
   •   The UNCRPD also outlines that health care should be provided on the basis of free
       and informed consent, and there should be no discriminatory denial of health care,
       health services and food or fluids on the basis of impairment.
   •   During the pandemic, we expressed concern that supported decision-making for
       health choices and access to services as a result of COVID-19 arrangements has
       become non-existent for many people with intellectual disability.
   •   We were especially concerned that disability services were making decisions on
       behalf of people who do not have family or access to other advocacy support.
   •   During the pandemic, we also heard that many disability services were justifying
       restrictive practices, such as limiting visitors, outings and participation in other
       activities under the guise of precautionary welfare measures.
   •   There was a lack of oversight required to ensure any such decisions are necessary,
       lawful, and not in breach of human rights legislation.
   •   We also raised concerns that any such restrictive practices put into place in the
       name of pandemic protection may outlast the current pandemic and mean people
       with intellectual disability are denied their rights to enjoy the same freedoms,
       choices and quality of life as other Australians.

5. Lack of acoessible information and access to supported decision-making for people with
an intellectual disability
   •   People with an intellectual disability have a much lower level of health literacy
       compared to the general population.23 This is especially true for people with




23^|| et al. (2021). Promoting health literacy in people with intellectual disabilities via
explanatory videos: scoping reviews, Health Promotion International 193,
https://doi.org/10.1093/heapro/daabl93



                                               14
         complex communication support needs, such as those who communicate in ways
         other than speaking.
    •    An abundance of Australian and international research has demonstrated that health
         literacy is an important predictor of health status, and low health literacy is
         associated with poorer health outcomes.24
    •    Respectful and inclusive communication and information is a basic requirement for
        genuine informed consent to be provided by anyone receiving any kind of
         healthcare. It should be a basic expectation of all healthcare staff when treating
         people with an intellectual disability.
    •    One pathway to providing informed consent is through Supported Decision Making.
         Under Articles 3 and 4 and, more recently, Article 12 of the UNCRPD, which is about
         equal recognition before the law,25 all people have rights to make their own
         decisions, including the decision to change their mind.
    •    Supported decision-making is a way of thinking and relating to others that respects
         peoples' rights to make their own decisions—it assumes all people have the capacity
        to make their own decisions to the maximum extent possible.
    •    Yet the rights of people with an intellectual disability to make their own decisions is
         often ignored by medical professionals. For example, people with an intellectual
         disability reported being ignored by medical professional and have their family
         members or support workers expected to speak for them.26 It is common for
         information to be withheld from people with an intellectual disability based on the
         discriminatory assumption—whether intentional or not—that a person does not
         have the capacity to understand what a procedure involves or what kind of
        treatment options are available to them, and that they cannot make their own
         decisions or give informed consent.27
    •    Further, Inclusion Australia was a member of the Department of Health COVID
         Comms Working Group throughout and beyond the pandemic.
    •    In that group, we consistently called for more accessible materials but unfortunately
         found that progress on creating and disseminating those materials was either very
         slow or did not happen at all.
    •    The Easy Read documents that were made available tended to be published long
         after the originals were made available. They were then very hard to find on the
         Department of Health website.


24^H M., et al. (2020). Health Literacy regarding people with intellectual disability "Our right to a healthier
future." European Journal of Public Health, 30(Supplement_5). https://doi.org/10.1093/eurpub/ckaal66.473
25 Article 12 - Equal recognition before the law. United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with
Disabilities. Retrieved from: Article 12 - Equal recognition before the law | United Nations Enable
26 Inclusion Australia. (2020). Submission to the Disability Royal Commission -The Omnibus, p. 51-54.
Retrieved from: https://www.inclusionaustralia.org.au/submission/submission-to-the-drc-the-omnibus/
27 Inclusion Australia. (2020). Submission to the Disability Royal Commission -The Omnibus. Retrieved from:
https://www, inclusionaustralia.org.au/submission/submission-to-the-drc-the-omnibus/



                                                       15
    •    We also recommended the Department of Health develop short films such as our
         Living with COVID animation (which was funded through philanthropy). Topics
         suggested included:
             o the fear of medical appointments / managing needle-phobia
             o significant past traumas and anxieties people with an intellectual disability
                  and families have within the health system over a lifetime of inaccessible
                  services or traumatic experiences.
             o the increase in restrictive practices in group homes when COVID-19 was
                  present
             o what happens if you contract COVID-19.
    •    This idea was not taken up by the Department, who instead developed a video
         featuring people with a range of disabilities but which was not representative of the
         specific issues people with an intellectual disability were facing (and which continue
         to be relevant).
    •    We believe that this was a significant gap in the Commonwealth's COVID-19
         response, in terms of the provision of accessible information and recognition of the
         unique needs of people with an intellectual disability, as a subset of people with
         disability. This is part of a broader dedifferentiation approach by government which
         contributes to the ongoing invisibility of people with an intellectual disability and to
         the subsequent development of ineffective policy and practice.28




        notes that: 'For people with intellectual disabilities, dedifferentiation emphasises each individual's
needs and functional abilities and their membership of the generic group "people with disabilities," rather
than the impairement-specific group "people with intellectual disabilities.'"^^■(2020). Dedifferentiation
and people with intellectual disabilities in the Australian National Disability Insurance Scheme: Bringing
research, politics and policy together. Journal of Intellectual and Developmental Disability. DOI:
10.3109/13668250.2020.1776852.



                                                       16
