I’m a worker in the mining industry in Queensland.

During the period of the roll out of the Covid jabs, my employer,         mandated that employees
were to receive two jabs or they would be excluded from work sites.

Because the Federal Government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation, this allowed the
Federal Government to coerce the jabs while denying it was mandated.

In effect, despite health authorities now claiming that getting the jabs was a choice of the individual,
this actually meant that^^^mployees were forced to have these toxic injections, or lose their job.

Unlike many unfortunate recipients of these injections who have had serious adverse consequences
that have affected their health and well-being, including death, I seem to have suffered some side
effects that are relatively minor. I guess I’ve been lucky in that regard, although who knows what
may happen in the future ... certainly not anyone in any of the health authorities, government or the
pharmaceutical companies which rushed the release of these injections without the long-term trials
normally required for vaccines.

Provisionally registered medical products rely on adverse event reporting to build the safety profile
of the drug, so that if Government then censors and bullys people from criticising that drug, then the
system will be broken, killing people.

The requirements during the fake pandemic like the wearing of masks, known even before this
dictate was rolled out to have no beneficial or preventative effect on the transmission of a virus, the
constant PGR tests which are notoriously inaccurate, 1.5 metre marks on the floor, temperature tests
and other ludicrous measures like perspex screens at any public facing position. These screens may
have protected those behind them from a customer spitting at them, but were otherwise ridiculously
porous when it comes to being a barrier to a virus, and simply impeded verbal communication
requiring numerous repetition of requests, especially when the speaker was also required to wear a
mask.

For more information about the disaster that was the roll-out of the injections, please read this
article.

Basically, the best actions a Government should take in future is to ignore everything that was done
during the Corona farce, focus less on controlling the population and more on preventative
measures like the use of effective and safe drugs like ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine, both of
which, strangely were banned in Australia to protect the income of ‘Big Pharma’.
