COVID-19 Response Inquiry. 15 December 2023
Submission:
The Federal government mismanaged many aspects of the covid emergency.

The Federal government had a pandemic plan/ policy in place that in short, was to look after the vulnerable
and keep the economy moving.
This policy was ignored in favour of the World Health Organisations pandemic policy which was to lock
everybody down and inject them. I believe there is evidence of money changing hands to make this happen.

The Federal government wasted billions in taxpayers’ dollars on a form of protection that was untried at the
time and overtime has shown to have a very low rate of effectiveness.
The Government statistics from the beginning showed that the elderly, infirm and those with comorbidities
were the main people affected by this respiratory disease.
The Federal government has let down all of the younger generations by condoning State injection mandates
for these younger people if they were to continue in the Australian way of life as we know it.

The Federal government is responsible for the mental health issues and the high suicide rate that stemmed
from the unlawful lockdowns.
The Federal government showed a systemic weakness by not intervening in the lockdowns especially the
draconian Victorian lockdowns.

The Federal government did not protect the rights of the people of Australia and they did not protect the health
of the people of Australia.

The Federal government did not take responsibility for the wellbeing of the Australian people and handed the
responsibility of the pandemic to the state and territory governments like a hot potato.
The Federal government washed the hands of their responsibility that they had been elected to do and this is
seen as a treasonous act by many.

Again, the Federal government did not protect the citizens of Australia who under Federal law cannot be
coerced to take an experimental medicine.
The Federal government let the Australian people down by unlawfully allowing the states and territories to
mandate the covid injections.

So much information is now coming out on how the actions of all levels of government, Federal, State,
Territory and local were incorrect, manipulated and manipulating.
There will be a time of Reckoning for all of those people who were in on the scam. There may be another
Nuremberg Style cleansing.

In summary the people of Australia have lost trust and respect in all governments, in the medical system, the
doctors, the law enforcement agencies and the paid propaganda media machine across Australia and this is the
fault of the Federal government.

The Federal government must put in place legislation that ensures that our elected representatives follow the
Commonwealth Constitution, not give away our human rights, make informed decisions, encourage debate
and not be part of or condone censorship or the cancel culture of imminent experts who have a differing view
of the Federal government.
The Federal government must ensure that those people who are vaccine injured, had or have had debilitating
effects after having the vaccine are swiftly and fairly compensated by the government.
Sources: Australian Government; ABS, VAERS, TGA all information is freely available and must be true as on
a government site©
