    Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Terms of Reference
    Submission made by Janet Robinson to the Independent Panel

        1.           Background

    I am a former Safey and Wellbeing Advisor who was employed by Queensland Health in the Safety and
    Wellbeing team. This team is responsible for maintaining the Safety Management System (SMS) for the
    whole of Queensland Health. The team is also responsible for providing advice to the Chief Human
    Resources Officer, the Director-General and if required, to the Health Minister, on the application of
    work, health and safety (WHS) related legislation as it relates to Queensland Health. It also provides
    advice and support to the WHS teams and others in each of the Hospital and Health Services throughout
    the state. I hold a Bachelor of Science (Environmental Health) and a Graduate Certificate in Emergency
    Management. I have worked as an Environmental Health Officer in both a regulatory and policy advisor
    capacity in state and local government.

    My background, role and personal experience has given me a direct insight into how COVID response
    measures, particularly at a state level, has impacted individuals and communities.

        2.           Submission details

    The inquiry terms of reference make it clear that actions taken by state and territory governments are
    outside of the scope of the inquiry. Ultimately, it was state and territory governments who laid down the
    rules for the management of the pandemic response, yet this inquiry will not investigate critical factor. It
    is both objectionable and grossly unjust and insulting to the people who were vaccine injured or lost
    jobs, their lives, loved ones, or businesses due to vaccine mandates and other pandemic response
    measures mandated by the architects of the state public health legislation.

    If this inquiry makes but one recommendation, it must be that the Royal Commission which Prime
    Minister Albanese promised in 2022, must be held. Matters that must be investigated by this inquiry in
    order to give weight to such a recommendation must include, but not be limited to:
    1. The lack of transparency in relation to how policy decisions related to COVID-19 and potentially
       future pandemics, were made.
    2. How these decisions impacted governance, media messaging, implementation of existing pandemic
       management process and disregard for existing statutory frameworks, in particular human rights,
       WHS, and industrial relations laws. Among the issues that must be investigated and addressed are:

        •    Australia's membership with the United Nations, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and
             the COVAX AMC commitment

        As a member state of the UN and consequentially, the WHO, Australia has agreed to conform to the
        constitution of the WHO. This means following rules of procedure and any other policies or
        commitments set out by the Health Assembly and other UN bodies1 including the COVID-19 Vaccines
        Advance Market Commitment (COVAX AMC)2. While in all likelihood there are many matters that
        need close scrutiny, the requirement to indemnify manufacturers and others from serious adverse
        events resulting from the COVID vaccines is of particular interest3. Agreement to this indemnity has
        potentially had a ripple effect in the way people who claim to have been vaccine injured have been
        treated by health systems, health practitioners and the Australian government. Beyond this it
        potentially it also is at the centre of how Australian regulatory bodies have behaved and the lack of
        coverage by the media on the stories of the vaccine injured and other pandemic matters.


1 World Health Organisation - Basic Documents Forty-ninth edition
2 GAVI COV     <XM(
3 COVAX Briefing Note: Additional Information on Indemnification for COVAX AMC Participants

                                                                                                               1
         •            National Cabinet and the action of state and territory governments

        National Cabinet presumably made coordinated decisions in relation to management of the
        pandemic. However, ultimately management actions were, (and are), the remit of the states and
        territories through their public health legislation. This meant each state and territory adopted its
        own method for identifying and managing perceived pandemic risks and threats. Every state and
        territory's pandemic plan should detail various risk levels and subsequent management strategies
        and should have been actioned accordingly. Where necessary, public health legislation should align
        with these plans and set out relevant powers and other measures to support the actioning of
        pandemic plans. However, these systematic processes seemed to fall by the wayside in favour of
        advice from the WHO and other bodies, and policy on the hop. The messaging given at the Federal
        level and that given by the state and territories were often at odds. National Cabinet meetings were
        cloaked in secrecy and the populace were hostage to the whims of their Premiers and Chief Health
        Officers. The details of meetings held by the National Cabinet must be made public and steps taken
        to ensure that future meetings of this nature are transparent. Additionally, there should also be
        representation from the opposition in the National Cabinet. This will eliminate the shift of blame and
        ensure that all parties are accountable for the decisions made.
         •            Deviation from existing pandemic plans

        Pandemic plans have been in place for many years. Yet, faced with a pandemic, Australia seemed to
        shelve these plans and take on the measures being implemented in other countries regardless of
        whether these were relevant for the Australian situation. The inquiry must investigate why existing
        plans were abandoned and why health systems seemed to be impotent to react at the start of the
        pandemic. It must also examine whether simulation or desktop exercises were held prior to the
        pandemic to identify gaps and ensure preparedness, such things as fit testing programs for PPE for
        health care workers and stocks of PPE and medical supplies.

         •            The Australian Government's COVID-19 vaccine procurement and approval processes

        Unproven vaccines and vaccine technology were given provisional approval by the TGA. These
        approvals by-passed appropriate scrutiny including, in the case of the mRNA vaccines, approval by
        the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator. These 'emergency use' approvals paved the way for
        mandatory vaccination of particular groups within the population leading to job losses, injuries and
        death. Additionally, preference seemed to be given to large pharmaceutical companies while local
        researchers and vaccine developers were not supported4. At a time where UN member states
        blocked vaccine shipments to Australia and delivery of supplies generally were unpredictable, it
        seems inconceivable that the Government did not support local vaccine development5. Questions
        must also be asked about the lawfulness of Italy and the EU's actions.

         •            The role of the TGA, AHPRA and ATAGI

        These bodies have collectively been instrumental in preventing health professionals from carrying
        out their duties to their patients to the best of their ability6. I personally sought a vaccine exemption
        because I have an auto-immune condition which is in remission, and I was fearful that the vaccine
        would trigger a relapse. My specialist advised that due to the limitations on exemptions established
        by ATAGI I was not eligible for an exemption7. Additionally, only certain health practitioners are able
        to provide vaccine exemptions8. This completely ignores the individual at the centre of the
        procedure and disregards the individual's health risks. These bodies have also given advice and made
        recommendations that created fear and misled the Australian public and led to restrictions on the

4       rticle: Coronavirus vaccine developer urges federal funding for promising candidate after UQfailure.
5 ire slew EU first as Italy block export of 250,00 COVID vaccines to Australia.
6 AMPS: Phelps Breaks AHPRA's Culture of Fear
7 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care COVID-19 Vaccine Exemptions.
8 Australian Government Services Australia Immunisation medical exemptions

                                                                                                               2
        off-label use of medications such as ivermectin to prevent and/or treat COVID-19 — a restriction
        that has now been removed 910.

        •            The appropriateness of management strategies

        As mentioned previously, each state and territory is responsible for assessing pandemic risks and
        implementing management strategies. Governments should demonstrate how risks were assessed
        and risk control measures justified. A fundamental tenet of risk management is to ensure that risk
        control measures adopted do not introduce new risks. In the case of pandemic management this
        should consider not only whether the control measures implemented control the spread of the
        disease, but whether they introduce other risks, threats or create other issues, the consequences of
        which, may have more lasting and damaging implications than the disease itself. The Australian
        public was expected to accept all risk management strategies, regardless of how inadequate or
        inappropriate they were. The inquiry must investigate the short and long-term impacts of risk
        management strategies implemented by the states and territories.

        I personally resigned from my job in February 2022 due to the implementation of a HR policy
        mandating the COVID-19 vaccine and any subsequent boosters. The policy cited "workplace health
        and safety obligations" as the reason for its implementation. However, the team I was a part of, was
        not consulted during the development of this policy. In fact, the organisation's SMS and indeed WHS
        laws, were completely ignored. Request for information to the very highest level of my department
        yielded an insultingly unsatisfactory response. To not comply with the policy, meant that disciplinary
        action would be taken in the form of dismissal. This, despite there not having been any requirement
        to be vaccinated at the height of the pandemic. My work history has been unblemished, so I
        resigned rather than be sacked because of an ill-conceived and, in my opinion, non-compliant,
        excessive and misleading policy. The policy has recently been repealed.
        Consequences such as the loss of workers in front-line roles due to such policies and the ongoing
        impact to service delivery is one of the more critical issues that require thorough scrutiny. Others
        include vaccine injuries, personal privacy, mental health impacts and job and economic losses.

        •    Discharge of duties by the Human Rights Commission, Fair Work Australia and other
             workplace health and safety and industrial relations regulators and tribunals

        The function of these bodies is to independently inquire into, investigate and/or hear matters within
        their jurisdiction. Complaints and issues brought before these entities seemed to be largely ignored
        or generally found in favour of the government narrative. There was disregard for the law, the
        reasonableness of risk management measures and most importantly, valid consent as described in
        the Australian Immunisation Handbook9     10
                                                  11. There are many stories of people who got vaccinated
        under threat of losing their job, only to end up with debilitating health conditions that resulted in
        them not being able to work as a result12. The separation of powers also needs to be investigated.
        The punitive measures meted out to FWC Deputy President Lyndall Dean in the matter of Jennifer
        Kimber v Sapphire Coast Community Aged Care Ltd (C2021/2676), for her dissenting judgement and
        criticism of the measures being taken in response to COVID-19 are a case in point.
Sincerely,

Janet Robinson.
15 December 2023.



9 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care: New restrictions on prescribing ivermectin for COVID-19
10 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care: Removal of prescribing restriction on ivermectin
11 Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care: Australian Immunisation Handbook: Preparing for
vaccination -             valid consent
12 Jab Injuries Global: Australia

                                                                                                                  3
