Thank you for the opportunity to respond to the Covid 19 Inquiry. Please note that this inquiry is
totally inadequate for the task that must be addressed. Nothing short of a Royal Commission is
needed to uncover the governmental and bureaucratic deceptions that were perpetrated on the
Australian people from early 2020 to the present day.

I became suspicious of the mischief in the third week of the two weeks' lockdown to flatten the
curve!

The terms of reference for this inquiry are too narrow. They ignore the bullying tactics of State
Premiers, Health Ministers and other bureaucrats who must face justice for their criminal
behaviour in forcing Australians to comply with               decrees.

At the very least, what must be uncovered is who knew what and when. Prime Minister, Scott
Morrison, and his unconstitutional National Cabinet, which has the brazen effrontery to continue
to this day, must be brought to justice^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^. It was outrageous that
Australians were prevented from returning to their homes and prevented from visiting dying
family members and attending their funerals.

The nature of the so-called vaccines must be investigated and the injuries caused by them must
be compensated, although that is difficult in the case of fatalities. What price is a life? A State
funeral is only a cynical compensation. Evidence now abounds to prove the ‘vaccines’


The WHO and Dr Fauci have many questions to answer but our purpose here is to detect who
are the complicit minions here in Australia who were coerced or freely agreed (no doubt with
lucrative incentives) to betray the Australian people with mandates, lockdowns and dictatorial
decrees. Too many of our politicians and unelected bureaucrats or their relatives have lucrative
connections to Big Pharma. What a disgrace!

Australians do not want the whitewash of this proposed Covid Inquiry. Nothing short of a Royal
Commission will suffice to satisfy the demands of a democratic society such as Australia is
supposed to be.

Thank you.
