Dear Committee

I will be direct from the outset, I have never been more disgusted by the behaviour of
government than what I experienced from 2020-2022. Regardless of what level of
government or public servant.

Firstly economic sanctions were enacted against much of the Australian public; these being
the forced closure of businesses. People were incarcerated in their homes/suburbs and
could not travel outside their locale to provide for themselves or family.
Economic sanctions are an act of war and usually the first step in a hostile act and this was
the governmental response.
The federal government then provided COVID payments which only perpetuated the
economic warfare as this has created the inflation crisis. Inflation is an increasing amount of
money chasing a finite amount of goods. The increasing amount of money which entered
the market place was not from wealth generation or work but from the government printing
press so to speak. This federal money also encouraged bad state government behaviour

The mental health crisis created due to lockdowns was almost equivalent to solitary
confinement especially for those who lived alone. There is a reason this is considered
punishment.

Public health officials conduct; the famous catch cry to defend their actions "This is for
public health" let me say this is one of the greatest oxy morons, I've ever heard. Any doctor
to make this statement deserves to have the medical licence removed. The first rule of
medicine is do no harm. The scientific method as practiced in medicine is to treat the
symptoms of the patient in front of you. Public health is made of individuals and there is
only individual health. If we as a society were treated respectfully as individuals the public
health would follow. The issue is government in their response to COVID could not treat the
public in this manner ergo it was always doomed to fail. The PMO/PHO should only issue
advice not dictates.

The health advice around masks is completely unscientific and offers no protection against
the virus. The average size of a COVID particle is 1 micron far smaller than nearly every mask
worn by the public is capable of stopping. To emphasise this issue if I was employed on a
work site that contained asbestos and I was wearing anything less than a P2 mask a Work
Cover inspector would be seeking to prosecute my employer for failure to provide the
appropriate PPE. Asbestos is a dry contaminant as opposed to COVID implying that a P2
mask is still not acceptable protection. I'm happy to provide dozens of peer reviewed studies
on the ineffectiveness of masking when dealing with respiratory viruses. (Sorry but given the
late discovery of this enquiry I'm unable to due to time constraints).

In closing Sweden has proven their response was far more appropriate as the mortality rate
from 2020-2023 is far lower than that suffered by Australia on a per capita basis.

Kind regards
