As a person who was financially disadvantaged and discriminated against by measures imposed
by our governments via an unconstitutional, secretive, and illegal "National Cabinet", I would like
my voice heard.

Having worked T1 years within the health sector, it was very evident early on that COVID was not
about "HEALTH"! When you watch as those with chronic illnesses are denied health care and
turned away, sent home, or offered "telehealth" appointments as they struggled with their
conditions (many dying at home), I was ashamed to be part of that sector! There was no longer
"care" associated with health. Then came the "mandates" for an untested product that not even
my employer could give answers to the questions I had. What ever happened to "INFORMED
CONSENT" when it comes to a medical procedure?? This was pumped into all employees prior to
COVID! A patient MUST be able to give informed consent and NOT be coerced.

"COERCION IS NOT CONSENT"

The National Cabinet was a total farce (until all documents and minutes are released, it will
remain the tool for destroying lives, businesses, and our country)!

Technically National Cabinet should never have been formed let alone had the power to engage
"bureaucrats" (generally linked to big pharma and the UN, again unelected bureaucrats!) to
dictate national and state responses. To close businesses, boarders and lock people within their
own homes and destroy lives!



The so called "key health measures" again failed Australians!

"Modelling" by "universities" and "institutes" with links to and funding from industry that
financially benefited from "lockdowns" and "mandatory" measures, that was paid for by the
taxpayer, was grossly "inaccurate"!! Data supplied by the same industries regarding "safety and
efficacy" has also proven inaccurate! The TGA are a group of unelected bureaucrats all with links
back to the same industry, conflict of interest runs deep at very level!

Masks have been proven to be ineffective in preventing spread and in fact now many studies
prove how bad they are for health if used long term (all in the health profession know full well
that general paper and cloth masks are useless at anything other than stopping hair and skin
particles contaminating sterile areas.)

One knows there is something fishy afoot when effective and safe drugs that have decades of
safety data are BANNED from use over an experimental concoction! And health professionals
sent an email from unelected bureaucrats effectively "banning them" from speaking against
anything but the government narrative (Yes I received such an email that threatened me with
disciplinary action including termination if I spoke against it., oh yes, we live in a democratic
society... NOT!) Then there was the vaccine mandate that actually cost me my employment of Tl
years! I was terminated for "serious misconduct" that's right, for refusing to comply with
something that should be within the "doctor/patient privilege and informed consent" categories!

Unelected bureaucrats and those who could not give me answers to reasonable questions, saw it
necessary to dictate a "one fits all" approach. As a result, I know many who now have long term
health issues, and then there is the excess deaths (of course the ABS has now changed the way
they calculate these, nothing like a bit of data manipulation), yet those who imposed these
measures still fail to address the elephant in the room!
Our small businesses should never have been close but large corporates allowed to stay open
even given taxpayer subsidies!! Nor should our internal boarders be closed at the whim of
power-hungry dictator premiers! (as Australians we have a RIGHT to unhindered free passage
within our own country!)

Police roles are to "protect the people" from crime (damage to person or property!) NOT
become am enforcement arm for a political agenda! (given that basically all cases and fines in
Victoria have been dropped, it is very evident that "health directions" have no legal standing!)

Our children suffered immensely, not just socially but academically! As a mother of a^^^|
student at the start of the first "lockdown", the effect this had on our children is beyond the
comprehension of anyone who did not go through it! NOTHING was gained and much was lost.
NAPLAN results and youth suicide increases are evidence of this!

Protect the venerable but let others live their lives!

As warned and now proven, mass vaccination only leads to variant mutation. Allow the young
and healthy to acquire natural immunity!

The money that the commonwealth spent on this bogus response to a flu will see our children
and possibly grandchildren paying for the unjustified debt.

The fear campaign that was pushed and is still being pushed at both commonwealth and state
level is ridiculous!

I call for all involved and their family members to be screened for conflicts of interest and
financial gain with those who profited most during the past 3 years (big company and big
pharma)!

This whole "scamdemic" response had been hidden in secrecy! There has been no transparency
with Australians. It turned out to be nothing more than a massive control exercise to see how
much the people would let the government get away with! THIS CANNOT BE ALLOWED TO
HAPPEN AGAIN!
