                 SUBMISSION TO COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

Thank you to the panel for this opportunity to contribute to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry. I note you are
encouraging a wide range of stakeholder views and I make my submission as a university-employed academic,
parent, COVID-literate citizen, and member of advocacy group Cleaner Air Collective. My submission meets the
scope of the inquiry in addressing governance/governance mechanisms and health response measures.

Before proceeding I make the important point that although COVID-19 is no longer considered a Public Health
Emergency of International Concern, WHO recognises that the COVID-19 pandemic has r ot ended and that it is
unlikely to be declared over in the near term. Indeed, currently Australia is experiencing yet another significant
COVID wave, its third in 2023, and the JN.l variant is causing exponential growth in cases worldwide. Therefore,
my submission refers to timeframes comprising both the past and the present, and it extends to preparedness for
future outbreaks.1

Governance and governance mechanisms

Transparency and accountability

The UK COVID-19 Inquiry's revelations that key government measures (such as Eat Out to Help Out) were not
science-informed but, rather, based on economic motives highlight the potential for secret government decisions
taken during a health emergency to erode political trust. (This scheme drove die UK's secc : COVID wave.)
Political trust, based on the understanding that a government is both competent and honest, is achieved in large
part through transparency. A transparent government makes available information on matters of public concern,
so the government can be held e         table.

During this ongoing pandemic, Australians' lives have been impacted (even harmed) by countless decisions taken
by governance bodies such as National Cabinet, AHPPC and ATAGI.23For example, interconnected decisions made
by AHPPC and National Cabinet have led to the steady removal of mitigations that curb COVID transmission (such
as isolation requirements), and a push towards business as usual (involving the removal of testing and reporting
requirements, and mask mandates being dropped in healthcare). Similarly, ATAGI's decisions with regard to
vaccination eligibility continue to restrict access to vaccines, even though there is good evidence that vaccination
offers some protection against both seve*e disease and Long COVID, and is safe and effective for very young
children.

To enhance transparency and accountability, I call upon the panel to recommend that the minutes of meetings
involving National Cabinet, AHPPC and ATAGI be made public, both retrospectively (to the beginning of 2020) and
thereafter. Being able to scrutinise these minutes will enable Australians to verify that decisions made by these
bodies were/are evidence-based and fully justified.

Representation within governance bodies

A complex public health challenge such as a pandemic demands agile and interdisciplinary leadership. When
COVID-19 erupted in early 2020 health agencies including the WHO maintained that the virus was spread mostly
through droplets produced during coughing, sneezing or speaking, and that distancing (> Im), hand washing and
surface cleaning would stop transmission. By April 2021 WHO had admitted that COVID is airborne, but AHPPC's
statement acknowledging aerosol transmission did not appear until October that year. Even today, many
Australians remain focussed on handwashing, which is not surprising when state Chief Health Officers still
prioritise this in their messaging, and whi                                                    sontinues to say
that COVID-19 is primarily spread through droplets.




11 note that during the launch of this inquiry, Dr. Angela Jackson said: "We have the benefit that we're not in the middle of a
pandemic"; it is disappointing and puzzling that this inquiry panel member did not acknowledge that the pandemic is still active.
2 AHPCC (Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) includes all state and territory Chief Health Officers and is chaired by
the Chief Medical Officer (CMO); ATAGI (Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) advise the Health Minister on the
medical administration of vaccines available in Australia.
3ICEG (The Infection Control Expert Group) provides expert advice/information on infection prevention and control to the AHPPC.
This misdirected focus may not have occurred if government had taken early advice from world leadingB
                                                                        |that COVID is airborne.|
IBMIhM led an interdisciplinary effort (with representatives from aerosol physics, virology, public health, clinical
medicine, infection prevention and control, building engineering and facility management) to petition WHO and
alert the world to airborne transmission. But while^ijJ                                              /v
                                 | she was never given a seat at the table to inform Australia's pandemic response.
Even as airborne transmission became evident through hotel quarantine leaks, aerosol scientists, engineers,
occupational hygienists and multidisciplinary environmental health experts were lot added to fixed government
advisory bodies.

Instead, successive federal governments have deferred to "health advice" from the AHPPC (informed by ICEG) and
the Chief Medical Officer. Members of ICEG have backgrounds in clinical medicine, infection control, clinical
microbiology and infectious diseases - disciplines without a strong history of understanding aerosol science. This
has not given, and will not give, Australia the best chance to respond to an airborne pandemic. Concerningly, too,
the government has closed itself off from independent advice, such as from multidisciplinary expert body OzSAGE.
Indeed, world-renowned epidemiologist!                                has revealed that the government perceived
OzSAGE's 2021 formation with hostility and she was forced to choose between being on a government COVID
research committee and being on OzSAGE (she chose the latter).4 OzSAGE has gone on to release ? '..v'
docur lents that are highly valuable for Australians wishing to protect themselves from COVID's dangers, yet
successive governments have failed to make use of this group or their resources.

To meet the challenges of this ongoing pandemic and prepare for new threats the panel should recommend that
the government takes evidence-based advice from independent experts with a broad range of capabilities;
OzSAGE is fit for this purpose. Over-reliance on advice from the largely homogeneous, ICEG-informed AHPPC is
unsound practice. Furthermore, dependence on one individual - as occurred when CMO Paul Kelly handed down
the National COVID-19 Health Management Plan (the "National : "), which directed Australia's COVID approach
for 2023 - pins policy to an irresponsibly narrow frame of thought.

Health response measures

Public health messaging

CMO Kelly's 2022 reassurance that "hybrid immunity" - built up via widespread infection and vaccination - would
result in lower COVID risks for the Australian public has not been borne out. The pandemic continues to impact
us, causing deaths, acute disease and hospitalisations, and also long COVID and post-COVID conditions. In keeping
with the CMO's optimistic spin, the federal government officially refers to the pandemic in the past tense, has
reduced data collection/publication, and government ministers (including the Health Minister) very rarely address
the issue publicly - all of which reinforce the narrative that the pandemic is over and/or COVID is an infection not
to be concerned about. Yet, COVID-19 continues to evolve, and prior immunity (through infection or vaccination)
does not protect against new variants. COVID reinfection in particular has been linked to adverse health conditions
in multiple organ systems, and there is mounting evidence that it causes immune dysfunction, leaving people
vulnerable to a range ofc thei infectio s (including Group A Streptococcus and tuberculosis). COVID has also been
shown to be more damaging than influenza, with COVID patients more likely to develop long-term complications.
Concerningly, there is considerable evidence that children are at significant risk of multi-system Long COVID, and
SARS-CoV-2 exposure in utero (during maternal infection) has been associated with neurodevelopmental
impairment in - es.

Overall, our present pandemic situation is an endless infection environment, and it behoves the government to
act decisively in communicating to Australians the actual hazards of this disease. Whether initial symptoms are
mild is of limited importance, as evidence shows that cumulative effects are becoming more germane. As well as
strong public health campaigns, Australians need clear and direct statements from the Health Minister. Examples
from other countries include Germa!' Hea t .’..L-rster Karl Lauterbach's recent update on COVID, in which he
declared that COVID "is not a cold," and that the dangers of infection are "being underestimated." Similarly,
                                        I this week advised that even mild cases of SARS-CoV-2 can lead to Long
COVID, that the threat increases with multiple infections, and that it is best to avoid infection. (This statement


4 Raina MacIntyre, Dark Winter (Sydney: New South, 2022), 132-33.
                                                                                                                   2
followed S tCa 's report that people with 3+ infections were 2.6 times more likely to report prolonged symptoms
than those with one infection.) Messaging such as this is needed to correct the misinformation (tied to CMO Kelly's
call for Australia to move away from COVID exceptionalism) that COVID is of little consequence.

Prevention: Safe air

Airborne risks to health such as COVID-19 need to be mitigated through appropriate mechanisms. To act upon the
certainty that Australia's COVID illness burden will increase (causing further labour shortages, especially in high
transmission contexts such as schools), the government must shift towards a prevention strategy based on safe
air. The importance of breathing clean air needs to be clearly communicated, and national indoor air quality
standards must be developed. Indeed, the latter was recommended in the April 2023 Report from the Long COVID
and Repeated COVID Infections Inquiry; I note that some eight months later Health Minister Butler is yet to
respond. That inquiry's committee also recommended that government "establish and fund a multidisciplinary
advisory body including ventilation experts, architects, aerosol scientists, industry, building code regulators and
public health experts" to oversee/assess "the impact of poor indoor air quality" especially in high-risk areas such
as hospitals, aged care, childcare and educational settings. Again, this has not been acted upon, and should be as
a matter of urgency. But even as we wait for these steps, safe air measures such as improved ventilation and air
filtration can and should be widely promoted and officially endorsed. The Victorian government's "Gui        nes for
Optimising Ventilation to Reduce the Risk of Transmission of COVID-19 in Healthcare Settings" can be used as
model and promoted broadly as applicable to all indoor settings. Such measures will provide a level of protection
for at-risk people (who number many) so that they can safely participate in society. Contrary to general belief,
these people do not and cannot exist in a separated bubble; they have jobs, children in schools, and, like all
citizens, need to regularly enter public spaces for all manner of reasons.

Special attention, however, must be paid to health and aged care, due to the particular vulnerabilities associated
with these settings. Given that hospital acquired COVID infections are a major issue across Australia, with a 10%
mortality rate according to Victorian data, patients' rights to safe healthcare, as guaranteed by the Austra
Charter of Healthcare Rights, are routinely being violated. Recognition of the primacy of airborne infection
controls and attention to indoor air quality would reduce the risk of COVID infection in healthcare, as would a
strict requirement that high-quality masks be worn in all areas. Similarly, along with improvements in indoor air
quality, mandated high-quality masks in aged care (with compliance supervised) would be a step towards
addressing the dire COVID situation therein. Despite the Department of Health claiming to support aged care
providers to prevent and manage COVID-19, between January and November 2023 there were over 6,000
outbi       of COVID in aged care facilities, resulting in around five deaths per day. This represents abject
government failure in this space.

Vaccines

It is fair to say that although the National Plan for 2023 focussed heavily on "ensuring adequate supply of, and
access to, safe and effective vaccines," this government has let Australians down in the area of COVID vaccinations.
As well as the lack of transparency around ATAGI's decision-making rationale with regard to eligibility (across age
ranges and time frames), access is strangely restricted for groups allowed vaccination in other countries, and there
is a too-slow approval/access process for updated vaccines. Bivalent vaccines continue to be recommended when
they are no longer authorised in countries such as USA, there is poor provision of options (such as Novavax) for
those who cannot tolerate mRNA technologies, and clear messaging (both to promote uptake and around
eligibility) has not been forthcoming.

In 2022 the Albanese government commissioned Professor Jane Halton to conduct an independent review into
Australia's vaccine procurement systems and, although the government committed to "carefully consider" her
recommendations, many (if not most) have not been implemented. These recommendations in             led: "the need
for public health campaigns around vaccine uptake,... the streamlining of advisory structures, a review of vaccine
distribution arrangements, and the need to ensure adequate supplies of... vaccines across 2023 and 2024." These
failures have serious health repercussions for Australians and need to be urgently redressed. To enable Australians
to become optimally vaccinated, Professor Halton should be reappointed to lead an urgent overhaul of Australia's
COVID vaccine systems, and this overhaul should not exclude the possible replacement of ATAGI with a refreshed
body whose members are without political or commercial conflicts of interest.


                                                                                                                  3
