Covid-19 inquiry
   excessive fear-based media and advertising creating false beliefs about risks. For example
   for some people who refused vaccination their employers or co-workers expressed bizarre
   false beliefs such as my 25 year old nephew told by employer "do you realise if you get it
   (covid-19) you have a 25% chance of dying?, my 22 year old niece told "if you get it and
   pass it to (co-worker missing his spleen) you will give him a worse case? (This at an
   outdoor agricultural job which actually had minimal possibility of transmission).
   Many people, including me (nursing for 35 years) lost jobs due to vaccine mandates. I have
   never refused vaccines in the past, including taking fluvax for the last thirty years. While I
   had some concerns about the risks of a novel vaccine my main objection was
   the aborted fetal cell line link. I believe the government should have allowed conscientious
   objection as an option and/or made available a non-abortion tainted vaccine. For a brief
   period people were able to privately (at great cost) import a vaccine from India but the
   TGA shut down that avenue. (This was a vaccine that was approved for people coming
   from India into Australia).
   Many people, particularly in Victoria, (including two of my brother in laws, a cousin and
   several nieces and nephews) were vaccinated very much against their will, they had no
   choice as they needed to keep their jobs to feed their families and/or travel interstate to
   spend time with a dying relative. (Victoria: most definitely NOT the place to be during
   COVID).
   Even now situations arise such as my nephew who was offered a new job in IT a couple of
   months ago then discovered while filling out the paperwork that COVID vaccination was
   required, and my niece who was signing up for an art course last week which also required
   COVID vaccination.
   My brother died of an unexpected heart attack during COVID and the restrictions around
   the funeral and supporting the grieving family were cruel.
   My mother was uninvited to her sibling's Christmas celebration in 2021 as her brother
   decided he and his wife wouldn't attend any events with unvaccinated people as
   encouraged by state messaging (which put it on mum not to attend).
   One of my mum's sisters has had ongoing health issues her doctor says are related to her
   covid vaccine.
   Since COVID many people have increased anxiety in social situations as a result of
   lockdowns and accompanying messaging that being with others was dangerous, including
   my mum and several other relatives and friends.
   My friends had to get permission from the government to leave the country to go to her
   parents who were hospitalised with COVID in Italy, adding to the stress of the situation.
   Due to the massive overreach in messaging and control of the population we now have
   much less trust in doctors, police and politicians. I don't know how that trust can be
   restored.
