  Submissions and evidence to the C OVID-19 Response
                       Inquiry

                                                                             | 13/12/2023

Hi,

My name           I am a family man, and I     | ^ars old. I live in        I resided
in Melbourne during the COVID-19 pandemic. I wanted to take this opportunity given to
me here to express my thoughts on this tragedy that has affected us.

During the pandemic, between 2020 and 2022, I was a student studying from home, and
my wife worked in the early childhood sector. I can say that I consider myself fortunate
because I was only minimally impacted by the government measures against COVID,
except for the lockdowns and curfews that affected us all, preventing us from going out for
fresh air and exercise as we would have liked, which would have been beneficial for our
health.

However, my wife faced a difficult choice between being laid off or accepting the
COVID-19 vaccine. As she knew that these vaccines were still in the experimental phase,
she sought advice from her general practitioner. Since her doctor refused to commit to the
safety and effectiveness of the vaccine, my wife bravely declined to get vaccinated and
was subsequently terminated.

This decision led to a series of challenging events on a personal, family, and financial
level. But what justifies behaving like a laboratory guinea pig when informed and
voluntary consent is not provided? My wife made the right choice. She is convinced, and
so am I because:

- We now know that the measures taken at the time were counterproductive in terms of
health: lockdowns do more harm than good and do not prevent the spread of the virus.
Instead, they contribute to domestic violence, depression, and family estrangement with
disastrous emotional consequences

- Masks have not been proven effective. In fact, numerous studies show that they are
ineffective in preventing the transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus

- We also know that vaccines are not effective because they do not prevent the
transmission of the virus, contrary to what was initially claimed

- We know that vaccines are not safe; manufacturers have since admitted to serious side
effects, including myocarditis and pericarditis, despite earlier denials during a massive
media campaign

Moreover:

- In countries with widespread CO VID vaccination campaigns, there has been an average
increase of 15% in mortality since the vaccination campaign. Strangely, no link is
considered between this abnormal excess mortality and the vaccination campaign. Why?
Why this silence around this abnormal excess mortality, and why such a lack of action to
investigate the causes? Why settle for labeling these deaths as "unknown cause"? Does
this topic not interest anyone?

For all these reasons, and others that would be too lengthy and tedious to explain here, I
judge the government's actions during this pandemic as having been (and still being, as the
consequences for some individuals are still felt today and for the rest of their lives)
deleterious in nature. The government imposed measures harmful to our health and
showed a thirst for control over our lives that exceeded the sole concern of protecting us
and prevented us from living normally, as free and responsible individuals for ourselves
and our community.

I sincerely hope that no government will ever have to answer for actions as harmful to the
well-being of its population again.

Yours                                                                            sincerely,
