Submissions into to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry - requiring a Royal
Commission


Australians are entitled to a Royal Commission with full powers to
investigate the State Premiers decisions. The premiers were the ones driving
the fear; unfair lockdowns, imposition of mandates etc.

The way COVID 19 was handled led to an increase of 10,000 deaths in 2021
over 2020 despite the fact that there were only an extra 300 covid deaths. So
where did the other 9,700 extra deaths come from - was that the vaccine or
not?

The premiers should be accountable for their actions. They are a part of
national cabinet with the Minutes released and the vaccine contracts.

Senator Rennick advised of a cover up by the TGA, the Office of Gene
Technology Regulator, ATAGI and when requested figures from the Dept
Health they don't tie back to the State data. The deaths from Omicron are
higher than from Alpha.

- PCR Test Validity

Did this test actually determine a unique covid virus or a virus common to all
influenza viruses?

The TGA has not been forthcoming with the code for this test when
requested by Senator Rennick.

- Establish where the virus came from and how.

Examine evidence the virus was man made as part of biological weapons
development. This research was meant to stop in the U.S. but was continued
illegally t                 China. There is evidence of a cover up by|
saying it was a natural virus. He kept changing his story, (see the I



Other Points to Enquire:

   -      Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts
   -      Vaccine mandates
   -      Vaccine injuries
   -      Mask mandates and lockdowns
   -   Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of
       vaccines to block infection and transmission along with denial of
       vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured
   -   The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable
       harm of the vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the
       Medical Profession.

   -   The censorship of independent journalists who were deplatformed for
       questioning the science or for having different views.
   -   Conflict of Interest - where authorities advocating the vaccines had
       shares in the pharmaceutical companies.
   -      Investigate any evidence that the pandemic was planned.
   -   Review of what worked for nations that had far fewer deaths and
       stopped the pandemic using safe early intervention medicines such as
       Ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine among others plus a healthy lifestyle,
       no masks, lock downs or isolation except for the very sick.


Comment
After all the vaccine injuries, lies from Big Pharma, university studies and
mainstream media, we can't put blind trust in people who don't deserve it.
Governments must stop dealing with those who gain financially from the
pandemic and enforce effective regulations to stop conflict of interest. Bill
Gates has large stakes in virtually all pharmaceutical companies and virtually
controls the World Health Organisation (WHO).
Evidence is mounting that the vaccines are neither safe nor effective and the
more shots people get, the more likely they are to get COVID (Children's
Health Defense reports). NSW Health website's reporting of the number of
COVID deaths, including the vaccine status of those who died, clearly
indicated that those with 3 or 4 vaccines were over-represented and those
with zero vaccines were not. This is the opposite of what we were told to
believe.
There is a need for government to promote healthy alternative treatments
and deal with non-profit organisations such as The World Council for Health
instead of the Gates & China funded WHO.


Thank you
