I am a resilient of metropolitan Melbourne. My submission is to explain why the
government needs to stay out of the populations individual health choices. Never
again have lockdowns, never again have mandated health medications or measure.
Leave it up to us to decide what is best in consultation with our health professionals.

       Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government,
       responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance
       mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism
       and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory
       bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

The Federal government should have intervened when it came to
different states responding differently to the same virus. The fact the
Victorians were one of the most locked down places for the same virus
(as the rest of the country) is madness. Why was it allowed that
Victorians were so badly treated and the children were not in their
schools- when other states were is so maddening, I can lot express it in
words. My children - along with other Victorian children had their
education put on hold.

   •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
       and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
       quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

The vaccine mandate was barbaric. The fact that Australia forced a
vaccine on people is still astounding to me. The choice was - take it, or
you can not go to shops, library’s (a government free service that our
taxes pay for), let alone our jobs- our right to earn money- unless we
take an injection that the government deems, we must. NOW we know
that injection did not stop transmission, did not lessen the severity of
Covid and did not save lives. We now know-as I did then- that the
injection - even if it did what it promised- which it did not, that Covid was
not a danger to a healthy adult or child. SO why was it mandated.
Criminal act. You want my opinion on future health issues. Leave it up to
individuals as to what we put in our bodies - not government. I choose
to live a healthy life so I ca have a strong immune. Government do not
get to choose what I put in my body. And regarding my children- there
was a period when my son was not allowed to participate in his outside
activities because he did not have this pointless injection. An injection
that he did not need and if he did take increased his risk of long-term
heart issues like pericarditis. Then the government supported the TGA’s
decision to ban perfectly good medications, that have now had that ban
lifted, that could have helped those with immune compromised health
issues. All so the TGA could get a emergency use for its pointless
‘vaccines’
