The proposed inquiry into the Covid-19 response that is limited to reviewing federal government
responses is totally inadequate. There MUST be a Royal Commission that reviews not just the
incompetence of the federal government but also the actions of the states not only during the time
of the so-called pandemic but continues to this day. Nothing less than a full Royal Commission is
acceptable.

The government had a pandemic preparedness plan that was developed when Tony Abbott was
Prime Minister. However, this was totally ignored, and the government chose to follow international
guidelines in apparent lockstep with all other western nations. The government followed flawed
guidelines from the WHO, CDC, The Lancet, and other international health authorities which in turn
was based on flawed modelling. One of the modelling sources was from the Imperial College, London
an institution that has a well-known track record for providing shockingly poor modelling for
decades. Why did Australia not follow its own plan, and why did it follow dictates from international
organisations and so-called philanthropic foundations?

The government established a "National Cabinet" that operated in secret, whereby the decisions and
deliberations were not disclosed to the public. There was no transparency whatsoever. There was no
disclosure of the so called "medical advice" that backed up these decisions.

States were allowed to close borders which was questionable in regard to the Australian Constitution
(section 92). The federal government made signals they would take the matter to the Supreme Court
for a ruling, but this never happened. Why not? We now have an established precedent. This needs
to be challenged in the Supreme Court before there is any other excuse for States to ever close
borders again. The unnecessary and potentially unlawful border closures caused chaos for many
Australians and certainly led to the deaths of Australians. The death of the unborn twin, where the
Ballina mother was not allowed to fly to a Queensland hospital as mandated by Dr Jeanette Young
(Chief Health Officer at the time) is a tragedy and requires a full investigation by itself.

The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) is responsible for the regulation of therapeutic goods
which includes vaccines and prescription medications. Whilst it is attached to the Australian
Government Department of Health and Aged Care, only 7% of the TGA is funded by Australian tax
payers, the remaining 93% is from industry fees and charges, most notably from large
pharmaceutical companies. Such a funding model MUST result in biased decisions and reporting by
the TGA. The claim that the Covid vaccine has only resulted in 14 deaths is pure fiction. Even though
the TGA is limited to regulating therapeutic goods, it also banned Australian doctors from prescribing
the drug hydroxychloroquine to combat COVID-19. This particular drug was tested in numerous trials
and in many was found to reduce mortality and improve recovery times from COVID-19.1 The TGA
focused on a discredited paper by The Lancet which was withdrawn following claims of fraud.2 The
TGA as it currently exists needs to be disbanded and a fit for purpose group with more transparency
be created.

The role played by the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) over the last 3 years
has been one of a tyrannical dictatorship over Australia's medical professionals. Doctors that
questioned the AHPRA narrative were deregistered, often after cruel public investigation procedures
some of which resulted in the doctor's suicide. AHPRA actively sought to destroy the doctor/patient


1 560 HCQ COVID-19 studies, 437 peer reviewed, 414 comparing treatment and control groups.
(https://cl9hcq.org/)
-MR Mehra et al. Hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine with or without a macrolide for treatment of COVID-19:
a multinational registry analysis. The Lancet. Online May 22, 2020 https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-
6736(20)31180-6
relationship by dictating the narrative in regard to Covid 19 treatments. As such, patients' health
outcomes were and still are seriously compromised.

In the US an experimental vaccine cannot be used if there are existing medications that can be used
as a treatment. In the case of Covid-19 there were at least two such drugs; Ivermectin and
Hydroxychloroquine (as previously mentioned). In the case of the latter, Clive Palmer imported 30
million doses, enough to at least provide improvement in health outcomes against the virus to
Australians. Why did the Federal government allow these two proven performing drugs not to be
used to the benefit of Australians? Indeed, the federal government destroyed millions of dollars'
worth of Hydroxychloroquine that was gifted to the nation! In Queensland Dr Jeanette Young even
dictated prison sentences for doctors who prescribed Ivermectin, a Nobel prize winning medication
that has been on the market for nearly 70 years. . This criminalisation of effective treatments needs
FULL investigation as the prevention of the use of these effective drugs most certainly led to the loss
of many lives.

The federal and state government narrative of the Covid vaccination as "safe and effective" is total
misinformation. As the fear campaign ramped up, the claimed effectiveness was a total lie as
revealed in the Pfizer documentation released after a US court injunction. It is notable that Pfizer
sought to have this information embargoed for 75 years. The documentation also exposed the
fraudulent testing and claims made by Pfizer. Again, Australian's must know the basis of the so called
"medical advice" used by their governments.

The federal government entered into contracts with pharmaceutical companies to supply well over
100 million vaccines/boosters. The details of these contracts were kept secret but must be provided
to the Australian public who have funded the procurement. Details not only of cost per injection but
also the details of all indemnities against vaccine injury.

The federal government has claimed, after the fact, that it never mandated covid vaccines. However,
millions of Australian workers, including state government workers had to get vaccinated or lose
their job. Many Australians were forced financially to take an experimental procedure, the potential
effects of which were not disclosed at the time of vaccination. This disgraceful coercion and lack of
disclosure clearly defies the ethical principles laid out in the Nurenberg code. The Inquiry needs to
investigate how this level of coercion was not applied to senior bureaucrats and politicians, many of
whom were exempted from taking Covid vaccinations.

The unprecedented lockdowns and the bullying used by the nation's police to enforce them needs to
be thoroughly investigated. Australia had premiers granting extreme powers not only to themselves
but to their senior bureaucrats to place wartime restrictions of the population. Who would have ever
thought Australians would experience quarantine, rubber bullets, directed energy weapons, fines,
arrests and imprisonment for violations of the most draconian measures, and for a virus that was no
worse than a bad influenza season. This situation must NEVER be allowed to occur again during
peacetime. The rhetoric of "war on the virus" was just a psychological attack on Australians as was
the mask mandates. Lockdowns and masks were implemented to cause fear, mental health issues
and division. There were never any health benefits to either "control." Again, the so called "medical
advice" for masks and lockdowns needs to be provided and demonstrate how that advice was able to
contradict decades of studies that they are both not only ineffective but also harmful.

The above points represent only a fraction of the poor decision making, totalitarian government
policies enforced by heavy handed policing, the like of which has not been seen in Australia in living
memory. Australia was internationally shamed by the actions of Australian states. Footage of the
brutal police action against innocent Australians beamed around the world as did the manhunts in
the NT for a small group of                      who had escaped from the quarantine camps. The
response by the NT government to prevent further escapes was more guard dogs and razor wire at
the camp. Truely disgusting!

The Albanese government is trying to make out that there's nothing much to see here. This Inquiry
will be a simple whitewash of some of the most critical issues that this country has ever faced. The
terms of reference are shallow and almost meaningless in a blatant attempt to protect the Labor-
controlled state government incompetencies. But in reality, there is so much to see and understand.
Since the introduction of Covid 19 vaccines Australia as well as other highly vaccinated nations are
experiencing unprecedented increasing all-cause mortality rates, called "excess deaths." Mainstream
medical institutions are in denial or just "baffled." The Australian Senate, to their shame, recently
voted down a motion for a senate inquiry into the increased rate of deaths occurring in the 18 to 44
age group.

The only answer to trying to resolve the issues of the last three years is a Royal Commission with
carefully selected non biased members and very specific terms of reference. The proposed inquiry by
the Albanese government is a complete waste of time and it is highly likely that even the effort I have
put into writing this paper will have been pointless.
