                                                                                      AAPi
                                                                                    AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATION
                                                                                      Of PSYCHOLOGISTS INC




Dear Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,


The Australian Association of Psychologists Incorporated (AAPi) are the leading not-for-profit peak
body representing all psychologists. We have over 10,000 members and are committed to
supporting the health and wellbeing of psychologists and Australians who need access to
psychological support.

Please see our comments provided below regarding the COVID-19 inquiry.


    1.      Key Health Response Measures
            a. COVID-19 Vaccinations and treatments
               The Australian Government has demonstrated commendable efforts in securing
               COVID-19 vaccines and treatments for the population, leading to high vaccination
               rates. However, public awareness campaigns should be sustained to encourage
               booster shots and overcome vaccine hesitancy, which many psychologists were
               required to work through with their clients. Many cross-cultural resources were not
               created or distributed in a timely enough fashion to combat much of this
               misinformation and disinformation. Psychologists, particularly health and
               community psychologists, can provide expertise in this area and should be
               adequately utilised.
            b. Medical supplies and personal protective equipment
               Ensuring a consistent supply of PPE to healthcare workers and essential services is
               vital. Transparency and collaboration with industry partners like the AAPi are key in
               managing these supplies effectively. During the pandemic, many psychologists were
               not allowed to access PHN-supplied PPE and, at times, were required to see highly
               vulnerable clients without access to PPE, leaving them at risk of contracting the virus
               and infecting clients. This led to significant distress that impacted their mental
               health.
            c. Public health messaging
               Public health messaging needs to be clear, consistent, and culturally sensitive to
               reach diverse populations effectively. Such messaging should emphasise the
               importance of accessing psychological support, vaccinations and preventive
               measures. Psychologists, particularly health and community psychologists, can
               provide expertise in this area and should be adequately utilised.

                AAPi were concerned that during the pandemic inadequate emphasis on the need to
                access mental health support was provided. Particularly during times of crisis, such
                as snap lockdowns, crisis support lines should have been prominently displayed
                along with the urging of people to reach out for support and the continuation of
                psychological treatment.

                Psychologists reported to us that it would have been beneficial if clients could refer
                themselves to psychologists, eliminating the significant bottleneck at GP clinics,
                which were overwhelmed during many periods of the pandemic. This would ensure,
                for future pandemics, that GPs could focus on physical health appointments, and




                                          www.aapi.org.au
                 clients would not need to wait for weeks or months before
                                                                                       AAPi
                                                                                      AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATION
                                                                                        Of PSYCHOLOGISTS INC
                 accessing support for their mental health.



    2.       Broader health supports
             a. Mental health and suicide prevention
                The mental health impact of the pandemic, particularly during lockdowns, has been
                significant. There is a pressing need to increase funding for mental health services,
                focusing on timely access to care and suicide prevention programs. The McKell
                report (2023) notes that investing in psychology services clients can access under
                 Medicare would significantly ease this access issue.
             b. Access to screening and other health measures
                 Ensuring uninterrupted access to essential health screenings and preventive mental
                health measures is vital. Psychology telehealth services should be promoted,
                especially in areas with lockdowns and regional areas in which residents often forgo
                or ration vital mental health support due to how inaccessible it currently is.

   3.         Support for Industry and Business
         b.           Labor shortages
         There is a widely acknowledged psychology workforce shortage that shows no signs of
         easing. Meaningful strategies should be adopted to address labor shortages, including
         facilitating paid placements for student and provisional psychologists as well as allowing the
         8,000 provisional psychologists in Australia to be able to work under the Medicare system,
         to support regional and rural psychologists to live and study in their home towns, to diversify
         psychology training and study pathways by reopening the 4+2 pathway, and workforce
         upskilling to meet industry demands.
         c.           Housing and homelessness
         Investments in affordable housing and homeless support services should be prioritized, as
         without these basic measures, population mental health will be unable to shift towards
         greater mental health and wellbeing in any meaningful way (Singh et al., 2022).
         d. Family and domestic violence measures
         Efforts to combat family and domestic violence need to be comprehensive, providing
         support and refuge for survivors and also more funding and programs that work directly
         with perpetrators as there was a strong increase in domestic violence incidents between
         pre- and post-lockdown periods (Piquero et al., 2021) which continues to impact the health,
         safety, and wellbeing of all Australians impacted.

   4.         Mechanisms to better target future responses
         Future responses should consider the unique needs of various populations, including
         gender, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disabilities,
         First Nations peoples, and culturally and linguistically diverse communities.
         The requirement to bulk bill for Telehealth at the start of the pandemic also became an issue
         as this put many businesses into financial difficulty as it meant a large income cut. Many
         businesses have struggled to remain financially viable since the pandemic, and as they are
         not eligible for government funding, are considering closing their doors.



Turning your attention to the role of psychologists in the COVID-19 response, it is essential to
acknowledge the extraordinary challenges they have faced. Throughout the pandemic, psychologists
have been at the forefront of providing mental health support to Australians who have been
grappling with the psychological toll of COVID-19 and lockdowns.




                                           www.aapi.org.au
Psychology private practices, which often employ provisional psychologists,
                                                                                        AAPi
                                                                                      AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATION
                                                                                        Of PSYCHOLOGISTS INC
faced significant difficulties in meeting the population's demands. One major
issue was the inaccessibility of Medicare rebates for provisional psychologists,
despite their equivalent training and qualifications to mental health social workers. This disparity
created financial hardships for both provisional psychologists and the clients they served.

Moreover, the two-tier psychology rebate system, which is not evidence-based, resulted in
psychologists with clinical endorsement and other psychologists with similar qualifications rebated
at vastly different levels. This discrepancy not only created financial challenges for psychologists but
also left Australians in financial distress to make difficult choices when seeking mental health
services.

Workforce shortages in psychology services were a concern even before the COVID-19 pandemic,
and the crisis further exacerbated this issue. There is an urgent need to expand pathways for
provisional psychologists to gain full registration, especially in regional areas where the shortage of
mental health professionals is more acute (McKell report, 2023).

Many psychologists feel undervalued and unsupported by the government, which has contributed to
a significant number leaving the profession. This attrition is counterproductive to the nation's
mental health needs. For future pandemics or crises, it is imperative that we prioritise the well­
being, career development, and retention of psychologists in Australia. They are a crucial part of our
healthcare system, and their expertise and support are essential during challenging times.

The Australian government has shown commendable dedication to addressing the challenges posed
by COVID-19. However, there is room for improvement in several key areas, particularly in
supporting the mental health needs of the population and addressing the disparities within the
psychology profession. By taking action in these areas, we can better prepare our healthcare system
for future crises and ensure the well-being of both the public and the dedicated professionals who
serve them.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. I trust that the insights and recommendations provided
in this response will contribute to a more resilient and responsive healthcare system in Australia.




Warmest Regards




Carly Dober

Director and psychologists

Australian Association of Psychologists




                                           www.aapi.org.au
                                                                                     AAPi
                                                                                    AUSTRALIAN ASSOCIATION
                                                                                      Of PSYCHOLOGISTS INC




References

   1.   Under Pressure: Australia’s Mental Health Emergency- The McKell Institute. (2023, February
        14). The McKell Institute.https://mckellinstitute.org.au/research/reports/under-pressure-
        australias-mental-health-emergency/
   2.   Chung, R. Y. N„ Chung, G. K. K., Gordon, D„ Mak, J. K. L, Zhang, L. F„ Chan, D„ ... &
        Wong, S. Y. S. (2020). Housing affordability effects on physical and mental health: household
        survey in a population with the world's greatest housing affordability stress. J Epidemiol
        Community Health, 74(2), 164-172.
   3.   Singh, A., Daniel, L, Baker, E., & Bentley, R. (2019). Housing disadvantage and poor mental
        health: a systematic review. American journal of preventive medicine, 57(2), 262-272.
   4.   Piquero, A. R., Jennings, W. G., Jemison, E., Kaukinen, C., & Knaul, F. M. (2021). Domestic
        violence during the COVID-19 pandemic-Evidence from a systematic review and meta­
        analysis. Journal of criminal justice, 74, 101806.
   5.   Pomeranz, J. L., & Schwid, A. R. (2021). Governmental actions to address COVID-19
        misinformation. Journal of public health policy, 42, 201-210.




                                          www.aapi.org.au
