Right at the start of the so called COVID-19 pandemic, when Scott Morrison announced travel
restrictions from China, we knew that this was bad news for Australians. We knew: that Australian
Govts (State and Federal, even local Councils) would use this an excuse to breach the trust that had
been given to them by the people; that they would use it as an excuse to trample on our Human
Rights and entrench Government liaison and association with corporate criminals and criminal
organisations; that Australian Govts would use it as an excuse to violate Human Rights and to
literally harm those they are there to serve, coercing people into taking the vaccine, using police
forces to impose their will rather than to act morally and in accordance with the whole law,
suppressing views not their own, whether scientific of not.

Did any body die from this? Yes! A good friend                      as a result of the lockdowns. I
was executor of the estate.


The Victorian Government did this and the Federal Govt aided and abetted them.

Some of the criminal organisations the Federal Govt has chosen to partner with include the huge
pharmaceutical companies who over many years have consistently broken the law, racking up huge
fines, but never ceasing in their corrupt practices. How is the Federal Govt partnering with these
organisations moral or even ethical? Other criminal, certainly immoral, organisations include the
United Nations and in particular the World Health Organisation who have never had any problem
with hypocritically trampling over the Human Rights they supposedly espouse.

The Australian Government in particular does not really support Human Rights. It appears Govts
think that legislating an abuse of Human Rights on what ever pretext, is justifiable. It is not. It is
immoral. This is the reason Govts were willing to sign up to the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights. The could legislate their abuse. States may derogate Human Rights obligations
except for articles 6, 7, 8 (paragraphs 1 and 2), 11, 15, 16 and 18. But in two of those instances
legislated abuse of Human Rights is still acceptable see for example article 8 paragraph 3, and
article 18 paragraph 3.

Govts in Australia have found ways around their Human Rights obligations and these methods were
practised during the so called COVID-19 pandemic. The Federal Govt couldn’t legally mandate
vaccinations, so they got the states to do it. The States legislated to force employers to mandate
vaccinations or be fined. The fact that the coercion was not direct, but indirect, was none the less
coercion. Federal, State and Local Govts all participated in this. Govts can argue otherwise, but the
truth is clear: they made the circumstances such that people were coerced. The media, Govts and
Social Media acted in unison to suppress views other than the agenda of big Pharma and Australian
Govts further adding to the coercion. False information about the safety of vaccinations was
promulgated by government - this was true mis-information and totally abhorrent.

When I read through the rights identified in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as read you
realise it is not until Article 14 that you find an Article where Australian Federal, State and Local
governments have not violated those rights. It is only Articles 14 - 17 that have not been violated
and governments in Australia are intending to violate Article 17 as well.

Once we had some faith in the efficacy of government in Australia. The criminals used to be
individuals, then came associations, then companies and corporations. Today in Australia the
criminals are the Government, and there appears to be no redress against Governments and
Government agencies for these violations and criminal activities. After all they control the courts
and the police and government agencies. These violations are no accident - they are deliberate -
with intention to harm. Australian Federal, State and Local Government is guilty of crimes against
humanity.

We have no confidence in this enquiry either, at best a glimmer of hope. Why because the enquiry
has no power. As usual nothing will change, nothing will be done. Will police who shot peaceful
protesters go to jail? Will police who beat an old lady, or an older gentleman go to jail? Will police
who abused the court system by pressing charges and using bail restrictions for years on end only to
drop the charges in the end, because they knew they would loose, go to jail? Will magistrates and
judges who gave outrageous verdicts go to jail? Will State Premiers and Health Ministers and those
involved in the ‘National Cabinet’ so called, go to jail for their crimes against the people. Will Scott
Morrison spend time behind bars for his outrageous actions and going behind the peoples backs,
and his outright corrupt actions? The answer to all these questions is: “No, nothing will be done”.

We have another question. Will you uphold peoples right to hold and express views which oppose
Government and the narrative Government pushes? Will you oppose Government in its control of
the media? Will you oppose Government in its control of social media. Will you condemn
Governments and Corporate giants want to identify every individual and control everything we do?
What has this to do with COVID-19? Governments in Australia did these things during the so called
pandemic, and now I’m certain it is worse than before. Corporate giants collect our data without
remorse and in ever increasing amounts. Governments in Australia want to do even worse with
Digital ID.

Is there any hope? Maybe once. I used to think there was, that Australia was a good place to live,
but as things stand in Australia - There is No hope, no life! Government in Australia is intent on
doing harm, is intent on doing evil. Is there any hope for moral government, a government that truly
has the best interests of the people at heart. AGAIN NO! Today we have despots, self serving
individuals and criminals in power having allegiance to external interests and no morality.
