Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
To the Members of the Independent Panel,
lam writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects ofAustralia's response to the
COVID-19 pandemic. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry's goal to improve pandemic
preparedness, there are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny.

Concerns Over Specific Pandemic Measures

Corona Injectables anil Their Approval: Where were the long-term studies to determine that these
substances were safe and effective? Australia didn't do its own research and instead relied on the
corrupted research from the U.S. Now we are experiencing mildforms ofcorona, but a large all
cause excess mortality scenario. This needs to be thoroughly investigated.

Health care providers have been disgracefully pushing these injections on trusting citizens, with many
in fear of questioning the narrative. These injections are being given to pregnant mothers without any
significant study to confirm that they were suitable for pregnant women and their babies.
Coincidently, Australia’s birth rate has fallen off a cliff

Censoring ofFree Speech: Freedom ofspeech is paramount in a democracy. During the coronavirus
pandemic, free speech took a backseat as the Government tried to shutdown opposing views by
identifying social media posts that disagreed with their narrative and awardingfunding to broadcast
networks to seemingly tow the line. Many of the social media posts censored were later proven to be
accurate. Irrespective if they turned out to be accurate, freedom ofspeech should prevail or else a
slippery slope ensues.

     RA/Medical Board of Australia anil Their Control Over Health Care Providers: Doctors and
Pharmacists were not allowed to speak their mind on social media or have their patien ts ’ best
interests at heart without the fear of investigation, disciplinary action or suspension.

                         been faithfully serving the community of^^^^^^for decades, yet when she
 declared that the Pfizer corona injectable was a bioweapon, she was suspended. Her claim was in
fact true, as SARS-CoV-2 is technically a bioweapon and anything derivedfrom it would then meet
 the definition of a bioweapon too. Now she can’t evenfind staffto keep her store open for the entirety
 of its usual business hours.

                                          was closed by the Victorian Government after he issued
tryection exemptions. This honourable man had helped his patients and his reward was being raided
and closed by the Victorian Government. His confidential patient files were seized by the Victorian
Government. This was 3rd world dictator behaviour by Daniel Andrews.

.Mask anil Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had significant
impacts on individualfreedoms and social dynamics. These measures, often invasive, warrant a
detailed review to assess their necessity, effectiveness, and proportionality.

A friend of mine was sackedfor not adhering to the injection mandate. An 18 year employment ended
and he has since struggled to feed his family and pay his mortgage, to take an injectable that was
subsequently seen not to be needed.

Change of the definitions of vaccine and vaccination: The CDC changed the definition ofvaccine
since they realised that “COVID-19 vaccines are not vaccines per CDC’s o wn definition ” (according
to FOIA requests ofthe CDC in the U.S.).
The prior CDC Definitions of Vaccine and Vaccination (August 26, 2021):

Vaccine: A product that stimulates a person’s immune system to produce immunity to a specific
disease, pro tecting the person from that disease. Vaccines are usually administered through needle
injections, but can also be administered by mouth or sprayed into the nose.

Vaccination: The act of introducing a vaccine in to the body to produce immunity to a specific disease.

The CDC Definitions of Vaccine and Vaccination si

Vaccine: A preparation that is used to stimulate the body’s immune response against diseases.
Vaccines are usually administered through needle injections, but some can be administered by mouth
or sprayed into the nose.

Vaccination: The act of introducing a vaccine into the body to produce protection from a specific
disease.

Why should Australia follow this corrupting ofscience? This dictate was obviously followed to make
the idea of the pharmaceutical products easier to sell. Why should we accept and use changed
definitions solely for the profits af Big Pharma?!?

‘ Vaccine ’ Passports: The transfer of data from Federal systems to States wanting to operate
 ‘vaccine ’passports to implement draconian measures was a disgrace and categorically opposed the
view of the Prime Minister that vaccine passports should not be implemented. Ifhe truly believed that,
then why did he allow the transfer of data?

Lockdowns, Curfews and State-Based Rules: The econom ic, social, and psychological impacts of
lockdowns and curfews have been profound. An evaluation of these measures is essential to
understand their long-term effects on Australian society and whether they were the most appropriate
response.

My wife and her sister were co-owners of a pharmacy. To own a pharmacy, you must be a
pharmacist. My sister-in-law wan ted to sell the pharmacy. My wife wan ted to buy her 50% s take. It
seemed simple. However, because the State Government implemented injection mandates for
pharmacists, my wife could no longer purchase the pharmacy. They ended up selling to a th ird party
for less than what it was worth. They spent years building the pharmacy and because of the injection
 mandate idiocy, it’s sadly gone.

On the subject ofgone..
                drove her to the Women’s Hospital, however upon walking her into the waiting room, I
was abruptly removed due to their policy regarding numbers inside. My wife had to go through that
alone. I let her down by not being there. It was traumatic for both of us.

Communication Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use offear in public
health messaging. The unnecessary fear in the community was generated by the State Governments
and the media and it resulted in people divorcing from reality. This was intentional as it made the
weak-minded more malleable. This needs to be investigated and steps taken to ensure that this evil
never occurs again.
One of my dearfriends is at^LP apologist, to the point of taking as many shots as he can.
Unfortunately, he has            15 years and the corona injectable shots send him to hospital (his
              go haywire). Even if he wasn’t an ALP apologist, the specialists would refuse to treat
him unless he was up-to-date with the current corona injectable shot. What’s being perpetrated
against the dear fellow is evil.

Post PanderHic Response (WHO)
What's the Government's response to prepare for a future pandemic? Seemingly to make Australia a
signatory to WHO's pandemic treaty. The drafts of this treaty call for people to lose their bodily
autonomy, and to an extent, countries to cede power to WHO. I'd be against people losing bodily
autonomy and coun tries ceding po wer, e ven if WHO could manage to be correct about e veryth ing
pandemic-related, but at this stage unfortunately, WHO somehow managed to get everything wrong
about the CO VID-19 pandemic.

Concerns Over the Composition and Scope of the Int/uiry

Panel Composition: The appointment ofInquiry panel members who have previously expressed
supportfor certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity and impartiality of the
Inquiry. Panel members who fun                       • such measures should recuse themselves.

 Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One of the most significant
 omissions in the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion ofactions taken unilaterally by state and territory
governments. These decisions, including state-imposed lockdowns and border controls, were pivotal
 to the nation's pandemic response and should be included in the Inquiry. States were seemingly
 coordinating their policies usingfocus groups, rather than legitimate science. Racist BLMprotests
 were allo wed yet pro tests against the pandemic measures were deemed a public health risk and were
 often cracked down upon with a level ofbrutality not seen since Federation. I don’t believe that
 SARS-Co V-2 has evolved to a point where it can distinguish between a ‘worthy ’ cause and any other
form of illegal protest.

The Need for a Comprehensive Review
While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above-mentioned
areas are not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all aspects of the
government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope.

 Conclusion
 This submission represents a collective call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation into
 Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast aside with
fearmongering as it was by Australian governments during the pandemic. We urge the Inquiry to
 consider these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the safeguarding ofAustralian
 values and liberties. Nothing short ofan all-encompassing Royal Commission is required. We have
 Royal Commissions over games of Tiddly winks, however the Government seemingly doesn’t want one
 over the biggest event of the last 78 years. Now that the offending State and Federal leaders have
 been discarded, it is an opportune time to investigate every aspect ofthe COVID-19 response through
 a Royal Commission, without fear of hurting either Party's leadership, and as such, with politics far
 removed.

Kind Regards,


Mr. A. Lowe
