Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Prof. Martin Hensher, MSc(Econ), PhD.



Preamble

I am lodging this submission in my personal capacity. I am the Henry Baldwin Professorial Research
Fellow in Health Systems Sustainability at the Menzies Institute for Medical Research of the
University of Tasmania. I have over 30 years of experience in health economics, health systems
governance and health policy, gained in both academia and health systems in Europe, Central Asia,
Sub-Saharan Africa and Australia. I have extensive knowledge of the Australian health information
environment (e.g. as former Chair and Deputy Chair of the erstwhile National Health Information
and Performance Principal Committee, former member Standing Committee on National Health
Information); I have also led and conducted a range of research and advisory activities on Long
COVID and Post-Acute Sequelae of Coronavirus-19 (PASC) in Australia since the emergence of
COVID-19. i-s



Introduction

In this submission I will address a number of issues which fall across the ToR themes of Governance,
Key health response measures, International policies, and Mechanisms to better target future responses. I
note with disappointment that “international programs and activities assisting foreign countries” are
out of scope. Had this not been the case, I would have provided substantial additional inputs on the
important opportunities to promote better health, regional leadership and global health equity which
were lost due to Commonwealth Government positions and decisions on vaccine intellectual
property and supply issues.6



Data, Surveillance and Management

In the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, it was entirely understandable that surveillance and
reporting of COVID infections data was ad hoc in nature. This system understandably grew out of
COVID testing data, and commendable efforts were made to standardise local, state and territory
reporting into national aggregates. This system was then expanded to incorporate self-reported
diagnoses once rapid testing became dominant. However, there appears to have been a total failure
to institute alternative surveillance systems capable of providing robust data on incidence of new
COVID infections once self-reporting became optional and (predictably) rates of testing and self­
reporting fell away. Alternatives could have included wastewater surveillance and/or continuous
national population surveys, both of which have been undertaken in peer countries. As a
consequence, Australia now finds itself with poor quality, unreliable surveillance data on the current
state of COVID infections, with deep implications for the quality of ongoing decision-making.

By early 2021, it was clear that a significant subset of people who had been infected with SARS-CoV-
2 went on to experience longer-lasting symptoms, impaired functioning and/or elevated risks of a
range of other health conditions (“Long COVID” and PASC). Most of Australia’s peers instituted
large-scale, ongoing population surveys - run by national statistics or health agencies (e.g. UK Office
for National Statistics, US Centers for Disease Control, Statistics Canada etc.) - which continue to
provide surveillance data on the extent and severity of Long COVID symptoms at population level.
Australia has been a notable exception to this trend, in having chosen not to institute a Long COVID
survey. Instead, Australia opted to put all its eggs in the data linkage basket, focusing on the
development by the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare of the COVID-19 Register. The
COVID-19 Register, and state and territory initiatives (e.g. the Victorian Agency for Health
Information’s COVID linked data project) have provided very useful data for a range of research
projects. However, it was noted repeatedly that the long lead times involved in the transmission and
linkage of data via linked datasets meant that these initiatives would never be able to provide
information for ongoing surveillance or decision-making purposes.            This was the reason why peer
nations (including the UK, which possesses significantly superior capabilities to link healthcare data
more rapidly and comprehensively than does Australia) all opted to run population surveys to
provide information on Long COVID. Indeed, the utility of Australian linked data assets is already
greatly diminished by the precipitous decline in self-reporting of positive COVID test results; the
COVID-19 Register will continue to be a somewhat useful source of data for the period during
which testing was widespread (2020-2022), but is already of little or no value for examining Long
COVID and PASC etc. due to infections from early 2023 onwards.

Given my prior experience of the national health information policy environment, I believe it is
highly unlikely that the option of fielding an Australian Long COVID survey was not discussed. The
choice to go all in on data linkage was a positive choice. I will not speculate on why this decision was
made, but it has left Australia without effective surveillance of Long COVID. This lack of data has
contributed to policy uncertainty and unwarranted polarisation of views on the real severity of Long
COVID in this country. It has left national, state and territory policymakers in the dark on the true
scale and severity of Long COVID, with the predictable result that they have not been able to plan
and fund appropriate healthcare and social policy response to support affected persons and families.
It is still not too late to rectify this significant failure of data and surveillance policy, especially given
the inconvenient persistence of COVID-19.




State Capacity and Bold Decision-Making

While your Inquiry will undoubtedly receive many submissions of opposing views on the
appropriateness of many aspects of “lockdowns”, I believe it is essential to acknowledge the
fundamental, deep success of Australia’s closure of the international border in “buying time” to
prepare. Many aspects could have been managed more effectively and - just as important - more
fairly (e.g. the inappropriate and inequitable privileging of business travel over compassionate travel
exemptions etc.). However, the most important lesson for future pandemics and health emergencies
is precisely that the early, hard border closure worked extremely effectively as a control measure
(defying earlier overseas modelling from Swine Flu that had suggested travel bans were not
effective). Just as in 1918/19, Australia was able to achieve significant and prolonged levels of control
through international border closures; historians and future policymakers must be clear on this fact,
and not bend to those who wish to downplay it for ideological or commercial reasons.

The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted supply shocks and supply chain resilience everywhere in the
world. Many efforts are already in place to strengthen critical supply chain resilience, and the litany
of increasingly disruptive geopolitical and ecological crises we are living through only heighten the
importance of this work. A core overall lesson from this and other countries relates to the
importance of i) overall state capacity to extend management and decision-making into unfamiliar
areas during a national emergency and ii) the need for bold and confident decision-making by the
state to direct activities normally undertaken by the private sector. Australia did well in this regard,
not descending into the corruption that plagued many countries’ emergency procurement efforts,
and making bold and decisive moves like the international border closure. Public servants need to be
skilled and confident in acting flexibly in future emergencies. This needs more and better training
(but not by focusing on “re-fighting the last war”); the final excision of any remaining neoliberal
dogmas on outsourcing and the superiority of the private sector; and the elimination of reliance on
private consultants to advise or manage key elements of any emergency response. This should be
undertaken as part of a wider process of public service reform and renewal.



Recording Lessons for the Future

While the results and final report of your Inquiry will undoubtedly form one very important part of
the recording of lessons for future policymakers from the COVID-19 policy response, I would like
to recommend three further actions by the Australian Government to ensure that the best possible
record is left for posterity:

     I.   The funding, commissioning and publication of a multi-volume, multi-author Official History of
          the COVID-19 response, using wartime official histories as a template.
     2. The funding, commissioning and publication of an Unresolved Questions research project
          across all domains of the COVID-19 policy response, drawing on both officials, practitioners
          and academic subject-matter experts, with the objective of identifying all areas on which
          opinion and evidence remains substantially unclear or unresolved, to guide future decision­
          makers.
     3. A cross-government policy review of the ongoing appropriateness of all Commonwealth
          policy settings given the surprising persistence of high levels of COVID-19 infections (albeit
          with decreased lethality and severity), driven by Cabinet-level acknowledgement that this
          persistence was not adequately foreseen earlier in the pandemic.




References

I.        Hensher M, Angeles MR, de Graaf B, Campbell J, Athan E, Haddock R. Issues Brief: Managing
          the long-term consequences of COVID-19 in Australia. 26 May 2021.
2.        Angeles MR, Hensher M. Estimating the current scale and impact of Long COVID in Australia.
          Online Only. 2022.
3.        Angeles MR, Wanni Arachchige Dona S, Nguyen HD, Le LK-D, Hensher M. Modelling the
          potential acute and post-acute burden of COVID-19 under the Australian border re-opening
          plan. BMC Public Health. 2022/04/14 2022;22( I ):757. doi: 10.1 186/s 12889-022-13169-x
4.        Hensher M, Angeles MR. Potential scale of Long COVID cases from the Omicron wave in Australia,
          Summer 2021-2022. Online Only. February 2022.
5.        Sorrell TC, Hensher M, Sanci LA. Long COVID in Australia: achieving equitable access to
          supportive health care. Medical Journal of Australia. 2023/05/10 2023
          doi:https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.51950
6.        Hensher M, Wanni Arachchige Dona S. COVID-19 vaccines, boosters and mandates: building
          a mission economy, not a rentier paradise. Medical Journal of Australia. 2022/04/24
          2022;216:556-558. doi:https://doi.org/10.5694/mja2.51500
