Covid 19 Response Inquiry Consultation - Submission

                     Australian citizen



Dear Covid-19 Response Panel

I submit this document for your consideration as part of the Covid-19 Response Inquiry. My
submission has an emphasis on the necessity for a Royal Commission for a comprehensive
investigation into various aspects of the government's conduct during the pandemic.

Corrupt Vaccine Procurement and Secret Contracts

The Australian government is elected by the people to govern in the best interests of the people of
Australia. However, there are allegations secret deals were made and an eye-watering amount of
Australians' money spent on under-tested (fast-tracked), unsafe & ineffective, in many cases such as
mine, unwanted, provisionally-approved 'vaccines'. Pledges were made and deals done not in the
best interests of us the Australian people. This needs to be looked into at the highest level - without
protections.

Disregard for the Rights and Protections Afforded Australian Citizens by our Australian Constitution
/ Abuse of so-called 'Emergency Powers'

The protections of our Constitution were circumvented by our own federal government via the
claiming of 'emergency powers' - first for a two week period and then for a wholly unreasonable
amount of time.

Our Australian government should not have allowed abuse of Emergency Powers by the states and
territories. Our Constitution is there primarily (as far as I'm aware) to protect the Australian people
from government overreach - it should not be so callously ignored, or so easily circumvented or
over-ridden. This must be investigated.

Borders should not have been closed. There should not have been lockdowns and quarantine. We
should not have had to reveal our vaccination status for work or entry. A Royal Commission is
required to investigate high level abuse.

Vaccine and Mask Mandates, in light of the Nuremberg Code

I lost my job with the^^^^^^^^|for six months due to mandates and was forced to reveal my
vaccination status. This was I belief ethically and legally wrong. Many people I know got injected
with the experimental medical intervention against their will in order to keep their jobs/ income/
career/ food on the table. This was, and is, very wrong. We must be allowed true free choice in
medical interventions. A Royal Commission is required so it never happens again.

The Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)

The TGA's lack of independence must be investigated. During the 'pandemic' the TGA seemed to act
as a government and/or Big Pharma mouthpiece, and continues to do so. Early intervention
protocols (from Vitamins C & D to Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine...) should have been promoted
not restricted - and, in the cases of Iv. and Hyd., warned against and withdrawn / made difficult to
procure. The TGA's vaccine adverse reaction reporting system is broken and biased away from
recognising vaccine-injury and death. Shame. Blood on their hands. Again, only a Royal Commission
would have the power required to investigate such high-level interference against the interests of the
Australian people. Who was 'pulling the strings' at the TGA during this 'pandemic'?

The ABC

As far as I can see, the ABC - our taxpayer-funded public broadcaster - led, and is leading, the way
amongst the mainstream media channels in biased reporting and fear-mongering re the pandemic
and anyone with a questioning attitude. In the early days the ABC reported daily deaths and
admissions to ICU religiously, but when vaccination began and it became relevant, refused to report
% of those deceased and in ICU who were vaccinated and their no. of doses. Why? This was very
relevant information being suppressed. This needs to be investigated by a Royal Commission.

Our ABC also continues to ignore 'the elephant in the room' - Australia's horrendous excess death
statistics from 2021 onwards. We call for an ABC which fulfils its remit to unbiased reporting. It must
not be an unquestioning government mouthpiece. If it remains so, it must be defunded.

Australian Sovereignty

And to protect and enact all the above, Australia must retain its sovereignty - not bowing down to
decisions made by any unelected body such as the W.H.O. or the W.E.F.. Connections to, and the
influence of, such bodies must be investigated, declared and monitored for the good of us, the
Australian people.



Public confidence in our government has been eroded. The Australian people need accountability
from our government. A Royal Commission is warranted to conduct an exhaustive and impartial
investigation. If there is a Royal Commission into anything, it should be this. I join millions of my
silent fellow Australians in calling for a Royal Commission into the above. Urgently.



Sincerely,
