     SUBMISSION TO COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE
                             INQUIRY

I welcome the opportunity to contribute to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry. I write as an Adjunct
Professor in Humanities with special expertise in forms of social contagion, wide interdisciplinary
expertise including in trauma and public feeling, and the social dimensions of science. My family
of origin are all medical scientists, including a                                ar|d a
                 I also have a much older partner, and three friends who suffer from various forms
oftwo linked to COVID-19. I am a long time feminist and member of LGBTIQ groups, as well
as advocacy group Cleaner Air Collective. My submission meets the scope of the inquiry in
addressing opportunities to establish and implement best practice in public pandemic
communication and action in a national context. I note that some of what I will say will run
counter to public statements already made by members of the Panel.

Public Health and trust in government
In times of crisis, especially in a pandemic in which one person's actions directly and indirectly
affect many others, public health and safety prioritizes collective well-being—such as protection
from the spread of disease—over individual autonomy. In doing so, it ultimately fosters equity,
individual autonomy and opportunity for all, as well as the survival and well-being of society as a
whole. This is, after all, precisely what government and governance exist to do. And doing it
requires high levels of sustained trust in both, and, crucially, in the professional and technical
expertise that make them possible.

                                                                              says eminent
feminist philosopher Professor)

MB In a pandemic, personal choice is never simply that. Humans are necessarily
interdependent: this is the reason societies exist. For societies to survive and thrive, and for
social cohesion and trust in government to be sustained, we need actively to promote an ethos
of mutual care rather than an unconstrained free-for-all of 'you do you', a Lord of the Flies-\]\<.e
scenario instantiated in the idea of 'individual responsibility' and 'user pays' principles applied
to public health. In the long run, the idealisation of sheer individualism serves no one.

An ethos of mutual care means recognising that societies - dense networks of interconnection -
are only as strong as their weakest connections. This means not only those most at risk from the
consequences of severe disease, but also all those who are most exposed to constant
reinfection and therefore to the risks of longer term damage entailed in that, long suspected
and now confirmed by numerous studies. This includes families with school age children,
teachers, healthcare workers at every level, including aged care and childcare, essential workers
such as bus drivers, and all those in public-facing modes of employment including in cafes, bars
and restaurants and in the Public Service. The 'weakest links' are very numerous indeed, and are
comprised especially by women who do most of the care work essential to a functioning society,
and children who spend most of their day in congregate settings. This makes transparency and
equity issues key to the ethos of mutual care that underlies the very concept of Public Health.

Transparency in public messaging
In this context, transparency means providing the best, clearest and most accurate advice
according to evidence available, revised - and if necessary, corrected - as better evidence
becomes available. This is not what happened, and it is not what is happening now. Instead, the



                                                                                                       1
public has been left largely unaware that transmission is airborne, that reinfection poses any
serious risk to health, or what the most effective protections in addition to vaccination might be.

Transparency first of all requires open and frank acknowledgement that although COVID-19 is no
longer considered by WHO to be a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, WHO
nevertheless recognises that the COVID-19 pandemic has not ended and also that it is unlikely to
be declared over in the near term. In fact, Australia is now undergoing its third major COVID
surge for 2023, and it is rapidly becoming clear that the JN.l variant, which is causing
exponential growth in cases worldwide, is likely to do considerable damage here. However, the
federal government officially refers to the pandemic in the past tense as if the threat of serious
disease has passed. This is clearly misleading at best, not to say dishonest.

Worse, infection began to be normalised when CMO^^^assured the public that a combination
of high levels of vaccination and infection would bring about what he called 'hybrid immunity' to
the virus. Yet that is not what transpired, and in fact, in although case numbers fluctuate,
people continued and still continue to suffer acute illness, to be admitted to hospital, and even
to die. Worse still, reinfection has become progressively more common and with it comes a
higher risk of adverse sequelae like strokes, heart attacks, diabetes, kidney problems, chronic
fatigue and immune dysregulation especially in younger people, making the population more
susceptible to bacterial, fungal and other opportunistic viral infections, whether or not
symptoms of initial infection in individuals were 'mild' and whether or not some infections were
asymptomatic. The numbers of deaths during the acute stage of the disease might continue to
decline, but equally, they might not, given the advent of new and radically different variants. Of
enormous concern is the longer term problem of major decline in population health that now
faces us, diminishing our ability to deal with other crises.

In order for Australians to have the opportunity to adequately assess both the individual and
societal risks of infection, I call upon this Inquiry to recommend a wide-ranging, open and
honest public health campaign directly addressing misinformation about - now disproven -
herd or hybrid immunity, and droplet rather than airborne transmission. It should also provide
information about asymptomatic transmission, and the most effective protections in addition to
vaccination: clean indoor air, P2/N95 respirators, nasal sprays and so on. And it should dispel
mistaken notions that blue surgical masks, handwashing (although it is good for other things)
and physical distancing offer sufficient protection from COVID-19. It should also address the
legal duty of employers to provide safe workplaces - especially in schools, healthcare, aged care
and childcare - and it should outline what to do should this not happen. This campaign should
have special versions addressing particular ethnic communities in their various first languages
and should be co-designed by them. It should be disseminated on every broadcast medium, in
print, and on all social media platforms and fronted by trusted public figures, as the hugely
effective HIV campaigns once were. I stress that this is absolutely crucial to maintain trust as the
longer term effects of the infection become increasingly palpable, and to build a base of
understanding should possibly unpopular mandates become necessary in the face of coming
epidemics of avian flu or other infectious diseases. I would argue that supposed unpopularity in
the current instance is not mainstream but actively manufactured by online bots and troll farms
and needs to be equally actively countered. Here the advent of JN.l offers us a chance to reset.

Transparency in governance
In addition to downplaying increasing evidence of the longer term damage to health by
infection, especially repeated, National Cabinet and AHPPC together removed all mitigations



                                                                                                   2
and protections including isolation requirements, PCR testing and RAT reporting requirements,
and even mask mandates in healthcare, rendering hospital and GP visits utterly unsafe not only
for those deemed 'vulnerable', but for everyone. Therefore, to ensure transparency and to
maintain trust in governance and to enable Australians to assess whether decisions made on
their behalf were and are supported by high quality evidence and fully justified, I call upon this
Inquiry to recommend that minutes of all past and any future meetings of National Cabinet
pertaining to public health and the pandemic and those of AHPPC, be made public
immediately. Likewise, ATAGI's advice about vaccinations has been slow, confusing and
contradictory, and eligibility seems to have been determined by what was ordered and when,
rather than on health grounds. I also call on this Inquiry to recommend the immediate
publication of minutes of the meetings of this body.

Trust in Expertise
  ubiic Health requires trust in independent scientific and professional expertise. Yet this has
been undermined by politically-based decision-making and public messaging and by politically-
constrained public health officials, while the advice of independent experts (notably OzSage
members) has been actively ignored. Government misinformation has infected even GP clinics,
to the extent that many overwhelmed GPs, who have little time to read papers in complex
multidisciplinary medical science in their family time of an evening, are passing it on to
concerned patients seeking answers to questions about their own health. Specialists are not
exempt from this. And it is reinforced by hospital administrators and practice managers who look
to cut costs by reducing even the most minimal PPE and who (I am told by medical friends
including one very senior one) will bully medical staff into compliance with the result that
nosocomial infection is sky rocketing. All this undermines trust in particular medical advice and
professional expertise more broadly. I therefore call on this Inquiry to recommend that
professional organisations play an active role in educating and supporting their memberships
about best practice in airborne infection control and the reasons why it is needed.

Questions of evidence and the disappearance of data
It is true that not all studies are of equal quality. But the insistence on RCT as gold standard is
misplaced. The ever-changing and rapidly developing aandemic requires a more agile response.
Clinical observation by respiratory physicians, immunologists, nephrologists and others is hugely
undervalued, yet older clinicians with decades of experience often embodied a sentinel
intelligence about what was to come. They were and are still ignored or dismissed. The weight
of evidence about the long term, likely cumulative damage done by COVID-19 infection now
seems overwhelming, regardless of the acknowledged limitations of particular studies. As with
global heating, we have to ask, how much evidence is enough? The precautionary principle
needs to be applied, especially where the stakes are as high as they are now.
Similarly, airborne infection requires different expertise, and aerosol scientists (notably,
internationally renowned expert Prof                        and engineers. I call for this Inquiry to
recommend a response led by them wmcfungently prioritises a national clean air
infrastructure program. Finally, data must be systematically collected including via easily
accessible free PCR testing and transparently reported according to national standards which
must be rapidly developed. Without data there can be no science, no transparency, and no
accountability. To fail to adequately collect it endangers our democracy. As for costs: as with the
climate crisis, we must adequately model the costs of inaction. And, as with the climate change,
they will likely dwarf the costs of decisive, transformative action now. I call for the Inquiry to
recommend greater transparency in and public release of all data and modelling relevant to
this and future pandemics.



                                                                                                     3
4
