COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY




       AUSTRALIA’S COVID-19 RESPONSE:

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PUBLIC HEALTH




                                                          9'




                               VACCINE?
                              _ '•   FwKltci r'Wi   4LL




     Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, Free the Vaccine Campaign



                       DR MATTHEW RIMMER

PROFESSOR OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND INNOVATION LAW

   THE AUSTRALIAN CENTRE FOR HEALTH LAW RESEARCH

                 FACULTY OF BUSINESS AND LAW

          QUEENSLAND UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY




                  Queensland University of Technology




                Work Telephone Number:
SUMMARY


The purpose of the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) is to identify lessons
learned to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.
         There has been a growing literature on COVID-19 law and policy - looking at the responses of international
institutions, national governments, and judicial systems to the public health crisis.1 This submission focuses upon the
role of intellectual property in terms of Australia’s COVID-19 response. The Federal Government has responsibility
for intellectual property law and policy - both under the intellectual property power and the external affairs power of
the Australian Constitution?' So this submission does concern the ‘role of the Commonwealth Government’ in terms
of ‘key health response measures’ and ‘international policies to support Australians at home and abroad.’
         This submission focuses on the intellectual property dimensions of Australia’s response to the COVID-19 crisis
- which both has national and international dimensions. Part 1 of the submission considers Australia’s position in
debates over international intellectual property and access to essential medicines. Part 2 addresses questions in respect
of patent law and access to essential medicines in the COVID-19 public health emergency. Part 3 explores the diverse
role of other forms of intellectual property during the COVID-19 crisis.

1.     INTERNATIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

This submission focuses upon intellectual property, access to essential medicines, and COVID-19. It considers the
Australian Government’s response to legal issues in respect of the COVID-19 pandemic relating to intellectual
property, public health, and international trade. This submission considers the challenges and obstacles presented by
vaccine nationalism and commercial profiteering during the COVID-19 crisis.

TRIPS Waiver. There was a call by                         of UNAIDS and Oxfam for a ’People’s Vaccine’ during the
COVID-19 crisis.3 This call was taken up by civil society organisations, health groups, and developing countries. In
international debates over intellectual property, trade, and public health, India and South Africa proposed a TRIPS
Waiver to enable nation states to suspend the operation of the TRIPS Agreement 1994 insofar as it related to
technologies needed to combat the COVID-19 crisis.4 The Australian Government vacillated on the topic of a TRIPS
Waiver. At first, the Morrison Government was unwilling to support the TRIPS Waiver proposal. The Australian Labor
Party5 and the Australian Greens6 were critical that the Morrison Government was non-committal about the TRIPS
Waiver. The Morrison Government then changed its position, and expressed limited support for a TRIPS Waiver
confined to vaccines.7 This switch of position coincided with a diplomatic change of position by the Biden
Administration - which expressed a willingness to support a TRIPS Waiver for vaccines. However, the proposal for a
TRIPS Waiver did not reach consensus support.8 The European Union, the United Kingdom, and Switzerland were
obstinate in their opposition to a TRIPS Waiver (whatever form that might take).9 Arguably, a full endorsement of the
TRIPS Waiver by the Australian Government would have helped boost domestic biomanufacturing of vaccines,
treatments, diagnostics, and health-equipment, as well as assist our near neighbours in the Asia-Pacific.

Ministerial Decision. In 2022, the Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization agreed to the Ministerial
Decision on the TRIPS Agreement 2022.10 This limited decision allowed for the broader use of compulsory licensing
of patents for the purpose of exporting vaccines.11 Australia’s Minister for Tradeargued that the decision
sent ‘a powerful signal of global solidarityin fighting COVID-19 and reaffirming the role the WTO can play in
responding to urgent global issues’.12BBBWinsisted that the decision ‘will support equitable access to vaccines for
developing countries, including across the Indo-Pacific region.’13 However, many civil society organisations in
Australia were disappointed by the Ministerial Decision on the TRIPS Agreement 2022.14 In practice, the decision has
had no influence on the distribution of vaccines to deal with the COVID-19 crisis.

Pandemic Treaty. The Australian Government is involved in negotiations in the World Health Organization over the
foundation of a Pandemic Treaty,15 and discussions on changes to International Health Regulations.16 The Federal
Department of Health has observed that a number of principles guide Australia’s approach to the negotiations.17 The
Australian Government wants to ‘maintain Australia’s sovereignty to make and implement decisions to protect the
health of Australians.’18 It hopes to ‘promote fairness, advance gender equality, and uphold human rights’.19 At the
same time, the Australian Government has vowed to ‘uphold intellectual property rights’.20 There has been discussion
as to whether a Pandemic Treaty should include text on intellectual property, and, if so, what form that text should take.

                                                            2
There has been a call from civil society and developing nations to recognise intellectual property flexibilities in a
Pandemic Treaty, as well as alternative models of research and development, such as open innovation.21

2.     PATENT LAW

There has been a longstanding debate over the relationship between patent law and access to essential medicines.22
There have been controversies over the role of patent law and the provision public health in relation to HIV/AIDS,
malaria, and tuberculosis. There have been patent races in relation to new emerging infectious diseases, such as the
SARS virus,23 avian influenza, the Zika virus. The COVID-19 crisis provided a new context in which there have been
tensions in respect of intellectual property and access to essential medicines.

Patent Litigation. There have been patents filed around in respect of COVID-19 related technologies - including
vaccines, diagnostics, treatments, and health equipment. The patent landscape is a very messy one with thickets of
patents around key technologies designed to address COVID-19. There has been increasing patent disputes over key
technologies related to COVID-19 vaccines.               and ^^^^^|have challenged^^^^^^BcOVID-19 vaccine
patents at the US Patent Office.24                                  has brought patent infringement action against^^M
and            over its patents in lipid nanoparticle technology.25 No doubt there will be Australian patent disputes over
key COVID-19 vaccines, diagnostics, and treatments in the future. The ultimate patent ownership and control of
COVID-19 vaccinees, diagnostics, treatments, and health equipment will have ramifications for Australia’s public
health.

Patent Flexibilities. During the COVID-19 crisis, there was debate in the Australian Parliament as to whether the
Australiai^rovenimun^hould make use of patent flexibilities - such as Crown Use and compulsory licensing.26 The
Hon.                        of the Australian Labor Party questioned the Morrison Government as to whether it would
use patent flexibilities to address public health concerns.27 The Australian Government should make use of domestic
compulsory licensing flexibilities under patent law in order to ensure fair competition, boost public health, and enable
technology transfer. Australia should enable the use of compulsory licensing for the purposes of the export of essential
medicines - particularly to developing countries and least developed countries in the Asia-Pacific. If need be, the
Australian Government should deploy Crown Use provisions and government acquisition powers in the case of market
failure in the production and distribution of COVID-19 technologies.

Patent Licensing. The Medicines Patent Pool expanded its mandate and jurisdiction so that it could cover the COVID-
19 crisis.28 The organisation seeks to overcome intellectual property barriers through voluntary licensing Australia
should reinforce the work of the Medicines Patent Pool in the distribution of COVID-19 related technologies. Public
sector research organisations, philanthropic entities, and private companies should contribute to the Medicines Patent
Pool.
         The World Health Organization established the C-TAP - the Coronavirus Technology Access Pool - building
upon a proposal from Costa Rica.29 The Australian Government, public sector research organisations, philanthropic
entities, and private companies should contribute to C-TAP.
         The Universities Allied for Essential Medicines argued that there should also be scope for public sector licensing
- particularly where there has been public sector funding of COVID-19 related technologies.30
         The Open COVID Pledge was a useful means of allowing intellectual property owners to signal that they would
decline to engage in IP litigation during the COVID-19 crisis.31 There has been much interest in the development of
open innovation models to help the development of new vaccines, diagnostics, and treatments for COVID-19. The
COVID Moonshot project is an example of an Open Science project.32

3.     OTHER FORMS OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

Copyright Law and Access to Knowledge. COVID-19 had an impact upon access to knowledge, education, and
learning - particularly during lockdown periods. In this context, a number of digital libraries sought to make materials
more widely available during the public health emergency.
       In response, publishers sued the Internet Archive in the United States for copyright infringement over its digital
lending scheme and its National Emergency Library.33 The Internet Archive argued that its actions were protected by



                                                            3
the defence of fair use - and various copyright exceptions. The publishers have prevailed at first instance - but the
matter is under appeal.
        It would be worthwhile considering the operation of Australia’s copyright law and its exceptions during a public
health emergency. The current purpose-specific fair dealing provisions under copyright law are not necessarily well-
adapted to deal with the exigencies of a public health epidemic.

Designs Law and the Right to Repair. During the COVID-19 crisis, the Productivity Commission was conducting an
inquiry into the right to repair.34 This investigation looked at intellectual property (including designs law); consumer
law and competition policy; and environmental stewardship and sustainable development. The Productivity
Commission made a number of recommendations to support a right to repair in Australia.35 However, the Productivity
Commission recommended that there should be a separate inquiry into the topic of the medical right to repair. The
question of the medical right to repair was highlighted by the COVID-19 crisis - in which there was a need to repair
and fix medical equipment and supplies in the middle of lockdowns. There has been a call for a recognition of the
medical right to repair - particularly in the context of public health emergencies.36

Trade Marks. During the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a rush to register COVID-19 related trade marks in relation
to a wide range of goods and services. IP Australia took a hard line against trade mark applications containing references
to COVID-19.37 IP Australia rejected many applications on the basis that the registration of COVID-19 Marks would
be scandalous or offensive to ordinary Australians in view of the detrimental impact of the pandemic in Australia. IP
Australia was also reluctant to grant trade marks in respect of descriptive uses of the term of COVID-19.

Consumer Protection. Consumer law is often conceived as an important supplement to trade mark law. The ACCC
took action in respect of false and misleading representations about COVID-19 made by companies. Notably, the
ACCC brought litigation againstin the Federal Court of Australia over its false ‘anti-virus activewear’
claims.38 The ACCC also initiated action against                      for misleading representations about government
approval of products - during public concern about COVID-19.39 The Therapeutic Goods Administratior^HGA) also
took action over illegal advertising related to COVID-19. The TGA issued infringement notices to                company
over the promotion of                   device.40 There were also larger problems in respect of fraudulent claims relating
to COVID vaccinations - and a larger increase in fraud during the COVID-19 lockdown period.41

Trade Secrets and Data Protection. Trade secrets have played an important role in vaccine development, and the
creation of diagnostics and treatments during the COVID-19 pandemic.42 There have been a number of instances in
which COVID-19 vaccine developers have brought action for breach of trade secrets (not always with success).43
National governments have also taken action in respect of trade secrets theft of COVID-19 technologies directed by
foreign principals.44 Some scholars have called for compulsory licensing of trade secrets to ensure access to COVID-
19 vaccines.45 There has been discussions of the use of data protection in respect of COVID-19 related information and
knowledge.

CONCLUSION

The Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry should seek to investigate Australia’s position in
international intellectual property debates during the COVID-19 crisis - in particular, looking at the TRIPS Waiver
proposal, the Ministerial Decision on the TRIPS Agreement 2022, and the Pandemic Treaty. Clearly, there needs to be
better articulated intellectual property flexibilities to deal with public health emergencies. There should be a review of
Australia’s patent law, policy, and practice to see whether it was well-adapted to deal with the public health emergency
of the COVID-19 crisis. Likewise, there is a need to consider other fields of intellectual property, and their role during
the COVID-19 pandemic. Copyright law had a significant impact in relation to access to education, knowledge, and
learning during COVID-19 lockdowns. Intellectual property and the medical right to repair were an important issue
during the COVID-19 crisis. Trade mark law and consumer protection played an important role in dealing with
misleading and deceptive representations about COVID-19. Trade secrets and data protection also played a significant
role as supplementary forms of intellectual property protection in relation to COVID-19 technologies. Intellectual
property law and policy has also had a bearing in respect of COVID-19 recovery plans.46 Australia should conduct a
full review of its intellectual property system to see whether it is well prepared for future pandemics.47



                                                            4
Biography


Dr Matthew Rimmer is a Professor in Intellectual Property and Innovation Law at the Faculty of Business and Law, at
the Queensland University of Technology (QUT). He has published widely on copyright law and information
technology, patent law and biotechnology, access to medicines, plain packaging of tobacco products, intellectual
property and climate change, Indigenous Intellectual Property, intellectual property and trade, and 3D printing
regulation. He is undertaking research on intellectual property and sustainable development (including the debate over
the right to repair); greenwashing; intellectual property, access to essential medicines, and public health (particularly
looking at the COVID-19 crisis), and tobacco endgame policies. His work is archived at QUT ePrints, SSRN
Abstracts, Bepress Selected Works, and Open Science Framework.
        Rimmer has published four major research monographs. Rimmer is the author of a research monograph, The
Trans-Pacific Partnership: Intellectual Property and Trade in the Pacific Rim (Edward Elgar, 2020), Intellectual
Property and Climate Change: Inventing Clean Technologies (Edward Elgar, 2011), Intellectual Property and
Biotechnology: Biological Inventions (Edward Elgar, 2008), and Digital Copyright and the Consumer Revolution:
Hands off my iPod (Edward Elgar, 2007). His PhD Dissertation is on The Pirate Bazaar: The Social Life of Copyright
LawifnSSW, 2001).
        Rimmer has also edited a number of collections. In collaboration with Bita Amani and Caroline B. Ncube,
Rimmer is the editor of the Elgar Companion on Intellectual Property and the Sustainable Development Goals (Edward
Elgar, 2024). Along with Dinusha Mendis and Mark Lemley, Rimmer is the editor of the collection, 3D Printing and
Beyond: Intellectual Property and Regulation (Edward Elgar, 2019). Rimmer is the editor of the collection, Intellectual
Property and Clean Energy: The Paris Agreement and Climate Justice (Springer, 2018). Rimmer has edited a special
issue of the QUT Law Review on the topic, The Plain Packaging of Tobacco Products (2017) - which featured a
foreword by former Minister for Health and Attorney-General Nicola Roxon. Rimmer is the editor of the collection,
Indigenous Intellectual Property: A Handbook of Contemporary Research (Edward Elgar, 2015). Rimmer is also a co­
editor of Intellectual Property and Emerging Technologies: The New Biology (Edward Elgar, 2012), and Incentivesfor
Global Public Health: Patent Law and Access to Essential Medicines (Cambridge University Press, 2010). Rimmer
edited the thematic issue of Law in Context, entitled Patent Law and Biological Inventions (Federation Press, 2006).
        Over the past two decades, Rimmer's research has been supported by a number of nationally competitive
research grant applications. Rimmer has been a chief investigator in an Australian Research Council Discovery Project,
'Gene Patents In Australia: Options For Reform' (2003-2005), an Australian Research Council Linkage Grant, 'The
Protection of Botanical Inventions' (2003); an Australian Research Council Linkage Grant, Unlocking IP' (2006-2008)
and an Australian Research Council Discovery Project, 'Promoting Plant Innovation in Australia' (2009-2011). He was
an Australian Research Council Future Fellow, working on Intellectual Property and Climate Change from 2011 to
2015. Rimmer was a Chief Investigator on an ARC Discovery Project on 'Inventing The Future: Intellectual Property
and 3D Printing' (2017-2021). He is a chief investigator of the NHMRC Centre of Research Excellence on Achieving
the Tobacco Endgame (CREATE) (2020-2025). Rimmer has experience in directing large-scale collaborative research
projects on intellectual property and global challenges.
        Rimmer is a chief investigator in the QUT Centre for Behavioural Economics, Society, and Technology (QUT
BEST); and the QUT Australian Centre for Health Law Research (QUT ACHLR). He is a chief investigator in the
NHMRC Centre of Research Excellence on Achieving the Tobacco Endgame (CREATE) (2020-2025) - a transnational
research network. Rimmer was previously the leader of the QUT Intellectual Property and Innovation Law Research
Program from 2015-2020 (QUT IPIL). He was also a member of the QUT Digital Media Research Centre (QUT
DMRC), the QUT Centre for the Digital Economy, the QUT Centre for Justice, the QUT Centre for Clean Energy
Technologies and Processes, and the QUT International Law and Global Governance Research Program.
        Dr Matthew Rimmer holds a BA (Hons) and a University Medal in literature (1995), and a LLB (Hons) (1997)
from the Australian National University. He received a PhD in law from the University of New South Wales for his
dissertation on The Pirate Bazaar: The Social Life of Copyright Law (1998-2001). Dr Matthew Rimmer was a lecturer,
senior lecturer, and an associate professor at the ANU College of Law, and a research fellow and an associate director
of the Australian Centre for Intellectual Property in Agriculture (ACIPA) (2001 to 2015). He was an Australian
Research Council Future Fellow, working on Intellectual Property and Climate Change from 2011 to 2015. He was a
member of the ANU Climate Change Institute.




                                                           5
The Australian Centre for Health Law Research

The Australian Centre for Health Law Research (ACHLR) is a research centre based at the Faculty of Business and
Law at the Queensland University of Technology (QUT).
        ACHLR is celebrating ten years of making a difference to health law. Health law is critical to support and
regulate health systems, the delivery of health services and positive health outcomes for individuals and society.
ACHLR is internationally recognised as a leading health law research centre, with 38 academic members, 20 PhD
students and 20 esteemed Adjunct Professors in the field of health law from across the globe. ACHLR researchers
undertake innovative interdisciplinary research into current and emerging health law challenges in Australia and
globally to produce an evidence base to properly address complex problems in the field of health and inform reforms
to health law, policy and practice in the context of constant societal change.
        ACHLR’s research critically evaluates the legal, ethical, policy and regulatory frameworks, both conceptual
and practical, which support and regulate the delivery of health services in diverse contexts. It distils the links between
historical and current law, and its informing ethical and social realities and principles. We employ a range of research
methods, including doctrinal, ethical, and empirical approaches. Our research explains for academic, professional and
community audiences why the law takes its current form, how it can be critiqued, and how it might be reformed.
        During its ten-year history, ACHLR researchers have published 784 articles and book chapters; 25 books or
edited collections; produced 82 reports/policy briefings and submissions to government enquiries or royal
commissions; and graduated 30 PhD students. ACHLR researchers have been awarded $56 million in grant funding
during this time.
        ACHLR’s health law researchers draw on disciplines including ethics, philosophy, medicine, nursing,
psychology, economics, sociology and social work to address practical problems that arise in the health context. Our
researchers have a strong track record of undertaking high impact research in health law, policy, ethics, and regulation.
Our focus is not only on quality scholarship, but generating new knowledge, evidence, and insights to enhance health
and legal policy and practice, and to improve health outcomes. This research serves the interests of the individuals,
communities, and institutions that deliver and benefit from health services and other interventions that aim to improve
health locally and globally.
        Our research has had significant impact: our recommendations have been adopted by parliaments, courts and
tribunals, and law reform commissions. Our work has also influenced state and national policy, prompting changes to
clinical education in universities, hospitals and health departments. ACHLR has a strong international focus and
presence. We actively continue to build and maintain relationships with external partners to facilitate opportunities for
research collaborations, funded and unfunded, and to build and maintain our profile as a leading health law centre
globally.




                                                            6
          See Colleen Flood et al. (ed.), Vulnerable: The Law, Policy and Ethics of COVID-19, Ottawa: University of Ottawa Press, 2020;
Victor Ramraj (ed.), COVID-19 in Asia: Law and Policy Contexts, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2021; Belinda Bennett and Ian Freckelton
(ed.), Pandemics, Public Health Emergencies and Government Powers: Perspectives on Australian Law, Sydney: Federation Press, 2021; and
Belinda Bennett, Ian Freckelton and Gabrielle Wolf (ed.), COVID-19, Law and Regulation, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2023.
2         On the High Court of Australia’s interpretation of the Australian Constitution in respect of intellectual property, see Matthew Rimmer,
'Franklin Barley: Patent Law And Plant Breeders' Rights' (2003) 10 (4) Murdoch University Electronic Journal of Law, QUT ePrints:
https://eprints.qut.edu.au/85372/ and Matthew Rimmer, 'The High Court of Australia and the Marlboro Man: The Battle Over The Plain
Packaging of Tobacco Products', in Tania Voon, Andrew Mitchell, and Jonathan Liberman (Ed.) Regulating Tobacco, Alcohol and
Unhealthy Foods: The Legal Issues, London and New York: Routledge, 2014, 337-360.
          Matthew Rimmer, ‘The People’s Vaccine: Intellectual Property, Access to Essential Medicines, and COVID-19’ (2022) 5 (1) Journal
ofIntellectual Property Studies 1-71.
4         World Trade Organization, Waiver from Certain Provisions ofthe TRIPS Agreementfor the Prevention, Containment and Treatment
of COVID-19, Communication from India and South Africa, (2 October 2020) IP/C/W/669. See further Siva Thambisetty et al., ‘The TRIPS
Intellectual Property Waiver Proposal: Creating the Right Incentives in Patent Law and Politics to End the COVID-19 Pandemic’, LSE Legal
Studies Working Paper No 06/2021, 24 May 2021, https://papers.ssm.com/sol3/papers.cfm7abstract id=3 851737
5         Daniel Hurst, ‘Australian Government “Trying to Have it Both Ways’ on COVID Vaccine IP Waiver’, The Guardian, 25 November
2021,      https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/nov/25/australian-govemment-trying-to-have-it-both-ways-on-covid-vaccine-ip-
waive
6         Mehreen Faruqi, ‘Omicron Spurs Urgency of TRIPS Waiver and Vaccine Equity’, Greens, Press Release, 29 November 2021,
https://mehreen-famqi.greensmps.org.au/articles/omicron-spurs-urgencv-trips-waiver-and-vaccine-equitv
          Paul Karp and Elias Visontay, ‘Australia to Support Vaccine Waiver after Months of Pressure from Human Rights Groups’, The
Guardian, 8 September 2011, https://www.theguardian.com/societv/2021/sep/08/australia-to-support-vaccine-waiver-after-months-of-
pressure-from-human-rights-groups
          Priti Patnaik, The TRIPS Waiver Negotiations at the World Trade Organization, Geneva: Geneva Health Files, 2022.
9         Ibid.
10        Ministerial Decision on the TRIPS Agreement 2022, Ministerial Conference, Twelfth Session, Geneva, WT/MIN(22)/39m
WT/L/1141, adopted on 17 June 2022. See further Siva Thambisetty et al., ‘The COVID-19 TRIPS Waiver Process in Critical Review: An
Appraisal
of the        WTO        DG    Text    (IP/C/W/688)       and     Recommendations         for   Minimum         Modifications’     (2022)    SSRN
https://papers.ssm.com/sol3/papers.cfm7abstract id=4124497
11        The export mechanism for compulsory licensing under the TRIPS regime has been unworkable - it has only been used by Apotex
under Canada’s Access to Medicines regime to export HIV/AIDS drugs to Rwanda - and has not been used since: Matthew Rimmer, 'The Jean
Chretien Pledge to Africa Act: Patent Law and Humanitarian Aid' (2005) 15 (7) Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Patents 889-909; Matthew
Rimmer, 'Race Against Time: The Export of Essential Medicines to Rwanda' (2008) 1 (2) Public Health Ethics 89-103; and Muhammad Zaheer
Abbas, ‘Revisiting Canada's Access to Medicines Regime in Response to COVID-19: A Review of the Legislation and its Underlying
Objectives’ (2022) 34 (2) Intellectual Property Journal 147-180.
12        The Hon. Don Farell, ‘A Boost in Confidence at the World Trade Organization’, Press Release, Australian Government, 19 June
2022, https://www.trademinister.gov.au/minister/don-farrelVmedia-release/boost-confidence-world-trade-organization
13        Ibid.
14        AFTINET, Amnesty International, Action Aid Australia, International Nepal Fellowship Australia, Public Health Association of
Australia, and Uniting Church, ‘Meeting re Australia’s Implementation of the WTO Ministerial Decision on the TRIPS Agreement and other
Measures to Address Global Inequity in Access to COVID-19 Medicines’, 9 August 2022.
15        World Health Organization, ‘Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response Accord’, 28 June 2023, https://www.who.int/news-
room/questions-and-answers/item/pandemic-prevention—preparedness-and-response-accord
16        World Health Organization, International Health Regulations, https://www.who.int/health-topics/intemational-health-
regulations#tab=tab_ 1
17        Department of Health and Aged Care, ‘Strengthening Global Health and International Pandemic Response’, Australian Government,
6 October 2023, https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/strengthening-global-health-and-intemational-pandemic-response
18 Ibid.
19 Ibid.
20 Ibid.
21 Luke Taylor, ‘WHO Pandemic Treaty: Negotiations falter as Pharma Companies Warn that Intellectual Property Rules Will Harm
Profits’ (2023) British Medical JoHr/iaZ https://www.bmj.com/content/383/bmj.p2475
22 Thomas Pogge, Matthew Rimmer and Kim Rubenstein, (ed.) Incentives for Global Public Health: Patent Law and Access to
Medicines. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010; Carlos Correa and Reto Hilty (ed.), Access to Medicines and Vaccines:
Implementing Flexibilities Under Intellectual Property Law, Cham (Switzerland): Springer, 2021; Ana Santos Rutschman, Vaccines as
Technology: Innovation, Barriers, and the Public Health, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2022; and Emmanuel Kolawole Oke,
Patents, Human Rights, and Access to Medicines, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2022.
23 Matthew Rimmer, 'The Race To Patent The SARS Vims: The TRIPS Agreement And Access To Essential Medicines' (2004) 5
(2) Melbourne Journal ofInternational Law 335-374.
24 Blake Brittain, ‘Pfizer, BioNTech challenge Modema COVID-19 vaccine patents at US Patent Office’, Reuters, 29 August 2023,
https://www.reuters.com/legaVlitigation/pfizer-biontech-challenge-modema-covid-19-vaccine-patents-us-patent-office-2023-08-28/
25 Blake Brittain, ‘Pfizer, Modema hit with new Alnylam patent lawsuits over COVID-19 vaccines’, Reuters, IT May 2023,
https://www.reuters.com/legaVpfizer-modema-hit-with-new-alnvlam-patent-lawsuits-over-covtd-19-vaccines-2023-05-26/
                                                                       7
26 Matthew Rimmer, ‘Australia’s Framework for Access to Essential Medicines: Patent Law, Public Health, and Pandemics’ in Belinda
Bennett and Ian Freckelton (ed.), Australian Public Health Law Sydney: Federation Press, 2023, 179-216.
27 The Hon. Brendan O’Connor, ''Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Bill 2020 (Cth)’, House of Representatives,
Australian                     Parliament,                    23                   March                   2020,                     2801,
https://parlinfo.aph.gov.au/parlInfo/search/displav/displav.w3p;querv=Id%3A%22chamber%2Fhansardr%2Fbead2837-76c9-4ce9-952b-
eafe8e2d614f%2F0026%22
28 Medicines Patent Pool, https://medicinespatentpool.org/
29 C-TAP, https://www.who.int/initiatives/covid-19-technologv-access-pool
30 Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, ‘UAEM Responds to COVID-19’, https://www.uaem.org/covid-19
31 Open COVID Pledge, https://opencovidpledge.org/
32 COVID Moonshot, https://dndi.org/research-development/portfolio/covid-moonshot/
          Matthew Rimmer, ‘The Internet Archive and the National Emergency Library: Copyright Law and COVID-19’, (2022) 11 (5) Laws,
Article No. 79. (Published 19 October 2022), https://www.mdpi.eom/2075-471X/ll/5/79
34 Productivity Commission, Right to Repair: Inquiry Report No. 97, Melbourne: Productivity Commission, 2021,
https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/repair/report
35 Matthew Rimmer, ‘Shane Rattenbury, The Productivity Commission, and The Right To Repair: Intellectual Property, Consumer
Rights, and Sustainable Development in Australia’, (2022/2023) 37 (3) Berkeley Technology Law Journal 989-1056.
36 Matthew Rimmer, ‘The Medical Right to Repair: Intellectual Property, the Maker Movement, and COVID-19’, (2023) 15 (20)
Sustainability Article No. 14839, https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/15/20/14839 and Muhammad Zaheer Abbas, ‘The Right to Repair
Medical Equipment in a Health Emergency: Australia Needs to Reform its Patent Law’, Productivity Commission Submission, 2021,
https://eprints.qut.edu.au/226434/
          Michael Cassidy, Gina Tresidder and Kate Littlewood, TP Australia's Natural Immunity to COVID-19 Trade Marks’, Russell
Kennedy, 30 November 2021, https://www.russellkennedv.com.au/insights-events/insights/ip-australias-natural-immunitv-to-covid-19-trade-
    ks
38 ACCC, ‘Loma Jane pays $5 Million over False “Anti-virus Activewear” claims’, ACCC, 23 July 2021,
https://www.accc.gov.au/media-release/loma-iane-pavs-5-million-over-false-anti-vims-activewear-claims
39 ACCC, ‘Mosaic Brands pays Penalties for Alleged Misleading Representations about Government Approval of Products’, 15
S eptemb er      2022,    https://www.accc.gov.au/media-release/mosaic-brands-pavs-penalties-for-alleged-misleading-representations-about-
govemment-approval-of-products
40 Therapeutic Goods Administration, ‘Pete Evans' company fined for alleged COVID-19 advertising breaches’, Press Release, 24 April
2020, https://www.tga.gov.au/news/media-releases/pete-evans-companv-fined-alleged-covid-19-advertising-breaches
41 Cassandra Cross, ‘Submission to the Vaccine Related Fraud and Security Risks Inquiry’, Australian Parliament, 2021,
https://eprints.qut.edu.au/226259/
42 David S. Levine, ‘Trade Secrets and the Battle Against COVID’ (2020) 15 (11) Journal of Intellectual Property Law and Practice
849.
43 See for instance Blake Brittain, ‘Emcure Wins Dismissal of US Lawsuit Over COVID-19 Vaccine Trade Secrets’, Reuters, 6
December 2023, https://www.reuters.com/legal/litigation/emcure-wins-dismissal-us-lawsuit-over-covid-19-vaccine-trade-secrets-2023-12-
04/
44 US Department of Justice, ‘Two Chinese Hackers Working with the Ministry of State Security Charged with Global Computer
Intrusion Campaign Targeting Intellectual Property and Confidential Business Information, Including COVID-19 Research’, Press Release, 21
July 2020, https://www.iustice.gov/opa/pr/two-chinese-hackers-working-ministrv-state-secuiitv-charged-global-computer-intmsion
45 Olga Gurgula and John Hull, ‘Compulsory Licensing of Trade Secrets: Ensuring access to COVID-19 Vaccines via Involuntary
Technology Transfer’, (2021) Journal ofIntellectual Property Law and Practice jpab 129.
46 Matthew Rimmer, ‘The UNDP Accelerator Lab Network: Intellectual Property, Innovation Policy, Sustainable Development, and the
COVID-19 Recovery’, in Taina Pihlajarinne, Jukka Tapio Mahonen, and Pratyush Nath Upreti (ed.), Intellectual Property Rights in the Post
Pandemic World: An Integrated framework of Sustainability, Innovation and Global Justice, Cheltenham and Northampton (Ma.): Edward
Elgar, 2023, 246-276.
47 The Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, COVID-19: Make It The Last Pandemic, Geneva: World Health
Organization, 2021, https://theindependentpanel.org/ (chaired by Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and Helen Clark).




                                                                    8
