                     Serious concerns relating to the Australian Government's response to the Covid Pandemic



Firstly, it is interesting to note that in October 2019, just prior to the Covid outbreak, a meeting (event 201) was held in the John
Hopkins centre for Health and Security in New York, in which strategies for controlling the populace during a pandemic were
discussed. The Australian representative was Jane Halton. The meeting was organised by the World Economic Forum and the Bill
and Melinda Gates Foundation.

It is also interesting to note that                              built a factory to produce PCR test-kits well before the
Covid pandemic was declared. The PCR test was invented by^^^^^^Hwho stated that it should never be used to diagnose a
virus (quote "You can find anything in anything using PCR"). The over-magnification of PCR test samples meant that even traces
of dead virus would be picked up. The high cycle thresholds produced false positive readings, which spread panic.

Natural immunity was down-played. The government promoted a climate of fear, ands there was a lack of basic health advice,
such as get plenty of sunshine and exercise, and boost your Vitamin D levels.

Measures such as mask-wearing were not based on good scientific data, in fact giving people a false sense of security.

Ivermectin and similar cheaper effective alternative treatments were stigmatised and made unavailable in order to allow the
mRNA vaccines to be granted legal acceptance in spite of their 'experimental' status.

The Pharmaceutical companies producing the vaccines were granted indemnity against vaccine injury claims, which meant that
any vaccine harm claims would have to be funded by the tax-paying public.

The promotion and use of Remdesivir was at best ill-advised and at worst criminal. It had been tested in African trials supervised
by Anthony Fauci and shown to cause liver and kidney damage leading to deaths.

The isolation of elderly patients in aged care facilities, whose relatives were unable to visit was inexcusably cruel.

The ubiquitous use of midazolam particularly on elderly hospital patients regardless of whether they were near death was highly
questionable.

The push to ignore comorbidities in patients and label them all as Covid victims added to the general panic.

The severe lockdowns, particularly in Victoria, caused the collapse of small businesses and hardship for many low- and middle­
income earners and wrecked the state's economy.

The vaccine mandates and stigmatising of those who resisted taking this experimental vaccine, falsely accusing them of
spreading the virus was both divisive and unethical.

The use of brutal police force to quell protests - particularly in Victoria - was characteristic of a dictatorship.

AHPRA's silencing of many highly qualified medical practitioners and specialists who questioned governmental strategies, and
the labelling of dissenting voices as dis- and mis-information or conspiracy theorists was undemocratic and unscientific, stifling
useful debate.

The government's use of the mainstream media to drum up fear and promote the experimental mNRA vaccines was highly
unethical. The government's unfounded claims of the Covid 'vaccines' as being safe and effective, the promotion of these
'vaccines' for children and pregnant women regardless of possible long-term harms, and the ostracizing, down-playing or
ignoring many sufferers of side effects was - at the very least - criminal negligence.

In contrast to the alarmism at the beginning of the pandemic and throughout 2020 when there were no excess deaths, there is
now complete silence from the government and the mainstream media regarding the alarming and unprecedented rise in
mortality rates in all western countries, particularly those with the highest 'vaccination' rates.

                                                                                                               Patricia Bish 14/12/2023
