I am writing in response to your invitation to provide submissions into the Covid 19 Response
Inquiry.

I am a hard-working Victorian who has contributed to the community and society my entire life.
I'm a law-abiding citizen. I have never been particularly political - putting my trust in those
elected by the people to do the right thing by us. Unfortunately, this blind faith has been proven
to be misplaced over the Covid era and beyond.

Under the Andrew's and Labour leadership in Victoria, we lived through the longest lockdown in
the world, with the harshest lockdown conditions. Businesses were sent broke, the state economy
left in ruins, people fleeing the state in numbers not experienced before, families separated,
children locked out of playgrounds, mental health issues through the roof. Despite the harshest of
harsh lock down conditions - we also had the worst COVID outcomes in the country, the greatest
number of cases and the most deaths.

I, my family, and my friends suffered significantly. Our stories will be like so many others you have
already heard other. But to outline just a few for you, my sister and her husband lost their
business. Their eldest daughter spent 12 months in her bedroom home schooling, and now has
                     a part of her every day. The^-year-old son of a good friend^^^^^^l
        the day the last lockdown was announced, unable to take it anymore. My^-year-old
widowed mother spent months alone.

Since the vaccine mandates the all cause mortality rates have increased in tandem. Correlation is
not causation they say? From within my own circles I am aware of 15 people who have died
unexpectedly from conditions like heart attacks, stroke, turbo cancer. All under 60, all healthy and
active. This doesn't include the huge numbers of increased people with significant health issues.

In in^H Within my workplace of 150 employees, in the last 12 months we've had two employees
experience strokes, three with heart attacks, and eight cancer cases. I've been with the business
for 28 years and have never in this time experienced such health outcomes. In that 28-year
journey we've had one heart attack and two cancer victims, compared to 12 instances within 12
months.

And what of mask mandates, particularly with children? All masks do is create unnecessary
disease, they were never effective in stopping the spread, all the historical evidence demonstrated
that.

What was all this for? The Covid outcomes did not change despite these measures and the
destruction caused.

So much more than an enquiry is needed. All actions of States and Territories need to be included
in the terms of reference. Only a Royal Commission will ensure such devastation and overreach is
not repeated. And a Royal Commission not compromised with participants who have publicly
supported the actions taken by State and Territories.

I urge those in decision making positions to rejedt this inquiry and push for a Royal Commission as
promised at the election. Or are we seeing just more broken election promise?
