My name is                 ar|d I run my own small training business delivering services nationally. At
the time of lockdowns I lived in an area deemed to be metro VIC and so was heavily impacted by the
decisions made in response to the 'pandemic'.

I have dot pointed below various thoughts on what was wrong with the governments response
NOTING THAT IS STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT THE STATES RESPONSES SHOULD BE CONSIDERED IN THIS
ENQUIRY AND NOT JUST THE FEDERAL RESPONSE

    •   It was clear from evidence overseas that the virus was not as 'deadly' as first thought BUT
        the government continued down its original path of fearmongering and promoting an
        ineffective vaccine.
    •   The federal government did not appear to have any say in strategies taken - it was very
        weak. The States and Territories should never have been allowed to make up their own
        responses it needed a coordinated national approach.
    •   Key messaging was 'Every life matters' and suddenly we were being told about almost every
        death in Australia and Covid was blamed. It has become apparent that people died with
        Covid and not of Covid yet the scare mongering continued. The media was given free reign
        (probably with the government blessing to create hype and scaremongering that was
        unnecessary and unhealthy). People were in a state of fear and panic for months and months
        and the government did nothing to stop the constant fear messaging. There was lots of
        evidence from overseas that the virus was not killing the anticipated numbers BUT none of
        this was ever communicated. No-one seemed interested in the impact of the mental health
        issues caused by the messaging regarding the 'deadly' virus and mandating of vaccines, as
        well as the loss associated with the restrictions placed on everybody. We were left to 'get on
        with it' and to this day I am angry, bitter and resentful (all emotions that were generally
        alien to me pre-pandemic) towards the government response and the fact that I had 3 years
        of my life stolen from me.
    •   The payments made to businesses to enable people to keep being paid needed to be more
        rigorously assessed. It has become apparent that many large businesses actually made a
        profit from receiving these payments and clearly did not need this support from the
        government.
    •   It has become clear that people who had opposing views to the government narrative were
        belittled and shut down. Free speech was suppressed and credible sources of information
        ignored. This should never have been allowed to happen in a democratic society and it is
        clear that the governments response would have been much better if broader views from
        proper experts rather than those only funded by the drug companies with self interests had
        been sought. We now know that so called 'misinformtion' was TRUE so this should never be
        allowed to happen again!
    •   The 'safe and effective' message was a lie. The government could not possibly know that this
        was the case and the bodies approving the vaccine are not independent of the drug
        companies that developed the vaccine.
    •   The government did nothing to protect the rights of its citizens to make a free choice about
        whether or not to receive the vaccine. The Nuremberg code and human rights were being
        ignored as this was an experimental drug and yet the government sat by and let the States
        have free reign to do whatever they wanted to do.
    •   My business has never recovered from the gap in me being able to deliver my services (face
        to face training nationally). Pre-pandemic my diary was booked up 6 months in advance with
        work. My turnover has dropped significantly in the last 2 years.
•   My family live overseas and sadly my Dad passed away during the lockdowns. I was unable to
    attend his funeral and this will haunt me for the rest of my life.
