FROM:                                                                14-12-2023



RE : Answer to Call for Submissions for the Covid Inquiry from the Office of
Prime Minister and Cabinet




MY SUBMISSION:

I am anHyear old^^^|woman and I am very concerned about the sudden
changes in our life here in Australia and the rest of the World. Wherever I look
I see problems and people who are worried about the future and are shocked
about the past repressions, violence and insane demands from the
Governments during the last 3 Pandemic years.

I myself                                                                with a
mask which I was forced to wear. I and my husband panicked because of
lockdowns. We experienced anxiety that only vaccinated people were allowed
to enter certain premises or events, and incorrect PCR tests were enforced.

Now we hear from the alternative media, statistics and daily ambulance sirens,
how many people are sick and have been dying suddenly. Helpful medication,
like Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquin and other successful protocols were
prohibited by the authorities to treat the sick. Instead, more vaccinations were
pushed by our Government and the media which resulted in excess deaths.
Even Life Insurance companies indicated excess death! I hear more and more
people regret agreeing to the shots which were pushed by our Government
and the media.

As I read and listened to many researchers and whistleblowers (see list below),
the socalled Pandemic is a political psy-op to depopulate our planet from too
many "useless eaters". For that purpose, the common flu virus was
manipulated into a bio-weapon, and health regulations were ignored.

I ask myself, who are the individuals, responsible for such a dilemma and anti­
human behaviour? And how can we get some sanity back?

If we want to believe that the politicians in our Government are human beings,
like ourselves, they must realize that their actions have been harmful to the
survival of all of us, including themselves. Maybe they were compromised in
one way or another, and are willing to rectify things bevor it is too late?

For this to happen, we must exit the WHO and UN to avoid any possible
unwanted future influences into our own Australian affairs.

Someone gave me a copy of AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL ACTION PLAN FOR
HEALTH SECURITY 2019-2023. It explains a lot and says amongst other things:




There must be a FULL ROYAL COMMISSION to investigate:

   •      Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts
   •      Vaccine mandates
   •      Vaccine injuries
   •      Mask mandates
   •      Lockdowns
   •   Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of
       vaccines to block infection and transmission along with denial of vaccine
       injuries and gaslighting of the injured.
   •   The AHPRA's lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on un deniable
       harm of the vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the
       Medical Profession

Whilst I was looking for answers, I came across reports and videos, published
by wellknown doctors, scientists and other experts, how we people have been
forced into submission, made sick/been killed by forces in our own
Governments. There are reports/videos about their findings on their websites.
The short time frame to send this report did not allow me to search and find
again all these testimonies I have heard/seen, but

Below are some names of these expert authors.

                          Cardiologist,                              Scientist,Dr.
                     Infectious Disease Researcher, Dr.                Financial
   Analyst, Dr.                        | Virus Expert, Prof.^^^H
   Micro- Biologist, Dr.               Osteopath/Chiropractor, Dr.l
              Chemist and Graphine Expert, Dr.                Microbiologist, Dr.
                 Master of Science (Population Health), Dr.
   Medical Professional and Pharm. Drug Expert, Dr.^^^f                  M.D., Dr.
   ^^^MM.D. and Medical Editor, Prof.^^^^^^H Viral
   Immunologist, Dr.                   Osteopathic Physician, Dr.
                 M.D., Researcher, The American Frontline Doctors, Dr.
                 Solicitor,            The Healthranger,|
          Scientist,                      Funeral Director,
   Journalist,

   And many more.

Here are some details about the doctors/experts findings:

Covid 19 injections/mRNA shots are biological and technological weapons.

These shots alter human DNA.

These shots contain various venoms, toxins, e.g. graphine oxide nano- blades
which cut into blood vessels and organs. Graphine is also transmitted to others
in the same area.

And there are self-assembling nano tech micro machines. Nano technical
structures are developing in the blood after the Covid shots.
In the^^H' shots one can find a glowing poisonous substance, called
"Luciferase".

Spike Proteins are produced in the blood by these foreign items and they are
also transmitted to other people, inclusive to non-vaccinated ones.

                                                   etc. found after the Covid
injections.

Too many people are diagnosed with

People die from blood clots after Covid injections. Funeral directors find these
fibrous clots at various places when embalming the bodies.

A Statewide grand jury is investigating now Covid vaccine crimes.
