                Submission to the Commonwealth Government
                        COVID-19 Response Inquiry


This submission is provided by Peter Wilkins PhD who is an Adjunct
Professor at The John Curtin Institute of Public Policy (JCIPP) at Curtin
University. He is a researcher in the fields of evaluation, performance,
accountability and governance in the public and not for profit sectors. He
has nearly forty years’ experience in and around the public sector in
accountability and oversight roles as well as having worked in line and
central agencies.

The submission relates to the Governance term of reference and was
prompted by the statement on the “Scope of inquiry” on the website
stating that the inquiry will also consider how evidence was used or
produced during implementation of interventions “... and ideas to improve
evidence-based pandemic prevention and response practices”.

It is mainly drawn form a piece of work undertaken in 2021 and published
in 2023 as a book chapter. The chapter is titled “The Role of Evaluative
Information in Parliamentary Oversight of the Australian Government’s
Responses to the Pandemic”.

The book titled “Policy Evaluation in the Era of COVID-19” has chapters
addressing issues in other countries that may also provide relevant
information to the current Inquiry. 12

My chapter explored how parliamentary committees have responded to the
challenge of holding Government to account in relation to its responses to
the pandemic and in particular the role of evaluative information. It
focused on the work underway by the Senate Select Committee on
COVID-19.

Evaluative information can come from many sources including
evaluations, performance reporting, and performance auditing and my
chapter emphasised the importance of assessing its quality, including

1 Wilkins, P.(2023). The Role of Evaluative Information in Parliamentary Oversight of the Australian
Government’s Responses to the Pandemic. Chapter in P. Eliadis, I. A. Naidoo, and R. C. Rist (Eds.)
'Evaluation in the Era of Covid-19’. Abingdon, Routledge. https://www.routledge.com/Policy-
Evaluation-in-the-Era-of-COVID-19/Eliadis-Naidoo-Rist/p/book/9781032452968 and
available as Open Access.
2 McGill University is hosting a webinar involving book authors,
see https://www.mcgill.ca/maxbellschool/events/policv-evaluation-era-covid-19 for event information
and registration.
reliability, validity, credibility, legitimacy, functionality, timeliness, and
relevance. The chapter contrasted the role of evaluative information
alongside the role of opinions expressed by stakeholders.

The chapter referred to themes that arose from an analysis of the scrutiny
of the Global Financial Crisis to identify measures which are also relevant
in the current context, including the recognition of context; the need for
clear programme objectives; explicit design principles; and governance.3

The role of evaluations and evaluators could usefully be assessed,
particularly how they contributed information to inform the many
decisions and judgments being made in response to the COVID-19
pandemic. It can have this role alongside contributing to learning and
accountability. In terms of how evidence is produced it could be relevant to
consider the extent and nature of coordination between State, Territory and
the Commonwealth Auditors General to enable a consolidation of their
findings.



Peter Wilkins
12 November 2023




•5
 Wilkins, P., D. Gilchrist and J. Phillimore (2021). Independent review of emergency
economic stimulus measures: Global Financial Crisis and COVID-19. Australian Journal of
Public Administration. 80 12-28. https://doi.org/10.llll/1467-8500.12437
