My name is                 I am                           from                  I am an
extremely healthy woman. I eat well, I exercise regularly, I don’t drink, smoke ortake any
medication. I am a mother of

I would like to express my absolute horror of the handling of the pandemic in 2020. As a
healthy person it was my decision that I wasn’t in a high risk category despite my age. I
knew my body would be strong enough to deal with the virus. As it turned out I got covid
in the January of 2023,1 caught it from one of two double vaccinated people. I was ill with
a cough and a few other symptoms for 2 days, with no lasting effects. Because I never get
flu or barely experience a cold I knew this would be my experience.

For a person like me this was a shocking time. I was fearful of taking a medication that
could have lasting and harmful effects. I was denied entry into cafes, shops and the right
to work. I was denied the right to travel and visit my children. I was denied the right to
spend time with friends and the community. I was treated as a second class citizen.

I wasn’t willing to risk my health with an experimental drug. I felt like I had the choice to
do this but felt like my human rights were denied me.

My^^^^^^^|who is very passionate about health and wellbeing, not in a high risk
category at all, in fact he was in the high risk age group at^to have the vaccine. My^H
was forced to also take an experimental drug because he would no longer have a job. He
had to have 3 vaccines, on the last one he spent the night in the Emergency Clinic at his
local hospital because of chest pains, he was told he he myocarditis markers in his blood
but it was inconclusive. We all experienced a high level of anxiety over his health. We all
experienced high levels of anxiety for several years during this insane time where we were
all denied human rights.

As it turned out we could have basically allowed whoever wanted the vaccine to take it, it
never stopped transmission. I caught it from individuals that were double jabbed and were
infected with covid. We could have just locked down the vulnerable in society like the
elderly and sick. From what I have seen the whole country was shut down unnecessarily,
people suffered unnecessarily, the country suffered unnecessarily.

So in summary the future handling of a pandemic of the scale of covid could have been
handled very differently. Give a vaccine to those who want to take the risk of an
experimental drug. Keep the elderly and sick isolated and allow the rest of the population
to exercise their human right to work, shop, socialise, exercise and live their lives.

I also saw that this was a directive of the World Health Organisation and now realise this
was a terrible decision for Australia to adopt their advice and directives. I would like to see
Australia become independent of the World Health Organisation.

Yours sincerely,
