                  Public submission and supporting evidence
          (to inform recommendations that aim to improve Australia's
                      preparedness for future pandemics)
                                    to the
                         COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                           Australian Government
Dr Lambertus de Graaf, CEO, Geologist
Mr Alan Smith, Major Projects Director and Building Practitioner, Qld
Mr Michael Makeham, Qld Registered Architect
November 2023_v2_abridged version




     "...Queenslanders! If you have a sniffle, a cough or a cold...go straight to the Emergency
                                  Department and get tested..."
          Queensland Govt. Chief Medical Officer - COVID-19 Media Campaign 2020-2022
Published references accessed for this submission



• COVID Mortality in Australia- COVID 19 Deaths that Occurred by 31 Oct 2021, ABS
• COVID Mortality in Australia- COVID 19 Deaths registered until 30 September 2023, ABS
• Centre for Population analysis of Provisional Mortality Statistics and Excess Mortality during the
  COVID-19 Pandemic, 30 March 2022
• 'Statement on the Doherty Institute modelling' Doherty Institute, Vic. 23 August 2021
• Actuaries Institute's COVID-19 Mortality Working Group- 'Latest Analysis of Excess deaths'. January
  2023
• Our World in Data.org/coronavirus, 10 November 2023
• World Health Organisation COVID 19 Dashboard, November 2023
Submitter's contact:
Part A - Public trust in vaccine efficacy flatlined globally once most State
compulsion was unwound at the end of 2021. The impact of State pandemic
coercion and overreach is still playing out. Record Excess deaths in 2023 remain
unexplained c;ovio-i^ vaccine boosters administered per 100 people                                                                       Our World
                                                                                                                                          in Data
              Total number of vaccine booster doses administered, divided by the total population of the country. Booster doses are
              doses administered beyond those prescribed by the original vaccination protocol.

              140                                                                                                                     Chile



              120


              100


                                                                                                                                      Italy
               80
                                                                                                                                      Singapore



               60


                                                                                                                                      United States
               40                                                                                                                     Bangladesh
                                                                                                                                      World

                                                                                                                                      Pakistan
               20                                                                                                                     India
                                                                                                                                      Russia



                    Sep 8. 2021         Mar 31. 2022                 Oct 17. 2022                 May 5. 2023   Nov 10. 2023

              Data source: Official data collated by Our World in Data - Last updated 12 November 2023
              OurWoridlnData.org,'coronavirus | CC BY
Pa rt A- Post pandemic Excess mortality exceeds the pandemic period. Excess
deaths in Australia since mid 2022 appears to be uncorrelated with the first three
waves of COVID-19 variant infection. The Australian Government has yet to provide a
cogent explanation of why . Excess deaths since Q2 2022 must be explained
           Excess mortality: Deaths from all causes compared to average over previous years                                        Our World
                                                                                                                                    in Data
           The percentage difference between the reported number of weekly or monthly deaths in 2020-2023 and the average
           number of deaths in the same period over the years 2015-2019. The reported number might not count all deaths that
           occurred due to incomplete coverage and delays in reporting.




           30%




           20%




           10%

                                                                                                                               Australia



            0%




                 Jan 5, 2020                  Feb 24, 2021 Sep 12, 2021 Mar 31, 2022 Oct 17, 2022               Jul 30, 2023

           Data source: Human Mortality Database (2023); World Mortality Dataset (2023)               OurWorldlnData.org/coronavirus | CC BY
Part A- Many pandemic disease predictions and interventions recommended by
public health officers and research epidemiologists proved to be wrong and/or
excessive. Multiple public health agencies operating within the Federation competed
to issue 'worst case' disease forecasting .This transmitted fear but wasn't effective.

• Australians experienced a multitude of Health Directives and Daily Updates issued by State and
Commonwealth Chief Health Officers (and their political masters) from early 2020 onwards as being
questionable, contradictory and some panic-laden . Many forecasts announced were proven wrong
• Media briefings by Health Ministers and Premiers citing necessary "actions' taken "...out of an abundance of
caution..." were seen as 'code' for more State directives and further harm to social and economic wellbeing
• Australians saw that WHO, (USA)CDC, Commonwealth of Australia and State pandemic planning and health
emergency protocols were ditched or overridden by (at times) shrill 'public health emergency' fear campaigns
followed by the exercise of the coercive powers of the State under the guise of public safety, law and order
• Australians endured zealous over-reach by politicians and senior public servants shielded by (still secret)
public health advice and disease modelling by Doherty, Burnett and others. That modelling has since been
shown to have been flawed or algorithmically biased to predict serious mass disease and hospital overload
Part A- The pandemic response proved that National Cabinet is 'gamed' by State
politicians motivated by the potent messaging opportunities thrown up by a public
health 'crisis'. Federated governance incentivises partisan action by State politicians
who see opportunity to extend their time in public office
• Public belief in the competence and evidence base of epidemic management by senior Public Health
bureaucrats has, in our opinion, been impaired. Does this matter? Probably not.
• Voluntary vaccine uptake will occur where believed to be safe and effective, where the pathological threat is
demonstrably real and where politicians and health officials curb their instincts to flex coercive State powers.




• National cabinet was gamed into a masterful political 'hit job' on the then Prime Minister and Government
of the day. Some State Premiers acted in concert to sabotage the practical usefulness of the National Cabinet.
• Subversion of National Cabinet by the Premiers was contrary to the interests of the nation but proved to be
sound State politics. Prudent preparedness planning should recognise the instincts and motives of State
Premiers.
Part A- Submitter's observations and conclusions on the COVID-19
pandemic in Australia 2020-2022 and implications for preparedness for
future pandemics
•   National cabinet- had no significant effect on the progression of the virus and was perversely dysfunctional
• COVID lethality- the Infection Fatality Rate (IFR) in the general population) globally) was between 0.1% to 0.5% in
most countries. Comparable to an influenza pandemic. There is no proven basis for economies to be mothballed
•   Age profile- the median age of COVID deaths is over 80 years - 50% occurring in Nursing Homes
• Vaccine protection- the experimental vaccines did not prevent infection and transmission. Prior infection conferred
more durable immunity
• Vaccine injuries- the benefit- risk ratio of mRNA vaccination of children and healthy adults is likely negative
• Excess mortality- Australia has since mid 2022, experienced greater Excess death than during the pandemic years.
• Symptoms- obesity was a major risk factor but overall, 95% of all people developed only mild or moderate COVID
infection symptoms
• Treatment- numerous studies showed that early outpatient treatment reduced hospitalization and death
•   Transmission- pre-symptomatic transmission may account for up to 50% of all COVID infections
•   Masks- masks had no influence on infection rates. This was well established before the pandemic
Part A- Submitter's observations and conclusions on the COVID-19
pandemic in Australia 2020-2023

• Lockdowns- lockdowns had no significant effect on the pandemic but had significant impact on society
• Children- unlike Influenza- the risk of severe COVID disease in children is very low
• Schools- the closure of schools had no effect on infection rates in the general population
• PCR testing- PCR and antigen mass testing had no effect on infection rates in the general population
• Contact tracing- manual contact tracing and tracing apps had no effect on infection rates. WHO
recommended against contact tracing in 2019
• Vaccine passports- vaccine passports had no effect on infection rates as vaccination didn't prevent infection
• Virus mutations- coronaviruses mutate frequently. Oricon is highly infectious but 80% less lethal than the
synthetic Wuhan strain
• Sweden- COVID mortality without lockdowns was comparable to a strong influenza season .Median age of
COVID related deaths in Sweden was 84 years
• Influenza- Deaths attributed to Influenza viruses largely disappeared during the COVID 19 pandemic period
• Media- much media commentary and prediction promoted a massive overestimation of COVID lethality
• Virus origin - genetic evidence indicates that the Wuhan strain was a synthetic virus and that infective illness
was a form of toxic reaction to a laboratory manufactured bio- weapon.
