My name is Bernadette Ryan. I hold a Bachelor of Social Work Degree from the UNSW, and a post graduate Diploma in
Communication from Deakin University where I graduated as a Golden Key Alumni. For over 25 years I worked as a Social
Worker, primarily in critical and trauma care in both NSW and ACT Hospitals. During my last position at The Canberra
Hospital, I was also responsible for developing and delivering innovative and immersive workshops and seminars to
medical, nursing and allied health staff in the areas of the patient experience and caring for oneself as a health
professional. I earned myself considerable respect as a competent professional and a strong advocate for my patients and
their families.

I now work as a journalist and have done considerable research and investigation into various aspects of COVID 19 and
both federal and state public health measures.

For additional context I will include that I have been vaccinated for other illnesses and diseases as have my four children
and have never been a subscriber to 'conspiracy theories' or anything which I cannot support with credible and
considerable evidence.

During 2020,1 adhered to the public health measures of social distancing, mask wearing, hand washing and travel bans.
Even though much of that did not make sense, and particularly as I observed the discrepancies which existed between
states. I asked myself how science could be being observed, if each state and various organisations and facilities were not
applying public health measures consistently?

As a Social Worker, informed consent was the foundation of my practice.

Throughout my career I have watched people refuse blood transfusions because of their religious beliefs; elderly people
discharge themselves against medical advice because they wanted to return home (unsafely); and our health system care
for people who abused food, drugs and alcohol and ignored various other lifestyle factors, all of which significantly add to
the burden of disease and the subsequent strain on our health system. Yet, still, we appropriately respect the right of all
Australians to decide for themselves what they can and cannot accept or do.

Our professional conduct as health professionals in this regard is underwritten by the Australian Charter of Health Care
Rights. This charter includes:


Respect- The right to, “Be treated as an individual, and with dignity and respect and to
have my culture, identity, beliefs and choices recognised and respected".


Partnership - The right to "Ask questions and be involved in open and honest communication and to make decisions with
my healthcare provider, to the extent that I choose and am able to include the people that I want in planning and decision­
making".


Information - The right to "Clear information about my condition, the possible benefits and risks of different tests and
treatments, so I can give my informed consent".


Privacy - The right to "Have my personal privacy respected and have information about me and my health kept secure and
confidential".


Give Feedback - The right to "Provide feedback or make a complaint without it affecting the way that I am treated and
have my concerns addressed in a transparent and timely way. And to share my experience and participate to improve the
quality of care and health services".


As both a health professional and health consumer, I have observed and experienced what I consider to be the most
egregious breaches of these health care rights.


In particular with regard to mandatory vaccination.


I am unvaccinated against COVID 19.


The reason for this is that I did my due diligence about my risk profile as well as to the development and regulation of the
available COVID 19 vaccines. As a then healthy woman of 54, who does not drink nor smoke and who exercised regularly I
was also, and remain, slim, free of co morbidities and practice the preventative medicine approach of healthy eating, and
regular supplementation of Vitamins D3, C, Zinc, and other supplements. All of which is supported by considerable medical
evidence and research. Yet none of this 3qa included in the public health messaging, when if even there was a time for it, it
was during a pandemic.
I spent considerable time during 2021 reading the documents available on the TGA and noted with concern that there
were significant gaps in those cohorts who had been included in the trials, such as pregnant and lactating women and
those with autoimmune conditions. (Please see the accompanying documents which I prepared about this).


I also noted that the TGA stated at that time stated that neither the Pfizer nor AstraZeneca products had been tested for
transmission. Something which was later confirmed publicly by Pfizer Executive Small.


During 2021, as I continued to consider my options and those of my family, I also became increasingly aware of the number
of adverse events experienced by those close to me. (Something which continues to this day ). These then included one
close friend who was hospitalised and almost died in rural NSW following his second Pfizer shot, with numerous blood clots
( confirmed by his treating team as vaccine related ); his wife who experienced severe anaphylaxis requiring admission to
hospital; another who still cannot lift his arm properly and which occurred immediately following his Pfizer shot and his
wife who experienced the return of severe and debilitating migraines from which she had been free over ten years;
another young female acquaintance who was one of the first confirmed AstraZeneca deaths; another who started
collapsing with no explanation and more.


I was also observing the number of vaccinated people not only acquiring COVID 19 but becoming quite sick with it. So, the
evidence did not appear compelling enough to put myself at risk, particularly when it became clear (and has been
subsequently clearly observed) that the vaccines did not in fact prevent infection nor transmission.


I was also extremely concerned (if not horrified) that our country also acquiesced via fear, to attach income, livelihood,
employment, social and family activities, travel, social acceptance, ostracization and almost dehumanisation to an
individual's choice to remain unvaccinated.


All in flagrant disregard, once again for another health document which stipulates that vaccination should not occur in an
environment of coercion.


Quote from the,           n Imm        jo         ook


"Criteria for valid consent


For consent to be legally valid, the following elements must be present:


It must be given by a person with legal capacity, and of sufficient intellectual capacity to understand the implications of
receiving a vaccine.


It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation.


It must cover the specific procedure that is to be performed.


It can only be given after the potential risks and benefits of the relevant vaccine, the risks of not having it, and any
alternative options have been explained to the person.


The person must have the opportunity to seek more details or explanations about the vaccine or its administration."


I have no words to describe what appears to have been the complete abandonment of medical ethics and the rigorous
application of science in this country, particularly in light of the long-dispelled myth (as it was never confirmed with any
degree of robust science) that having one of these vaccines would protect the wider community. (Please see the attached
evidence regarding vaccine mandates in my article and research). Therefore, negating the argument that our previously
adhered to health charter and immunisation handbook could be overridden by the public good.


I have sent freedom of information requests to each state and territory regarding both the number of health employees
unable to work due to vaccine mandates (therefore placing additional stress on our health responses when the demand is
so high); as well as requesting evidence to support the application of these mandates. The responses sadly vindicated a
significant lack of justification for the same, despite there STILL being thousands of skilled health and other workers, unable
to work due to their vaccine status.


Again, please see the attached appendices for evidence of same, and this article I published here:
https://creativedestructionmedia.com/analysis/2023/01/22/the-vaccine-mandates-an-australian-investigation/ as well as
quotes from both ATAGI and the TGA confirming that neither made any recommendations for general vaccine mandates.


I did not contract COVID 19 until Feb 2022.1 treated myself at home for what was an extremely mild infection


(I have had worse colds), with protocols developed by highly qualified health professionals. I have subsequently cared for
numerous family members with COVID over the last 20 months (with the same protocols) and have not been re infected.
They too had mild infections and recovered well, unvaccinated.


I am not only well,
            I can provide proof of this if required. Something consistent with the previously well-established medical
understanding of natural immunity.


Personally, the last few years have been the most terrifying I have ever experienced.


To be an educated, otherwise law abiding and respected person and health professional for my entire life, who was left
feeling terrified to live in my own country, simply because I did my due diligence is something I could never have imagined.
To live in a country polarised by a health choice is not our Australia. According to our charter of health care rights, no one
should even know my status!


And again, to be clear, as the evidence in front of us has confirmed, vaccination was not necessary for all Australians. And it
did not stop the ongoing wide infection rate that has ensued. One must wonder what it may have looked like if people
were given access to the early treatments that myself and family used and who now appear to have good and robust
natural immunity.


And, leaving aside the significance of the ever-increasing issues regarding adverse events including death and therefore,
the safety of these products which no one could ever have guaranteed under their novel proprietary development and new
delivery methods, the widespread mandating of these products especially to those at low risk of severe illness and death, I
do believe, will be recorded as the greatest medical catastrophe in history.


Particularly when there were numerous highly qualified voices warning of the very set of circumstances we now find
ourselves in; ongoing variants and repeated infections; excess mortality rates independent of COVID 19 infections;
insufficient health personnel to meet the demands of a highly unwell population and the growing awareness that the side
effects of these products, given their novelty, may continue to declare themselves for decades to come.


I hope that there is never again any repeat of the forceful injection or application of any medical procedure in this manner,
upon Australians. None of us deserve to live in fear of that.


So, to whomever is reading this submission, know that your decisions here should not be driven by saving face, agreeing
with a narrative or feeling fearful of your own employment if you dare to speak up or listen to the evidence presented here
objectively.


If we do not have the courage to confront what may indeed be a litany of uncomfortable and frightening truths, your
health, and that of your children and family, are ultimately at stake. We must have the courage to examine without bias or
censorship, ALL the evidence and the views and experiences of all Australians. Especially those very qualified to give it.


We need those who can think critically.


To this end, we must never again restrain, gag or censor those medical, scientific or other professionals, including
journalists, from sharing their evidence or concerns so that true and rigorous scientific debate can occur.


We should also remove from these debates those with clear conflicting interests which sadly now is a wide net and
includes those with ties to organisations who receive corporate or government funding, those with ties to industries which
benefit from the recommended public health measures, those with political ties and those whose employment might be
compromised by the expression of views and data contrary to the public health response of the day.


Good science cannot flourish in this milieu.


Thank You.
