Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


My name is Hayley L. I am a Social Worker in private practice (self-employed) and therefore
hold a role in which I would have been stood down from a role should I have been an
employed allied health position. I also have numerous family members in Education®


Legislation needs to be enacted that NO NEW medications, vaccines or alike should EVER
be mandated as there is NO ability to test of foresee the long-term outcomes of such
measures. No one should ever be subject to this type of medical experimentation.
This enquiry needs to forcefully recommend a Royal Commission into COVID. It is blatantly
evident that corruption, fraud and negligence have been rampant themes and full and
criminal accountability needs to be explored.
New Zealand data has now been released and while of course they are holding the wrong
person accountable (the person who leaked the truth) I believe this will shift in time and
everyone now has the weight of deciding upon which side of history they are going to sit.
https://l.facebook.com/l.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fstkirsch%2Fstatus%2F173
2807641787756894%3Ffbclid%3DlwAR0H525KbJeoNO5bus5Ov0DUnVSD0AWhN87DGQ
GEiGlb-FsPu4CnkBepyw0%26mibextid%3DxfxF2i&h=AT01 ptEX81 PA IvXSrotTiGO-
C45 afNV naGbeSX tt65aOmuw1kuOaxYdAoQI4EGOYb6MIuXWOuDkhfUjz7NTp4 R-
UUP5gusfCBU6sfMMtJPmLYxblvV2A0KaqArnlmk


mmhas been speaking out and sharing data for a long time now.
https://rumble.com/DrJohnCampbell
              | also provides very clear data - David E. Martin talk in the 3rd
International Covid Summit | European Union May 2023
https://www.youtube.com/watch ?v=mfLycFHBsro
At about 10 mins it states that the published science that Corona Virus escapes vaccination
due to mutation. Vaccines are therefore NOT effective.
To ignore this information, is to be complicit and corrupt yourself.


We need to ensure principles of accountability and due diligence are instilled in our new
systems to come. Politicians and Health professionals initiated knee-jerk decisions, that
were not researched (even as a lay person I was able to identify that the COVID injections
were not effective nor successful even during animal trials - our health officials should have
been able to identify this also - I fear they did not even look) and enforced experimental
medical procedures upon people without due care, ignoring principles of human rights and
totally overlooking effective and available (and considerably more affordable medications,
with long term health effects known). The mandates were illegal, and we should never be
able to enact such a power ever again. Vaccines have never been effective with regard to
viruses due to their capacity to mutate and I fear that our forced vaccination during active
viral circulation caused more harm and more viral mutation.




                                                                                                 1
The degree of misinformation circulated by Government systems, APRHAand the news has
been alarming. If influencers have to declare their financial interests in their posts and
material, news and even Government outlets should be the same.
At the very least ALL MEDIA/NEWS OUTLETS MUST declare any financial (or other
incentive) links to the information they are sharing (e.g. paid sponsorship etc.).


There is also no denying the issues surrounding excess deaths across the world^^^^|
           explains and highlights these very well, including using current Australian data.
Ignoring this, and the politicians that denied an enquiry into this are negligent, not acting in
the interest of citizens and have been co-opted into being complicit and corrupt in this
devastating process.


Enquiries about this issue go beyond an enquiry. This issue is complex, multi-layered and
multi-faceted, criminal and corrupt in nature and requires a Royal Commission to address.
There is no reasonable alternative for this enquiry other than to recommend this outcome. It
seems the only way that sufficient diligence, depth of enquiry and accountable outcomes will
be reached to hopefully ensure we NEVER see such dictatory actions and blatant human
rights breaches as only the tip of the iceberg of what needs to be investigated and the
population protected from in future.


Let me reiterate, there is no other reasonable outcome for this enquiry other than to support
and recommend, in fact insist, that a Royal Commission into COVID take place.


I hope that you as a panel choose the right side of history for the sake of our citizens,
children and grandchildren. The sake of our systems which are in dire risk of collapsing, our
health system, our education system and our policing system. We need to respond to these
employees with care, respect and sensitivity, as while some would have opted for the
vaccine, others have been coerced and many now medically harmed and failing to get the
attention, validation, support and care that they need at this time, not to mention all of those
who have died unnecessarily. My heart goes out to the families of these victims as yours
should too. They should not be forgotten and your response should ensure our community is
not ever inflicted again in this way.
I’ll end by saying, as humans we have an incredible immune system. We need to have some
faith, and for people to have the choice to opt for this natural option. People can opt for
medical intervention should they wish, but in this instance it was not given with informed
consent in any form. We now have a mass population with compromised immunity as a
result of this medical experiment and the long term likely impacts are alarming for all of our
systems to need to respond to. Choice is imperative and you have some big and influential
choices to make in your enquiry. I hope you all for the right thing.... It may feel challenging
initially with where some of you have come from, but I assure you, the truth and an ethical
approach now is what our Country needs from you.
Hayley L, Social Worker of 20+ years, mother to be soon; relying on you to make the right
decisions.


                                                                                                   2
