    1. To whom it may concern
    1. By way of introduction, I write on behalf of our well educated family of|consisting of|



        We suffered unfair discrimination and gross abuse of our human right to bodily integrity
        by being mandated to take the improperly tested covid 19 vaccines against our better
        judgement or else lose our jobs. We chose the latter option. This egregious overreach of
        the Commonwealth Government was enabled by its creation of the National Cabinet
        which then allowed States and Territories to tyrannize their subjects. This must NEVER
        be repeated in a free, democratic Australia !
May I say that en large, the Australian population do not want or respect this white washed, half
baked covid inquiry. After the personal, psychological and economically devastating
Government response to, and handling of the pandemic, we, the Australian people, demand
and deserve nothing less than a full, independent Royal Commission. Putting the “foxes” in
charge as the so called independent arbiters of what happened in the “henhouse” during covid
is simply ludicrous and insulting.
Australians deserve an in depth investigation into:
     - Corrupt vaccine procurement and the secret contracts the Federal government used
        taxpayers money to fund
     -   harmful mask mandates, devastating ineffective, inhumane lockdowns and vaccine
        mandates which breached human rights
     - official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block
        infection and transmission
     - Vaccine injuries and deaths hidden by the TGA
     - Media censorship of uncomfortable truths
     - Silencing of Drs regarding potential dangerous vaccine side effects
     - the role of the corrupt AHPRA, the TGA and ATAGI in the censorship of Drs
     - the maligning and shut down of safe, cheap and effective early treatment options which
        could have saved hundreds of lives
     - the role of the TGA and their failure of duty of care to Australians in not properly
        investigating the proclaimed efficacy and safety of this, now widely known and
        recognised, gene technology
     - the poor treatment by the government of vaccine victims, ordinary people just trying to
        do the “right thing”.
        This question begs asking: “Why did the Australian Government deviate from and
        completely ignore all the age long established protocols to deal with pandemics and
        favour the advice of the corrupt WHO, consisting of unelected bureaucrats? Surely each
        individual country is better placed to deal with its own unique health matters?
        This foolish strategy led the country down a disastrous path of economic and personal
        ruin. The Government would have done better to follow the wise advice laid out in the
        Great Barrington Declaration.
