COVID-19 Response Inquiry submission. Dr. C. Bryce 15.12.2023
I am a 71 year old retired primary health care practitioner with over 40 years of clinical experience
in general practice. I have worked group and solo practices in Melbourne, Sydney and regional
areas during those years. Prior to my tertiary studies I worked in the public service, private
companies and heavy industry factories. I have wide life experience and practised evidence based
high quality health care with special interests in clinical neurology, especially of the
musculoskeletal system, and ergonomics.

INTRODUCTION - My submission is in point form.

The expert panel needs to know that the most important fact for them to analyse in immense depth
and from multiple aspects is this.

The governmental and bureaucratic response, both Federal and State, to the Covid crisis was
incompetent, unethical, a long running disaster of monsterous proportions that in many aspects must
be considered criminal. Apart from the massacres of the original precolonial peoples of Australia
this is the most serious and catastrophic issue that has ever affected our tiny nation in its recorded
history.

This inquiry must treat this matter with the rigour required for such a serious national disaster.

The Key issues the panel must examine in detail for the common good of all Australians in future.

1. Independent experts without conflicts of interest must be the only source of advice in
planning for future response measures during a pandemic, and assessing post-pandemic
response data.

2. Australia’s sovereignty must be maintained and no external international organization should
be allowed any measure of control over our country’s response to a pandemic; especially not the
WHO. There is ample evidence that it is a corrupt, non-democratic bureaucracy and powerful
interests have captured the World Health Organisation's administration.

3. All human rights must be respected in any national pandemic response. Australia urgently
needs a Bill of Rights and Responsibilities to protect these.

4. All patient rights to bodily autonomy and informed consent must absolutely be respected
and legally and practically enforced. After questioning many patients who received the covid jabs
I can state categorically that none were given free clear fully informed consent about the procedure.
I personally was told to get the shots by medical practitioners and a specialist who did not give me
fully informed consent nor took any history about my risk factors, which I had to these drugs.
No government bureaucrat has any right to tell any person what medical procedure they
should be forced to have.

5. No draconian measures should be allowed under any circumstances unless there is absolute
and totally reliable independent transparent scientific evidence for the necessity to act in such a
manner. Any measures must be specific, limited in scope, limited in duration, the effects thoroughly
documented and re-evaluated at the termination of their brief enforcement - ideally on a weekly
basis and not a longer period.

6. All Health Departments and attached administrations must function independently and
transparently. The Federal Health bureaucrats in TGA, AHPRA and ATAGI have undergone
regulatory capture by corporations and have conflicts of interest. They urgently must cease to exist
pronto, and new independent and totally transparent public administrators appointed to their
previous duties.

7. All censorship in any form of media or against any individual must be made criminal.
Freedom of speech must be codified in a Bill of Rights and Responsibilities.
The Federal government put in place a Pandemic Media Support mechanism that allowed all
mainstream media companies to be exempt from their taxation obligations for the duration of the
declared pandemic. It was alleged at the time by skilled media analysts that the Federal government
and major media companies effectively entered into a censorship cartel. This meant that the media
only reported exactly what the government, health administrators and drug companies wanted and
any expert criticism by qualified health professionals especially dissenting medical experts was
censored; and worse, those dissenters were then pursued by regulators to totally destroy their
reputations, careers and livelihoods. This was despicable.

8. All corporations, businesses, experts or any other entities providing goods and services to
any public authority of any government must be held liable for the quality, efficacy and safety
of their goods and services with absolutely no exemptions.

The Head of the Therapeutic Goods Administration Adjunct Professo^^^^^^^^ stated publicly
during the covid crisis that the contract between the Australian Federal Government and the^^^|
corporation was “commercial in confidence.” Added to this the drug companies providing the
mRNA experimental drugs and other novel drugs (incorrectly named Covid vaccines) were given
exemption from liability for any damages caused by their products. This is totally unacceptable
with any product or service, especially in healthcare.

There is ample evidence now that these drugs did not prevent the disease or prevent the
transmission of it. They were a failure as vaccines. They were not safe and effective either.

This produced a criminal situation where the drug companies were permitted to sell novel
experimental medical pharmaceutical products with no satisfactory rigorous independent long term
studies of efficacy or safety of these, their products. Even now at this time, December 2023, such
industry standard testing has still not been done over the scientifically accepted 5 and 10 year
durations.

9. No government or persons acting as agents for the government in our democracy should
have the right or power to forcefully coerce any person, group of people, company or
organization to inflict any medical procedure on any individual against that persons will.

Hundreds of Thousands of Australians were coerced into receiving these dangerous and
ineffective drugs. Many suffered injuries that are permanent and disabling. Many died. None of
these factors were responsibly or accurately documented by health officials or the medical
profession then or now. The data is now coming out by independent researchers and commentators.
Government data now shows we have Australians experiencing alarming excess death rates that no
authority will investigate. This is outrageous.
Many people who refused the coercion were made outcasts from the families and friends, lost their
jobs, and even lost their homes. I have heard of many such instances.
My wife and I still have at this time family members who will not talk to us because we refused for
legitimate reasons to take the covid jabs. Most of our family are still disinterested to sensibly
discuss the current facts of the matter. We hear this of many families.
10. The totally unscientific, unnecessary and unfounded response measures to the covid crisis
by Australian Governments have destroyed and/or damaged families, marriages,
communities, social groups, workplaces, work forces, and the effects continue on. The whole
population has been damaged and negatively affected in many ways whether they are aware of it or
not.
The total insanity of the government responses was a pantomime idiocy that exploited the trust of
well meaning, decent, innocent Australians who did their best to be kind caring and responsible
citizens. What has happened to the Australian public is totally reprehensible and nothing
more than an expression of pure evil.
So you may well consider I am being unreasonable. Well how about this? The medical authorities
said we could go to Bunnings, Dan Murphys and supermarkets but couldn’t seeing dying relatives
who were going to die irrespective of the infection, and we couldn’t go outside to national parks and
beaches where there was no risk of infection. We had social distancing in airports and then went on
planes sitting next to each other. When people peacefully protested in Melbourne against draconian
measures they were fired on by the police with rubber bullets and women were beaten up.

Medical experts (the Cochrane Collaboration ) pointed out that masks were useless and unscientific
and then the scientists who determined this reportedly lost their jobs for telling the truth.
Prior to the pandemic it was reported that there was sound evidence lockdowns were unnecessary,
unproductive and severely damaging to individuals and society, but they went ahead.

11. All and everyone of the experts and authorities responsible for this total national mayhem
must be legally held to account as soon as possible. Australia must have Nuremberg style
court cases immediately.

IN CONCLUSION

12. The only positive from all of this covid crisis is that educated, informed and aware Australians
are now totally distrustful of all government, bureaucratic, judicial, police, main stream media,
authorities and medical experts. That is a healthy response based on the disastrous performances
these multiple persons and agencies during the covid crisis.

Finally I hope your expert panel of three gets to publish the truth in detail. I hope your inquiry is not
a cover-up and sham by powerful interests. Even with your most honourable and best efforts this
inquiry will need to be so enormous the failure seems most likely. Why? Because of the following.

Australia needs an independent judicial Royal Commission with immense powers to examine
mountains of evidence and large numbers of experts from Australia and overseas. It needs to
rigorously pursue every area of consequence in the covid crisis including all the following:-
All health issues, social consequences, financial and employment damage to individuals,
national economic costs and damages, legal failures, regulatory failures, administrative
failures, policing overreach and illegal actions, public and corporate corruption and the
consequences of all these issues now and into the long term future.

Your inquiry limiting submissions to 3 pages, with a time limit just before Christmas and with
limited publicity to participate is comprehensively insufficient for such a serious National disaster.
I can forward you references for all my serious allegations.

Dr. C. Bryce, with the agreement of my wife,


Signed electronically 15.12.2023 by Dr. C. Bryce
