                                                                                                STONNINGTON




22 December 2023
via email: COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.gov.au

Dear Ms Kruk AO


Re: COVID-19 Response Inquiry - City of Stonnington Submission

The City of Stonnington welcomes the opportunity to provide a submission to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry (the inquiry). The information provided seeks to address key elements of the
Terms of Reference, specifically, key health response measures and supports and support for
industry and businesses.

The City of Stonnington

The City of Stonnington (Stonnington) is located in Melbourne’s inner south-east, alongside the
Yarra River, covering an area of 25.63 square kilometres. Stonnington is close to the centre of
Melbourne and takes in the suburbs of Armadale, Kooyong, Malvern, Malvern East, Prahran,
Toorak and parts of Glen Iris, South Yarra and Windsor.

Stonnington’s Estimated Resident Population for 2022 is 106,418, with a population density of
4,151 persons per square km. This is a decrease from -121,000 estimated residents at 30 June
2020.

Stonnington has a culturally and economically diverse population. The housing stock ranges from
some of Melbourne’s finest mansions to large blocks of public housing, an indication of the
community’s contrasting lifestyles, needs and expectations. Just under one-quarter of the
community speaks a language other than English at home. Just under one-third of the community
was born overseas. Stonnington has 4,012 residents who require assistance with core activities
due to a long-term health condition, a disability, or old age, and one in 10 residents act in the role
of unpaid carer for a person requiring assistance.

The COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted Stonnington’s local services and economy, with
Melbourne’s lockdown periods accounting for 131 days of the 2020-21 financial year and 120 days
of the 2021-22 financial year. Stonington Council invested approximately $5 million in relief for
residents and business in 2019-20, and over $11 million in each of 2020-21 and 2021-22. This
included fee and registration waivers, grants and refunds for businesses, an innovative outdoor
dining program, waiving fees in some of our car parks, mental health programs, assisting sporting
clubs and local groups to adapt, helping owners’ corporations ensure high rise accommodation
buildings were safe for residents, providing food and support packages to the most vulnerable
members of our community and maintaining crucial programs like early education and maternal
child health during lockdown.

Key health response measures and Governance (roles and responsibilities of Local Government)

Stonnington made a significant contribution to support our community with key health measures
and public messaging assistance. Stonnington actively identified and closed gaps in areas where
signage, communication, and funding from State and Federal Government were insufficient.

   1.     Vaccination Centres provided from within Council funding.
          • Council buildings were rapidly established as mass vaccination and testing centres,
              demonstrating our commitment to public health and the well-being of neighbouring
              Councils and communities. These buildings later transitioned into GP respiratory
              care clinics to provide care for residents and alleviate the burden on hospitals and
              doctors, contributing to a more comprehensive healthcare response during the
              pandemic. However, the provision of this service came at a cost to Council; while
              the Federal Government partnered with Star Health to deliver health services,
              Stonnington funded many operational costs, for example the heating and cooling of
              the facility.
          • It is proposed going forward that more clarity and transparency over funding
              arrangements is provided to local Government groups who agree to host such
              facilities during pandemic events.
   2.     Cleaning Packs and Education for Rooming Houses
          • Council provided cleaning packs (buckets, gloves, chlorine, face masks) and
              education to rooming houses, complete with checks in multiple languages. Over
              sixty homes were visited individually with a door knock to ensure all residents were
              up to date with pandemic information in their preferred language and were provided
              with Council direct contact information for more help if required.
   3.     Extended Support for Food Businesses
          • Our support extended to assisting food businesses in reopening and closing safely,
              offering guidance on hygiene and safety measures and physical visits assisting with
              ‘how to measure’ density quotients as well as provision of connections to mental
              health services for many business owners who were struggling.
   4.     Council COVID Hotline for Unanswered Inquiries
          • Understanding the importance of accessible support, we established a dedicated
              local hotline for inquiries that couldn't be addressed via the COVID hotline.
   5.     Education to Owner Corporations (multi-level dwellings were overlooked).
          • Stonnington provided proactive engagement including education to State-wide
              Strata corporations, emphasising community safety, education, tips, and awareness
              for common/shared spaces in these types of dwellings.
          • It is critical in future pandemic events that multi-level dwellings are not overlooked in
              outreach.
   6.     Simplifying Legislation into Checklists
          • Recognising the need for clarity, we simplified legislation into practical checklists for
              managing common areas and food and health industry businesses. Checklists for
              shutting down, reopening with food and hygiene safety in mind to avoid further
              burdening the health care system with potential foodborne outbreaks.
          • Clear and straightforward communication was found to be better for our community
              in terms of understanding Federal and State Government direction.
Support for industry and businesses

Two key issues impacted Stonnington’s ability to provide support for our industry and businesses.

   1. Public health messaging undermining support for service-based industries that rely on foot
      traffic.
           • Much of our key industry relies on foot traffic - retail trade is the largest industry by
               employment in Stonnington, representing almost 20% of jobs (in 2023). Around
               10% of jobs are in accommodation and food services.
           • It is proposed that a more considered approach to public messaging is required in
               response to future pandemics, both throughout and post the pandemic event.
               Businesses in the service industry in Stonnington experienced significant
               disadvantages due to the changing and inconsistent messaging from State and
               Federal Governments, and the resultant fearmongering reduced foot traffic in
               shopping precincts. The impact of this messaging on customers worked against
               financial and other support provided by Stonnington Council to businesses.
   2. Insufficient sector-specific support.
           • There were several successful COVID-19 business support initiatives provided by
               Stonnington Council and spearheaded by State and Federal Governments.
           • However, proactive measures could be taken to develop and provide tailored
               pandemic responses for each sector in the future. Night-time economy businesses
               are a key example of this. These businesses were severely affected, particularly
               during lockdowns due to density limits, working from home directions and the
               staged reopening after lockdowns. Grouping these businesses with other dissimilar
               sectors resulted in staged reopening rules that were not fit-for-purpose for many
               businesses in Stonnington which, with more tailored support, could provide an
               important cultural and economic boost to the area.

It is appropriate that a whole-of-government approach was taken to address the wide-ranging
impacts of COVID-19 across various sectors, and that localised and specific, culturally appropriate
services are delivered to communities. Victoria was particularly affected due to the extended length
of COVID-19 lockdowns, and Stonnington continues to face and address the financial, community
and workplace impacts of the pandemic. Consideration of how response measures undertaken by
Local Governments can be resourced in the event of future pandemics is welcomed by
Stonnington.




Yours sincerely




Dale Dickson
Chief Executive Officer
