Federal Government COVID 19 enquiry Dec 2023

Firstly, let me state that the limited time allowed for submissions plus the restricted terms of reference
make this a pointless exercise and I'm sure the findings have already been determined as with the sham
Victorian enquiry into the Covid-19 Hotel Quarantine debacle.

Interesting how all the Premiers involved in the draconian lockdowns and forced incarceration are all
suddenly resigning. How convenient.

I am a general practitioner who has lived and worked in full time practice in ^^^^^^|for the pastH
years. Before that I didjyears in hospital training mainly as a medical registrar includingjyears at
                                    terms in General Medicine, Haematology, Cardiology and Plastic
Surgery. Thenfyears at               and                  Hospitals with terms in General Medicine,
Neurology, Haematology and Oncology and finally a year in ^^^|doing Obstets and Gynae before
returning to Australia to start General Practice

In all my^Jyears in GP and before I have never had a complaint against me until I did the unthinkable
and in a PRIVATE email to one of your number expressed a counter view about the Covid-19 so-called
vaccination that they were "safe and effective". As a result of my indiscretion and temerity to question
such dogma I was reported to the AHPRA and had to explain myself for holding such dangerous views.

Well, I was under the obviously false impression that I lived in a democracy where one could express a
view without fear or favor, especially to those people who you expect to be used to critical analysis.

When I tell this story to my colleagues they can't believe what happened. Communist China here we
come. By the way, the complaint was thrown out and I wait for an apology. Everything I said at the time
has been proven to be true. Natural immunity has been shown to be superior to vaccine immunity. The
so-called vaccines did not prevent transmission and benefits were short term at best and associated
with significant morbidity and death.

Masks are completely useless (see^^^^^Hreport). Millions of DNA fragments have been found in the
vaccines and who knows what that means. The Swedes have shown that without a reverse transcriptase
the mRNA can enter the cell nucleus in an invitro study. Now we have been informed that the modified
mRNA makes the spike protein via cellular Ribosomes only 90% of the time and 'junk' proteins for the
remaining 10%. Again no one knows the long term effects of these aberrant proteins on the immune
system.

We have opened a Pandora's box and no one knows the outcome. All we do know from the US VAERS
and WA adverse events register (just released) that the excess deaths all around the globe are about
18% above the baseline since the Covid vaccination program started. Nobody has been able to explain
this despite a huge elephant in the room with Covid-19 vaccine tattooed over its body.

The level of secrecy and intimidation of anyone who questioned the 'safe and effective' dogma is
amazing. Thank goodness for our brave senators Rennick and Roberts who will not be intimidated. The
replies I received implied that I couldn't possibly understand the data or information as presented
presumably because of my age^^ What I do understand is the difference between Absolute and
Relative risk and if this information was given to the public far fewer people including myself would not
have rolled up their sleeves.
I had 2 Astra Zeneca shots and subsequently developed                                       that was
removed in|           at    |after being flown there from         by the Flying Doctor. They also found I
had                              I am now on                          I had no risk factors for^^^^^H
and had never experienced         anywhere before. I'm lucky to be alive.

I now tell all my patients of the risks and benefits of these experimental gene modified treatments (I'm
sure you are aware of the Nobel Prize going to|                  and                 for their discoveries
on ho         e mRNA with base modificatio         . *velop effective COVID-19 vaccines).

However you look at it this is gene therapy that bypassed the regulators in Australia because the
mRNA modification was made before the product entered Australia. How convenient. It will be
interesting to see how they get around that one when Moderna opens its mRNA lab in Victoria. Horne
of the free.

Today I read that the former Italian health minister has been charged with murder for suppressing
information about the dangers of the vaccines and mandating them for various professions.)




There's a lot more I could say. I believe this is the greatest assault on individual freedom since the
                We were sold a pup by the company with the largest corporate fine in history via the
False Claims Act in the US. The FDA and TGA have been asleep at the wheel and believed the^^H
^■without applying due diligence to their claims.

Who knows how many have died as a result of these products. I will certainly never have another one.
I guess you've seen the Cleveland Clinic data, the WA data and the NSW Health data before they
stopped reporting it that the more shots you have the more likely you are to contract Covid. What a
bonus for the drug companies as they push their dangerous unproven treatments. But we were
banned from using a Nobel prize winning drug as an initial treatment so the big drug companies could
get emergency authorization approved.

Now we have the AG of Texas suing^^^for misleading information regarding efficacy. Relative risk
93% vs Absolute risk <1%. This will be good to watch as^^|will be compelh      ow their data
and what they knew and when. Can’t wait.

I wish you all well
