                                                                                                                                              Aboriginal
                                                                                                                                               Health Council
                                                                                                                                               of Western Australia


              Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel


                                                                                  14 December 2023


AHCWA is the peak body for 23 Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services (ACCHS) in Western Australia
(WA). WA ACCHS' are located across geographically diverse metropolitan, regional, and remote locations. They
deliver the most effective model of comprehensive primary health care for Aboriginal people12and are in a unique
position to identify and respond to the local, cultural, and health needs of Aboriginal people and their communities.

This submission responds to three of the Inquiry's terms of reference; governance, key health response measures,
and mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations. AHCWA, with its Members,
is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of the COVID-19 response from the perspective of the WA ACCHS
Sector. The information and recommendations within this submission draw from that work.

A Summary of AHCWA Members' Experience of the COVID-19 Pandemic

Pi^Abonaina^n^^iTe^StraiUslandeNe^esponse to the COVID-19 pandemic has been described as I
                                             H Aboriginal people experienced considerably lower infection rates
than non-lndigenous people in the early stages of the pandemic, averting hospitalisations and deaths3. The National
Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation (NACCHO), Aboriginal Community Controlled Health
Organisations (ACCHOs), and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Advisory Group on COVID-19, established
by the Commonwealth Government in March 2020, were central to providing this leadership.

Recommendation 1: Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leadership must be authentically embedded in all
Government-led emergency health responses.

The WA and Commonwealth Governments both took specific steps to protect remote Aboriginal communities in the
early pandemic, with First Nations people appropriately recognised as a priority population. The Commonwealth’s
Biosecurity Determination, which restricted travel into the Kimberley, parts of the East Pilbara, and the Shire of
Ngaanyatjarraku, successfully limited transmission of COVID-19 into these regions and was supported by ACCHS
as a key protection measure at the time. These measures did, however, result in significant increases in workload
for ACCHS, particularly due to their heavy reliance on fly-in-fly-out (FIFO) staff, including from overseas.

In March 2020, there was an initial scramble to access very limited supplies of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).
A very small number of masks were made available by the Commonwealth through the WA Primary Health Network
(WAPHA), however, it was clear that stores were inadequate to support safe service delivery at the outset of the
pandemic. AHCWA and its Members subsequently reached out to philanthropic partners to help plug this shortfall.
The lack of available PPE to primary care was a key early failure of the early pandemic response.

Recommendation 2: A rapid supply of quality PPE from the Commonwealth must be readily accessible to
primary care from the very start of an epidemic or pandemic response.

Despite the challenges, WA ACCHS successfully maintained routine primary care services, in addition to the work
of the pandemic. Data from the latest Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) report shows that there was
no decline in WA ACCHS delivery measures over the four 12-month reporting periods between 2018 and 20224. In
fact, there was a rise of 15% in both “episodes of care” and “client numbers” in 2021-2022, likely reflecting the
significant additional role played by ACCHS in administering COVID-19 vaccines and providing ambulatory care for
cases. The introduction of a range of new Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items to support and encourage the
use of telehealth in March 2020 was certainly one of the major systems benefits to occur due to COVID-19. Telehealth
was not new to the WA ACCHS Sector with many remote and regional ACCHS already moving to a telehealth model
for hospital specialist consultations before the pandemic. However, these efforts had been frustrated by poor



throughout this submission, AHCWA uses the term ‘Aboriginal’ to respectfully refer to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people across WA.
2Stanley F, Langton M, Ward J, McAullay D, Fades S. Australian First Nations response to the pandemic: A dramatic reversal of the ‘gap’. J Paediatr Child Health. 2021 Dec;57(12):1853-6.
3Eades S, Fades F, McAullay D, Nelson L, Phelan P, Stanley F. Australia’s First Nations' response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Lancet. 2020 Jul;396(10246):237-8.
Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. 2023 [cited 2023 Nov 23]. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander specific primary health care: results from the
OSR and nKPI collections, Data. Available from: https://wvwv.aihw.gov.au/reports/first-nations-people/indigenous-primary-health-care-results-osr-nkpi/data
                                                    The Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia advocates on behalf of
                                              23 Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services in Western Australia to ensure that
                                              the health and wellbeing needs of Aboriginal communities are represented at all levels.
                                                 Copyright ©Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia 2023
                                                                         Page 1 of 3
                                                                                                           Aboriginal
                                                                                                           Health Council
                                                                                                           of Western Australia


connectivity and restrictive MBS rebates. AHCWA had been advocating for years for improved access to telehealth,
and COVID-19 finally made this possible and financially viable.

Recommendation 3: MBS telehealth items must be here to stay to enable access to primary and specialist
care for Aboriginal people throughout WA. Items for patient-end support (for GP and specialist telehealth
consultations), and initial specialist telehealth consultation (particularly for MM2-7 locations) must be
available.

Communication and transparency are paramount in any emergency response. While the Commonwealth and state
shared official responsibility for public communication during COVID-19, it was clear to ACCHS that a community-
driven, localised approach would be necessary to reach Aboriginal communities. The ACCHS Sector's ability to
respond rapidly to this need was one of the great success stories of the pandemic. AHCWA and its Members
developed posters, Facebook posts, radio promotions, video clips and television advertisements. While content was
based on official government requirements, the messages themselves were much more engaging and community-
focused emphasising cultural values and personalised through the use of local imagery, familiar voices and
translation where appropriate. Many of these communication resources were equally popular with the non-Aboriginal
community, with ACCHS-developed posters displayed at road houses and public spaces across the state. ACCHS
also played an important role in countering misinformation, particularly around vaccination. While communication to
primary care through the Commonwealth's COVID-19 Primary Care Response was regular and helpful in supporting
services to navigate the COVID-19 landscape, the Commonwealth failed to recognise the vital role ACCHS play in
disseminating important COVID-19 information in effective and trustworthy ways.

Recommendation 4: The ACCHS Sector must be resourced by the Commonwealth to communicate important
health information effectively to Aboriginal communities, especially during a health emergency.

Isolation and quarantine mandates were, arguably, the most challenging element of the pandemic. COVID-19
exposed all of the social determinants of health that disproportionately affect Aboriginal people, but it particularly
exposed the lack of safe adequate housing. The Government's pandemic response was built on the assumption that
most individuals could safely isolate in their homes, with promises that safe alternative accommodation for isolation
could and would be provided for those who needed it. However, in reality, large extended families frequently live in
houses that are too small for their day-to-day needs and have no ‘separate room' to isolate. In remote communities,
houses often need urgent refurbishment and repair, with basic plumbing not working. Alternative accommodation
was scarce, often due to the competing demands from tourism and industry, or simply did not exist.

Recommendation 5: Plans for accessible, safe, feasible, and culturally-appropriate isolation and quarantine
options in all WA regions are urgently required before the next pandemic, alongside Government investment
to improve housing and health outcomes for Aboriginal people now.

WA ACCHS' played a critical role in providing COVID-19 testing in both regional and metropolitan WA. Of the 14
Commonwealth GP respiratory clinics (GPRCs) established in WA, four were run by ACCHS (29%). Two of these
were in metropolitan Perth and provided a culturally safe testing option for the largest Aboriginal population in the
state. We heard from one Member that “there were a lot more patients coming in. We found that they weren’t being
tested at the state-based services. They didn’t feel safe or comfortable”. Several other WA ACCHS ran similar
‘respiratory clinics' but chose not to be part of the formal Commonwealth program as COVID-19 testing in regional
and remote areas was permitted within ACCHS (where elsewhere it was restricted in the early pandemic by state
authorities). These ‘respiratory clinics' benefited communities by providing a way for symptomatic people to be tested
at a trusted health service while keeping them separated from asymptomatic people seeking routine primary care.
AHCWA's Members were also Australia's earliest adopters of the Commonwealth-funded GeneXpert COVID-19
point-of-care testing (POCT) program, which was a game-changer in providing access to COVID-19 testing for
Aboriginal people in regional and remote WA. This program provided reassurance and confidence for communities,
as COVID-19 could be rapidly ruled out in people with respiratory symptoms, and FIFO staff could be screened when
returning from potential hotspots (before Rapid Antigen Testing was available). Importantly, the need for several days
of isolation while awaiting results (due to long turn-around-times for results, with samples only being analysed in
Perth) was eliminated.

In 2022, all WA regions experienced the first major wave of COVID-19 in the state. Access to oral anti-viral
medications through pre-placementfrom the National Medical Stockpile by the Commonwealth, and via the state, to
WA ACCHS was exceptional and likely saved lives and prevented hospitalisations throughout WA. Prior to the WA
border opening, however, no agreement was reached to ensure access to the intravenous medication, Sotrovimab

                                  The Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia advocates on behalf of
                           23 Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services in Western Australia to ensure that
                            the health and wellbeing needs of Aboriginal communities are represented at all levels.
                             Copyright© Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia 2023
                                                     Page 2 of 3
                                                                                                                            Aboriginal
                                                                                                                            Health Council
                                                                                                                            of Western Australia


in remote areas, perhaps due to government's oversight in recognising that ACCHS are equipped and experienced
in administering intravenous medications routinely.

Recommendation 6: Future health emergency responses must ensure ACCHS are appropriately resourced
and equipped to respond by funding programs that support testing (e.g. POCT programs) and treatment (e.g.
pre-placement of medications).

All ACCHS in WA were committed to being COVID-19 vaccine providers and most were well prepared and trained
to begin the 1b rollout. Advice provided by the Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) was
generally timely and well communicated. The programmatic change which preferenced Pfizer's vaccine for those
under 50 years was challenging for WA ACCHS, particularly in regional and remote areas, due to the ultra-cold chain
requirements. Despite initial anxiety around the Commonwealth taking responsibility for vaccine supply logistics,
vaccine was delivered successfully with only a few mishaps. The Commonwealth's contract with the Royal Flying
Doctor Service (RFDS) enabled safe transport of the Pfizer vaccine to remote areas across WA. A clear deficiency
in the Commonwealth's vaccine prioritisation strategy was its implementation, with Perth-based residents aged over
30 years able to access vaccination through mass vaccination clinics ahead of most regional and remote Aboriginal
people of any age. An “all comers” mass vaccination strategy, implemented by the state in limited parts of Perth and
the South West, effectively replaced the original state-wide focus on groups most at risk as outlined in Australia's
COVID-19 vaccine national roll-out strategy, with the state Government seeming to view vaccination for Aboriginal
people as a Commonwealth responsibility. Access to vaccination depended not on need but on where a person lived.

Recommendation 7: Where priority populations are identified within a strategy, its implementation should
ensure the population is actually prioritised.
Recommendation 8: Where specific responsibilities within an emergency health response are divided
between the Commonwealth and state/territory governments, this should be clearly articulated to ensure
accountability is understood.

The dissemination of reliable and accurate information and data, in real-time, is essential to effective health
responses. A serious concern for the ACCHS Sector was the way that vaccine coverage data was calculated and
reported by the Commonwealth. Coverage reports used different denominators for Aboriginal (Australian
Immunisation Register (AIR) population) and non-lndigenous populations (Australian Bureau of Statistics Estimated
Resident Population) and had caveats in reports for remote and very remote locations. The basis for why reports
were presented in these ways remains unclear. These decisions had impact. AIR population estimates can be
inaccurate for a variety of reasons (such as completeness of Medicare enrolment and Indigenous identification, and
duplicate cards), and 36% of WA Local Government Areas (LGAs) are classified as remote or very remote. Public
‘naming and shaming' of low coverage LGAs was not helpful, and may have contributed to stigmatisation of some
populations or locations. The accuracy and timeliness of uploading vaccinations to AIR, particularly outside of the
ACCHS Sector, is of concern and an audit to review this, for example by the Australian National Audit Office, is
warranted.

Recommendation 9: Methods for vaccination coverage reporting must be reviewed (inclusive of auditing the
accuracy and timeliness of uploads to AIR), and Indigenous data sovereignty principles must be embedded
in the collection, analysis and reporting of vaccination data.

The ACCHS Sector is a key and unique part of the broader Australian health system, underpinned by a highly skilled
and unique workforce that delivers culturally secure health and wellbeing services for Aboriginal people and their
communities. The ACCHS Sector's response to the COVID-19 pandemic demonstrated its strength, resilience,
capacity to collaborate with a wide variety of stakeholders, and willingness logo above and beyond to keep Aboriginal
communities safe and healthy. Governments must recognise the vital and unique role the ACCHS Sector has in
health emergency planning and response, and ensure the ACCHS Sector is embedded as a valued partner in future
responses.

Recommendation 10: The ACCHS Sector must be recognised as an essential partner in emergency health
responses. This includes being; formally included in response plans, recognised as shared decision­
makers5, trusted through timely and accurate data sharing5, and financially resourced to do the operational
work of the response that the Sector is better-placed than government agencies to do6.



5 Closing the Gap: Priority Reforms https://www.closingthegap.gov.au/national-agreement/priority-reforms
6 For example, communications, testing, vaccination, treatment, case management, etc.
                                                   The Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia advocates on behalf of
                                            23 Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services in Western Australia to ensure that
                                             the health and wellbeing needs of Aboriginal communities are represented at all levels.
                                               Copyright© Aboriginal Health Council of Western Australia 2023
                                                                       Page 3 of 3
