Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission

I do find it difficult to take this Commonwealth Inquiry into Covid-19 Response seriously as it does
not include actions by the States. In addition, you only allowed for ONE WEEK for a submission
period, during the busiest time of the year - Christmas! If I was a conspiracy theorist, I would say
that the government doesn’t want any public input! This is even more apparent given the majority
of the States were under Labor governments.

During the covid era, I saw governments taking over enormous powers that were never given to
them by the Australian people. I saw life-altering decisions made for the entire population based
on little to no evidence or information. I saw the use of violence and coercion against those who
questioned anything that the government said or did. During this time, all I could think about was
my school studies of the book 1984 by George Orwell - he was warning us that this was coming,
over 70 years ago!

During the covid era (March 2020 till today), I saw freedoms disappear. I saw human rights
disappear. I saw respect for all Australians disappear and authoritarian, tyrannical actions
implemented. Here is some of the actions that directly affected me:

1. My youngest daughter was terrified by this virus and the constant fear that the government, in
   conjunction with legacy media and schools were constantly putting out. She ended up with a
   clinical diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder, caused by the lockdowns. There was ZERO
   evidence that this virus affected children. Shame on you!
2. Making children wear masks, when they have NEVER been used for viruses because they are
   unsafe to use for any length of time and they are ineffective. It is child abuse to make children
   wear masks and to be afraid not to wear them.
   Shame on you!
3. You made children stay at home for no reason whatsoever. Lockdowns were unnecessary
   and so hurtful, that my daughter didn’t finish year 11 and 12. This is a kid who is in the 95th
   percentile of intelligence, and your government has just squandered her education through
   your trauma. Shame on you!
4. There was no evidence that lockdowns were helpful to stop a virus. Governments decided
   that lockdowns were better than long standing Australian recommendations for viruses.
   Again, if I were a conspiracy theorist, I would say that the Australian government were in lock­
   step with the corrupt and unelected United Nations and World Health Organisation (please exit
   the WHO, the UN and WEF), instead of listening to Australian pandemic response documents
   that already existed - plus listening to Australian doctors and epidemiologists who were on the
   ground and were working out ways to help. This study shows “lockdown policies are ill-
   founded and should be rejected as a pandemic policy instrument”.
   httDs://ideas.reDec.org/D/ris/jhisae/0200.html?
   fbclid=lwAROJeWPIcN dnOtFljO7WECdt6Ey59T0bTD4LTc9b0eh3SaaVGMJc7z6-0A
5. Not allowing us to leave our homes is a form of domestic violence. There was no reason at all
   for locking us in our homes and sending police to monitor us. Shame on you!
6. Mandating experimental injections (they are not vaccines). Australia is a signatory to the
   Nuremberg Code and this was totally ignored by both government and in the private sector. I
   personally know of many people who were injured and/or died due to this experimental
   injection. Shame on you!
7. Why where politicians immune from the jab mandates ?
8. The ignoring of amazing Australian people on the ground such as Professor^^^^^^^^l
   He created a protocol (including Ivermectin) very early on that was proven to be effective.
   Your government denigrated and gaslit him and actually banned the use of Ivermectin - a
   cheap and effective and safe drug. Shame on you!!
9. We wrote countless letters to various politicians that were ignored. They would hide behind
   ‘it’s a pandemic’ when we called their offices to follow up. There was NO EVIDENCE that the
   covid era was a pandemic. I believe the definition of ‘pandemic’ was changed before the
   covid era. That seems like a very big coincidence. The comorbidities and the age of those
   affected by this virus meant that most people would not be adversely affected. Shame on
   you!
10. Why should the taxpayer be on the hook for indemnifying pharmaceutical companies for their
    unsafe and ineffective products? I have a child who was injured by your despicable injections.
    Shame on you!
11. We were treated lik^/emnoi^ncHowei^hai^iltMav our local Hospital. Our eldest daughter
    was a patient                                       We were restricted from seeing her when
    she had a high risk procedure of re-feeding as the Nurse Unit manager said she had to protect
    her staff and patients from us. We were unable to visit our daughter in the ward she was in for
    close to a year. However we coulch/isit most other wards of the hospital no issue. The da^ur
    dauohtei^a^lischaraechn^^^^^Hth^accinatioi^jcin restricting admission to the^^^H
                                                                     removed. In this said ward
    when only the injected where allowed in our daughter who was coerced and pressured into
   taking the injection, caught covid from a visitor or a staff member. This was at the time
    politicians such as Daniel Andrews are on the public record stating if jabbed you cannot catch
    or spread. We were given no explanation how our daughter caught it from the jabbed. Shame
    on you!!
12. The rules, mandates in place were so confusing that those administering them had no clue.
    We wrote to our local member Mark Speakman NSW to ask for clarification on travel. His
    office could not answer and we were simply advised to carry a printed copy of the rule in the
    event we were stopped and it would be then at the discretion of the officer. Is this Australia or
    North Korea? Shame on you!!
13. It is horrific to think the vast sums of tax payers money that simply rained from the sky like a
    never ending money tree. Having children with disabilities and mental illness and seeing how
    under funded and under resourced these areas are, it is sickening to think a fraction of the
    covid cash splash could have been invested in these areas. It shows where Governments’
    priorities lie! We are now living with the consequences of these actions. Shame on you!!
14. Why is there no effort from govt or ASIO into determining the origins of the virus? If I were a
    conspiracy theorist, I would say that the government already knows and is hiding the fact that
   this virus was created in a lab. Shame on you!!
15. What gain of function research is being done and has been done in Australia?
16. Inconsistency between the States caused harsh issues with travel within our beautiful country.
    We could not see an ageing and unwell Auntie in Queensland because of tyranny between the
    States. She is now dead. Shame on you!!
17. Why was healthy living not being promoted? There is ample evidence that fresh air, exercise
    and sunshine are the best for health and avoiding being sick. Instead you locked us down
    and told us not to exercise or go outside. Shame on you!!
18. AHPRA need to be disbanded asap! They are an unelected bureaucratic arm of the
    pharmaceutical industry and they are dangerous to all those who have a brain to think for
   themselves. Shame on you!!
19. The Thereauputic Goods Administration (TGA) is a grossly conflicted body that receives the
    majority of its funding from those it oversees and regulates. This is a conflict of interest of the
    highest order. Shame on you!!
20. There needs to be a full and thorough Royal Commission into the injection injuries and the
    introduction of a panel of worthy specialists who acknowledge these injuries and are willing to
    help these victims of government tyranny and start treating them instead of gaslighting them.
    Shame on you!!
21. The ones spreading lies and misinformation were and are the government and health
    authorities, together with legacy media. In the cases of the US Twitter files, federal agencies
    were pressuring social media to ban the truth and censor and remove posts. This was also
    happening in Victoria. I assume it was also happening across all governments. A full and
   thorough Royal Commission into the government misinformation and lies is needed. Shame
    on you!!

There is very much more that I have to say, but I only had an hour or so to write this at the last
minute - due to your deception about this matter.

Please contact me at any time to discuss further.
