SUBMISSION TO COVID-19 ENQUIRY
The inadequacy and hypocrisy of the government and media response to Covid was
beyond disgraceful and the failure to recognise the over-reactions and the over-stepping
of powers by bureaucrats and governments must be investigated - but this requires a
Royal Commission, not a cover-up disguised as an enquiry.

The disgraceful behaviour and performance of the WHO demands no less than
Australia’s withdrawal from the WHO and the United Nations.
Both the health and non-health responses
Non-health
   •      Media hysteria and un-truths and/or lying by omission
   •   Devoting hours of media coverage per day to a situation which never exceeded the
       2017 and 2019 flu epidemics
   •   Ridicule of local and international experts and personalities who pointed out the
       obvious flaws, lies and misconceptions spread by media, bureaucrats, government
       departments and ministers
   •   Human rights abuses by Corporate bodies mandating medical interventions upon
       their workers
   •      Parliamentarians NOT required to be jabbed??!!
   •      Closing schools and pre-schools unnecessarily
   •   Closing or limiting churches when tattoo parlours, brothels, etc were allowed to
       keep operating
   •   Basic statistics showed that Covid was never a serious threat to people under 50
       years of age - of average health, but governments and media drove hysteria.
   •      In truth the statistical tipping point is approximately 65 years of age.
   •   Statistically even people over 65 years did not die at a faster rate than average in
       2020 and most of 2021. Australia’s life expectancy continued to rise until the
       second half of 2021 - when Australians were getting Covid vaccinated.
   •   Alarm bells were ringing about 9, 12 ... 18 ...27 elderly people dying of Covid in a
       single day without any media or government spokesperson pointing that on
       average over 350 people over 70 die EVERY DAY in Australia!
   •   The ABS reported in 2022 that total deaths FROM Covid in 2020 and 2021 was 83.
       Deaths with Covid were a manufactured and largely misleading statistic - mainly
       due to the misleading nature of the PCR and RAT tests.
Health
Statistically speaking the figures say that most people who have had Covid have had it at
least once and many have had it multiple times. Therefore, 95% of the world’s population
were unaffected by Covid and 99% of the 5% who did catch it survived and 95% of the
1% that did die were suffering from at least three chronic co-morbidities - that is they
were going to die anyway - which is supported by the Australian death statistics for 2020
and 2021. They would have died if they caught a cold, the flu, a stomach bug, had a fall
or were heartbroken or lonely BECAUSE THEY WERE UNABLE TO SEE THEIR FAMILY.
In May 2022 Bill Gates admitted that “the Covid fatality rate was low, focussed on the
elderly and ‘kinda like the flu’”...
•   Pfizer admits its vaccine was never designed or tested to stop transmission. Why
    did our media, bureaucrats and governments lie and misinform about this?
•   The key factors for good health are: fresh air, sunshine, exercise, healthy diet,
    companionship and a good night’s sleep. The world’s health bureaucrats (including
    the WHO) directed people to stay indoors, do not talk to people, order fast food and
    ... who could sleep with the barrage of lies and fear-mongering directed at us?
•   Never during the pandemic did I hear a doctor, health, bureaucrat, government or
    media personality refer to the above requirements for good health. NOR, did they
    express the importance of EARLY TREATMENT. Indeed the opposite was true -
    “Stay at home until you are so sick that you must go to hospital” was heard
    repeatedly - this has never been recommended for ANY ailment.
•   Never did a doctor, health, bureaucrat, government or media personality mention
    the benefits of Vitamin C, D, Zinc or aspirin - in fact when takers of Vitamin D and
    aspirin were mentioned as having statistically better outcomes than those who
    don’t - Vitamin D and Aspirin were quickly shot down as having any benefit??
•   When people did go to hospital the mandated treatment was the worst possible
    approach - high flow rate ventilators so they constantly breathed in what their
    system need to expel - at a higher rate than their body was capable of coping with.
    Plus, Remdesivir - a drug which many doctors say should be banned because it
    has an unacceptable death rate and shuts down internal organs.
•   Interesting that when Big Pharma did come out with pills to deal with Covid
    symptoms - early treatment was emphasised as CRITICAL to its success!
•   Eventually a horrendous “one solution fits all” experimental gene therapy was
    mandated regardless of your medical history, age, size, sex, race, etc - the same
    shot was given to all. Far from standard medical procedure.
•   Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine are now acknowledged as being beneficial in
    conjunction with C,D and Zinc - but not while Big Pharma was trying to get their
    new drugs approved!?
•   Why are the Covid vaccine contracts with our governments so protected and
    secret?




•   Vaccine injuries and deaths are being covered up because the perpetrators include
    the governments and they cannot afford the scandal, the sentences or the payouts
•   Investigate financial inducements to hospitals for Covid treatment and death and to
    media organisations for supporting the narrative. Not one mainstream journalist
    proved to be a true investigative journalist - only the so-called conspiracy theorists
    who have been proven to be far more correct than governments, bureaucrats and
    mainstream media eg. Wuhan Lab leak, Fauci/US financing of ‘Gain of Function’
    research, bogus ‘research papers attacking Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine, etc
•   PCR tests and RAT tests, by design, identified miniscule traces of Covid which
    were insufficient to make many sick, or were easily handled by our immune
    systems
   •   The whole process was intended to inflate numbers and cause panic - a deliberate
       scam to scare people into compliance and the same is starting happen to with
       ‘climate change’
   •   Why were doctors, nurses, ambos and paramedics heroes for a year and then
       demonised when their common sense and training told them not to risk this
       experimental gene therapy??
   •   How can Covid be blamed for mass deaths in 2022 and 2023 when the “SAFE
       AND EFFECTIVE VACCINES” had been taken by 95% of the population and Covid
       had degraded to mainly cold symptoms in the form of Omicron. Logically it cannot
       be Covid causing deaths - although people may have had it (to some degree).
       However, it could be the vaccine causing excess deaths - which suppresses the
       immune system (against ANY disease), then tells every cell in your body to make
       the troublesome spike protein - whereas the virus only impacts the respiratory
       system. Why infect the whole body to ‘help’ the respiratory system?

Responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government and the role of state and
territory governments

       abuses



   •   Scott Morrison deserves particular attention for hiding behind “we do not mandate
       vaccines” but people could not leave the house, go to school or university, go to
       entertainment venues or work if they were not vaccinated. There were obviously
       contract inducements or encouragements to corporations to take their mandate
       actions. The government could have granted safe work and health immunity to
       corporations because no-one can be held responsible for the existence or
       transmission of an airborne virus and the government could have reinforced that it
       is a human rights violation to force vaccinations
   •   The Australian government and State Premiers used legislation passed only in one
       state to apply illegally across many states and/or nationally

How national governance arrangements including National Cabinet, informed
decisions by governments
  • The National Cabinet is an unconstitutional entity which has no rights or powers
      and represents a huge over-reach by Scott Morrison and the respective Premiers

The Covid vaccinated are far more likely to catch Covid again and again and to be
hospitalised by it. This inquiry should call on local and international expert witnesses who




AS A MINMUM, AUSTRALIA MUST REJECT THE WHO IHR AMENDMENTS AND
THE PANDEMIC TREATY ...
BUT THE BETTER SOLUTION FOR AUSTRALIA IS TO EXIT THE WHO AND
PREFERABLY ALSO EXIT THE UNITED NATIONS
