AUSTRALIAN ROYAL COMISSION - COVID19 ACTIONS - GOVERNMENT RESPONSE



COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce




RE: AUSTRALIAN ROYAL COMISSION - COVID19 ACTIONS - GOVERNMENT RESPONSE



Dear Sir/Madam,

I am writing this submission to demand a Royal Commission and full investigation into the Australian
Commonwealth Government's COVID-19 response and handling of the pandemic.

I am a scientist (Chemical), engineer                   former academic of major university in OLD
and appalled at the poor level of scientific method and humane actions during the Covid 19 period.

I have MANY doctor friend also who I checked with on these matters and many who are in politics
now because of this mishandling. Many outraged at the mis-use of power and obscene over trust on
Pharmaceutical companies that have been cauahtj
                    [We should not trust^Mand               this way. See link to US Justice
Departmentfor^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H- https://www.iustice.gov/opa/pr/iustice-department-
announces-largest-health-care-fraud-settlement-its-history

I have also witnessed the harrowing effect of the government response not only for myself but for
family members, friends and colleagues.

I have had many family and friends FORCED to get vaccines that don't work, and later ALL GOT
C0VID19. I also was refused a job that paid very well based on this poorly educated and checked
vaccine rollout.

There are numerous other points which I wish to raise within this submission which have been
highlighted below.

PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES, VACCINES AND GOVERNMENT:

 • The acquisition of vaccines and process undertaken for this should be made public. This should
identify and exposure any fraudulent and/or underhanded contracts with vaccine manufacturers.

 • The relationship between government officials, decision makers and pharmaceutical companies to
be investigated and exposed, including any financial or other benefits obtained by government
officials by recommending and/or mandating any drugs or products. Changes in laws should be put in
place to prevent this corrupt practice from happening again.

 • Liability exemption for pharmaceutical companies has to cease. Every other profession has to take
on liability for their actions, yet pharmaceutical companies can manufacture deadly and untested
drugs and ensure they are prescribed to people without any risk or liability to themselves. This is
unethical and needs to stop.

MANDATES AND LOCKDOWNS:

• The vaccine mandates and lockdowns were ineffective, and apparently illegal. These two areas
have led to the majority of the disasters associated with COVID-19.

 • Police were taken off their normal duties of preventing and investigating criminals to chasing down
people who were going out for a walk. The number of hours lost to this process, including the hours
spent policing COVID ‘vigilantes', the hours spent within the courts, on lawyers, fighting fines and
having them subsequently dismissed. The increase in crime rate during this time that police were not
able to ‘fight crimes' would also be an interesting statistic to review.


                                                                                           1 | Pa ge
AUSTRALIAN ROYAL COMISSION - COVID19 ACTIONS - GOVERNMENT RESPONSE



 • These mandates and lockdowns caused an extreme mental health pandemic. Statistics show that
there was a greater loss of life and health challenges due to mental health rather than to COVID-19
during this period. Undertaking a full risk assessment of the impact of such mandates and lockdowns
should have been completed before these were even considered, rather than operating in a kneejerk
style reaction, or following suit of other countries.

These mandates and lockdowns resulted in various loss of jobs and fracturing of family units (how
dare the premier tell people to disown their family members and refuse to see them if they are not
vaccinated). It also resulted in a loss of community and connection, including church and social
gatherings.

 • Healthcare shortages were at their extreme during the pandemic, and continue to this
day. Mandating an experimental drug to be taken by everyone is a foolish and risky
action. Healthcare workers should be considered the experts with healthcare, and by mandating this
untested vaccine resulted in thousands of experienced and exceptional staff losing their jobs, which
ultimately resulted in thousands of experienced and exceptional staff being unable to provide care to
people during this critical period. Many of these professionals have taken early retirement, or have
obtained jobs outside of the healthcare industry, and will not return regardless of relaxing of any
current mandates. This loss of talent and experience, and the impact on the healthcare sector and
provision of services to the general public will continue to be felt for decades to come.

 • Wearing of masks should not be mandated in any situation. Firstly, it is a well-researched fact that
the masks do not prevent any transmission of COVID-19, with some likening it to attempting to catch
a fly using a fishing net. Secondly wearing of masks prevented effective communication with others,
desperately felt by the elderly, the hearing impaired, and the young. Thirdly this also had significant
issues for people with medical conditions such as skin conditions, such as eczema, or breathing
difficulties. Lastly the psychological impact of this was huge, this includes those who have previously
undergone trauma associated with binding of the mouth or face, and the psychological impact for
those who did not wish to participate in an Orwellian experiment but feared for (unlawful) fines and
loss of job.

CENSORSHIP:

 • There was constant government and media misinformation regarding the safety and effectiveness
of vaccines, which ultimately led to people believing they were doing the 'right thing' only to end up
with a vaccine injury, and left to fend for themselves, without any government support or recognition.

 • Statistics showing COVID-19 illness, which was initially published by state health departments,
suddenly ceased (which happened to coincide with the trend showing that it was largely the
vaccinated that were becoming hospitalised and dying from COVID-19). There should be full
publication of all injuries and deaths associated not only with COVID-19, but also vaccine
related. This will further provide relevant information allowing the general public to make an informed
decision about their own healthcare choices.

• There should not be any censorship of information on social media, in medical journals, within the
media or any institution. As the general public it is our right to hear all of the evidence, listen to
everyone's opinion, and use our best judgement to decide what is right for us.

IMPACT OF MEDICAL TREATMENT AND OPTIONS:

 • During this time, and continuing still, there has been silencing of doctors, healthcare professionals
and various experts on this subject. Healthcare is about the fully educated, qualified and trained
professional utilising all of their knowledge, training and clinical judgement, and applying that to the
individual and their specific circumstances. By silencing healthcare professionals, this practice was
prevented, and it made having a medical or healthcare degree worthless as professionals just had to
‘follow orders' or else were fired, de-registered or suspended. Individual medical and healthcare
practitioners should be allowed to practice and provide treatment as they see fit, utilising their own
knowledge and years of training, research and clinical observations.


                                                                                             2 | Page
AUSTRALIAN ROYAL COMISSION - COVID19 ACTIONS - GOVERNMENT RESPONSE



AHPRA displayed significant censorship and overreach of doctors and healthcare professionals,
refusing to have any reasonable discourse with anyone who dared to speak out against the official
government mandated narrative. This is not and should not be the role of AHPRA or any other
organisation.

 • There was removal of choice for alternate treatment options, many of which have been proven to be
safe and effective for various ailments over the years. Mandating only one (ineffective and unsafe)
option, has led to more deaths than the disease itself. This also resulted in many of the general
public resorting to black market sources for these alternate options.

GOVERNMENT ACTIONS AND INVOLVEMENT:

 • The commonwealth government and individual states should only provide ‘guidance’ around any
pandemic, current situation and recommended actions. None of this guidance should be mandated or
forced upon an individual, a business, or a community. There should be no mandates, nor any
negative impact to any individual who decides to undertake their own course of action, rather than
follow the general guidelines touted by the state. We are not a communist country and should not be
under any form of communist dictatorial control.

 • As with the general public, when senators and publicly elected members of parliament speak out
against the official narrative, they should be given full courtesy and right to do so. Their opinion
should be respected, just like everyone else's opinion. Anything less is childish, ineffectual and
appears to everyone outside the room like someone is throwing a tantrum when they do not get their
way.

ECONOMIC IMPACT:

 • The Impact on the economy has been devastating, with this impact still been felt today, more than
ever. Government incentives during business lockdowns whilst a fair short-term option, resulted in
many people deciding not to return to the workforce, rather staying on government funding
(sometimes even earning greater wages than they would have if they returned to work). The required
time off for a COVID positive test was rorted by many individuals, and had devastating impacts for
many businesses.

 If the statistics for COVID illness and deaths are reviewed closely and compared with the seasonal
flu (which appeared to disappear completely during these years) you will likely find that the numbers
are almost identical. This again shows that the government response to this ‘pandemic’ was over­
reaching, control focused, and completely ineffective. It has led to much more significant problems
both personally for individuals and largely for the greater community. There has never been a time,
until during this response, that I have considered giving up my Australian citizenship and relocating to
another country.

Australia should NOT be a part of the World Health Organisation's Pandemic Treaty and should not
be following directions from other countries, unelected officials or other organisations. Australia
should decide what works for Australia, with the experts and individual medical and healthcare
professionals deciding what works best for their own patients with their own unique circumstances.

As initially stated, I demand a Royal Commission and full investigation into the Australian
Commonwealth Government's COVID-19 response and handling of the pandemic. I also expect that
there will not be any negative impact to any individual or organisation who has provided these
submissions.

We MUST conduct royal commission for anything that shutdown the economy for nearly 1-2 years
and still affects businesses. I might remind you all this is meant to be a democracy, NOT a
dictatorship like China. Justice MUST prevail and we HAVE to do better next time.

Regards,




                                                                                             3 | Page
