 Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission

I believe the Australian Government, the Members of Parliament and Senators, have failed the people of
Australia during the Coronavirus Pandemic known as COVID 19. These people are empowered to uphold
the Australian Constitution Act and have taken an oath to do this and to take their submissions from "We
the People of the Commonwealth of Australia" WITHOUT interference from unelected international
interests such as Pharmaceutical companies, UN, WEF and international elites with a vested interest in
themselves. To take their instructions from anyone other than "We the people of the Commonwealth of
Australia" is surmount to TREASON and should be punished by conviction in court as such.

My reasons for this belief is as follows:

   1. The powers of the Commonwealth with respect to legislating on medical issues is one of the items
      in section 51 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act.

Section SlfxxiiiA) states “the provision of maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child
endowment, unemployment, pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits, medical and dental
services (but not so as to authorize any form of civil conscription), benefits to students and family
allowances;

The Constitution was amended by referendum to include this provision in 1946.

In the written judgement of Webb J., speaking on this section of the Constitution, he stated:

"I think the electors would have taken the proposed law to emphasize, in the use of the words "any form,"
that legislation for the provision of benefits or services of the kind referred to could not authorize
compulsory service of any kind, at least in the provision of medical or dental services, either
independently or as incidental to pharmaceutical or other benefits, and that compulsion, to any extent or
of any nature, whether legal, by the imposition ofpenalties, or practical, by any other means, direct or
indirect, could not be authorized. To require a person to do something which he may lawfully decline to
do but only at the sacrifice of the whole or a substantial part of the means of his livelihood would, I think,
be to subject him to practical compulsion amounting to conscription in the case ofservices required by
Parliament to be rendered to the people. If Parliament cannot lawfully do this directly by legal
means it cannot lawfully do it indirectly by creating a situation, as distinctfrom merely taking
advantage of one, in which the individual is left no real choice but compliance." (at p293)
"But when this service is made compulsory by a fine, or loss ofpractice to avoid the fine, in the case of any
patient, with few exceptions, who does not request that the Commonwealth form be not used, then,
having regard not only to the extent of the professional work involved but to the almost unlimited
number of persons entitled to insist on the service at any time, it becomes, I think, not merely a
compulsory service but a form of civil conscription within any meaning that can be given to that
expression which, if not quite clear, was certainly intended to be comprehensive. It is civil conscription of
doctors as doctors. When Parliament comes between patient and doctor and makes the lawful
continuance of their relationship as such depend upon a condition, enforceable by fine, that the
doctor shall render the patient a special service, unless that service is waived by the patient, it creates a
situation that amounts to a form of civil conscription.’fat p 295)

   2. Also provided in the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia Act, to determine who has the
      over-riding power, Commonwealth or State section 109 clarifies this as "When a law of a State
      is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail, and the
      former shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be invalid”
This section clearly shows that the Commonwealth should have stopped the States from forcing
the medical civil conscription that they enforced with their mandating policies such as "No Jab,
No Work" and all similar efforts as the States were clearly inconsistent with the Commonwealth under
section 51 (xxiiiA).

   3. in addition to these sections is 117 which states "A subject of the Queen, resident in any
      State, shall not be subject in any other State to any disability or discrimination
      which would not be equally applicable to him if he were a subject of the Queen
       resident in such other State."
The Commonwealth should have stepped in and stopped each state discriminating within
and at the border of each state the covid restrictions imposed on the people it was meant
to protect. There were clear differences between each state with what was imposed on its
constituents with some not even allowed to return to their home address.

These restrictions also resulted in harm to the people, both physical and mental harm to all
people of all ages which also brought about deaths by suicide.

In these regards the Commonwealth FAILED in its duty to provide to all the people of the
Commonwealth of Australia the "laws for the peace, order, and good government of the
Commonwealth" as required by the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act.

   4. In addition to the failure of the Commonwealth to uphold the Constitution that it is
        supposed to administer our laws through, they paid Pharmaceutical companies
        BILLIONS of our taxpayer funds to purchase untested drugs with unknown side
        effects to administer to the people without any knowledge of what harm these drugs
        will do to their constituents. The number of doses purchased far exceeds what could
        possibly by required. This is nothing but fraud committed by those who are supposed
        to be accountable for the administration of our funds.

The TGA have now admitted that they approved these drugs without due care and diligence
and are receiving reports of deaths and injury from Australians who were forced to receive
these untested drugs. There is also the lists of known reactions, including death, of these
experimental drugs that all pharmaceutical companies have attempted to hide from their
findings and did not disclose where they should have as was required, ie they botched their
required disclosures and LIED to sell their wares.

This treatment of Australians comes under Human Rights abuses and of a similar nature
disclosed to the Nuremberg Trials conducted at the end of WW2 where those who were
complicit in the medical experimentation carried out were found guilty and hanged for
their crimes which resulted in the recommendations which Australia is a signatory to, that
also brought about the constitutional amendment of section 5l(xxiii) to section 5l(xxiiiA) in
1946.

   5. A further item I wish to state is that from the American Medical Association Medical
        Encyclopedia page 1051 where it lists "Coronavirus" and gives a typical example of
      this virus as "the common cold" which was published by Random House Inc. New
      York NY in 1989. This fact that COVID 19 is a variation of Coronavirus and of the
      common cold shows that our politicians panicked when the pharmaceutical
      companies spread their lies and scare-mongering to engineer the panic so that
      governments world-wide would not seek professional medical opinions such as_____
      Professor
             Dr^^^^^along with several hundred more independent and published
      specialists who all spoke against these drugs, before purchasing these experimental
      drugs, shutting economies and forcing masks, lockdowns and border closures. All that
      this has done is supply bigger profits to BIG PHARMA.

Most people are now aware of the lies that have been perpetrated by "Big PHARMA" and
politicians which is why there are so few who have had the subsequent additional JABS
being continually pushed by "main stream media" and why so many people do not use
main stream media any more.

This period in our recent history has shown that Australia, if it continues to be dictated by
Politicians to the People of Australia is no longer a democratic and free nation but one
governed by those who want the people to be enslaved and dictated. This is NOT what our
forefathers fought for or wrote our constitution for. Our constitution was written that the
people of Australia were always in control of the government and all its laws, as a
democratic free country NOT A DICTATORSHIP or under COMMUNIST RULE.

   6. No Doctor, who has gone through their training of several years, should EVER be
      threatened with the removal of their licence by any medical body based on a
      difference of opinion for treatment as happened during the Covid-19 scandal which
      was based on political and Big Pharma opinion NOT on MEDICAL practice.

Our medical board NEEDS to be INDEPENDENT of political and pharmaceutical coercion in
every decision that is made. Every decision made both by the TGA, ATAGI and the medical
board needs to be free, open, accountable and available to every person of Australia.
The next time the ^^^^Hhead of the UN,^^^^ speaks of a Pandemic the Australian
politicians need to seek the opinions of those in the recognised field of medical expertise
who have been published with distinction in their field and seek their further opinion
BEFORE making any decisions about what we, the people should be asked to do. This also
should ALWAYS be the decision of We the People whether we adhere to the advice or not
based on our individual circumstances and consultation with our own doctor. Whatever
happens, what we the people do should ALWAYS be OUR OWN DECISION and NEVER be a
Government requirement. Australia needs to be democratically free in every decision each
person makes.

Trish Davis,
15/12/2023
