Submission To Covid Inquiry

Brice Kaddatz OAM




December 13th 2023

The greatest injustice in the Covid debacle was the forced removal of Ivermectin and
Hydroxychloroquine from available treatments for Covid 19. This was initiated only short weeks
after the pandemic was declared. Doctors, many of whom had prescribed these proven medications
for decades were forbidden from doing so for treatment of Covid, under the threat of very heavy
fines and cruelly impacted reputations.

The question/statement becomes “If these medications were safe to use and would do no harm why
would they be banned?”. The answer is not so difficult to appreciate.

It is patently obvious that this move was to meet the demands of the major suppliers of hastily
developed and approved MRNA injections claimed to be total effective against Covid. This claim
has since been shown to be largely devoid of fact. Only a fraction of the $18 Billion invested by our
Governments has been utilised and the so-called jab has rapidly fallen into public distrust.

There are thousands of recorded cases of severe side effects of these MRNA injections. Close
associates and friends are among those who have suffered major impacts on their health and lives.

More importantly, however, is the fact that both Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin are proven and
known to be beneficial in the treatment of Covid. It is a true reflection that it is very likely a great
number of hospitalisations and many subsequent premature deaths could have been avoided with a
timely intervention with either or both of these medications. Why was this not actioned? The
answer is obvious in that there was comparatively little money to be made as both of these products
were long off patent and manufactured freely in large volumes across the world. Ultimately, where
they were used the benefits against Covid were proven and anticipated success substantiated.

This statement goes to the successful use of Ivermectin by (my) relatives in the USA and associates
in Zimbabwe. In our own case, my ^^Hand myself used Ivermectin to treat Covid having
contracted the virus at a large gathering of several hundred people. We had chosen NOT to have the
jab even though we both fall into the vulnerable category being in our mid-70’s.

The benefit of Ivermectin was immediately evident. Within short hours of the first dose all initial
symptoms were eliminated. A second dose two days after completed the treatment. In my case the
slight effect of so-called “long covid” lingered for a few weeks before totally dissipating.

I wrote to the then PM seeking a legitimate response as to why this restriction and obvious
miscarriage of social justice had been perpetrated on the population. A totally politicised response
was received with no reference to the question. This was then pursued with his successor with the
same outcome. NOTHING to see here.

The fact is the so-called national cabinet stood behind the multi-national big pharma companies,
aided and abetted a most significant injustice on the Australian population. No supporting politician
can be absolved of the failure to maintain the best possible options to treat Covid at the time.

This must never be repeated. Total transparency of this unwelcome experience is demanded.

Both Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin have since been quietly removed from the restricted list.

Submitted sincerely.
