To the Panel,


It is interesting that yet again that the Govt have allowed only a short window of opportunity for
the Pubic to comment on the handling of the supposed Pandemic.

Governance, including roles and responsibilities :

Being forced through overt and coercive measures to take an experimental drug or lose our jobs
was an obscene abuse of power.

The beneficiaries of the Australian Govt and OLD Govt Response were ONLY Big Pharma, Big
Business and their own pockets. Middle and low income earners and small business owners were
hugely penalised by the Govt response.

2 members of my family lost their jobs and only means of income due to these harsh measures.


Govt should not to be encouraging Media and Online Propaganda and dis/misinformation or
Censorship. That is a dangerous downward spiral into tyranny.

We are totally opposed to how the Govt treated protesters and to those who questioned the
overarching Media Narrative. It was a divisive narrative on purpose.

Free Speech, the right to gather and to peacefully protest without being attacked by Police, as
well as access to dissenting opinions online or elsewhere is VITAL for better understanding, open
discussion, learning and growth. To encourage the de-platforming of alternative health and
opinion sites was fear-based, petty and destructive.Once again impacting peoples lives in
negative way.

It is imperative that Media giants such as Facebook, Google and even Amazon as well as the
kowtowing general media and news outlets show some investigative backbone and encourage
discussion and exploration rather than shutting information channels down.

The emotional blackmail and emotive propaganda used to push this experimental drug on the
entire populace, particularly young children (who were statistically shown to be at low risk of
complications from or even passing on Covid to others) is heinous and an anathema to free
health choices over our bodies and our children’s bodies.

Interestingly a number of Senior Politicians and Police etc were granted Exemptions from taking
the Experimental drugs but that option was rarely permitted or easy for a member of the Public to
access.

Australians Abroad:

Were just abandoned! Better communication and support to get them home was required.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations

Do not blindly follow the USA or the WHO - both are in the pocket of Big Pharma ,who does not
care about our health but has a vested interest in keeping us sick.

Health choices should ALWAYS be made by the individual concerned rather than the entity that
will make a monetary profit or incur a future benefit by providing the supposedly beneficial yet
synthetic substance we are expected to meekly put into our bodies.


Yours Sincerely
TM
