Submission to Covid-19 Response Inquiry



It is my firm belief that the Australian Government's response to Covid-19 was completely
disproportionate to the actual threat of the disease and did (and continues to do) far more harm
than any good.

Initially, I believed the government was acting with wisdom, supposedly knowing more about this
allegedly novel disease than I did and trying its best to protect the nation's people. However, I
became doubtful that the response was, in fact, for the good of the people, when I realized that the
government was purposely fuelling fear in the population - trying to terrify citizens into giving up
their inalienable freedoms - in the name of a virus, which, in reality, was not actually killing more
people than a bad flu would have.

Fear is the tactic of criminals and tyrants to get what they want. It should never be the tactic of a free
nation's government to supposedly "protect" its people.

The government's covid response was played out with extreme tunnel-vision. The authorities were
singularly focused on preventing the number of "cases" of the virus through lock-down and isolation;
no matter whether these "case" numbers would ever translate into anything more than a mild cold.
There was no attention paid to the simple prevention of severe illness through the age-old remedies
of good diet and vitamin intake, vitamin d (sunlight) exposure, and good mental and spiritual health.
Instead, citizens were locked in their homes, denied the ability to worship God, denied the ability to
run their businesses, or work their jobs, or go to school, separated from their loved ones (including
those who were dying, whom they would never see again), and suffered to a constant barrage of
fear-driven messages 24/7.

The initial caution about travel to and from China was prudent, but after that, the response became
absurdly out of hand and tyrannical.

No-one should have been locked-down ever, especially not the healthy, or those who may have been
exposed. People who were sick, could have been advised (not forced) to stay at home, and those
who were not sick should have been free to live their lives unhindered.

No-one should have been denied entry to any event or place that they would have been legally
allowed to enter pre-2020. No-one should have been forced to "check-in" and have their private
movements tracked. The government wasted an outrageous amount of taxpayers' money on the
making and advertising of the "covid-safe app", which nobody even ended up using (the States
replacing it with their own apps). The Federal government should have done everything in its power
to stop the State governments from dividing Australia and preventing citizens from crossing state­
borders. Australians were forced, like eastern Europeans under communist rule, to "show their
papers" to travel to another part of their own, (free) country. This must never ever happen again.

The lock-downs, travel restrictions, social distancing etc. caused unimaginable harm, and they were
never part of Australia's officially planned pandemic response in the first place. Why were the official
plans not followed? Why did the government destroy lives and the economy with such a myopic
response to this issue? Different views were belittled, repressed, censored, and attacked, even when
they came from experts. When the desperate plight of those being harmed by these measures was
raised by some, it was ignored or crushed by the government. Those who lost their loved ones to
suicide or their business to lock-down, or their sanity to social isolation must blame the government
response, not the virus. Australians in the past, lived with diseases which had higher mortality rates
than covid-19, and so we can again. Lock-downs, border-closures, social isolation and mandates must
never again be used for pandemic response in this country.

What should have happened?

The Government should have followed Australia's officially planned (pre-2020) pandemic response. It
was known quite early in the pandemic that the elderly, the obese, those with diabetes and other co­
morbidities were at greater risk of severe illness from Covid-19 infection. Those in these categories
could have had home isolation, travel caution etc. recommended to them, and been more closely
monitored if they were infected. Everyone else, especially the young and healthy, should have been
advised to practise good hygiene (such as washing hands and staying home when sick) and,
otherwise, should have been unaffected and uninhibited by this outbreak. Masks could have been
recommended to those who were sick, when they needed to be out in public, but should never have
been recommended (and never ever mandated) to those who were not sick. Masks restrict oxygen
intake, encourage the build-up of bacteria and lead to the inhalation of microparticles. The
government, as in past times, should have recommended against healthy people wearing masks
during the pandemic.

As mentioned above, the Federal Government could have done more to ensure Australia was not
divided back into isolated colonies, with Premiers and unelected Chief Health Officers being given
unprecedented power over the people who were unfortunate enough to live in their part of the
country. With the formation of the National Cabinet and the frequent meetings held between the
Prime Minister and the State Premiers, why were the concerns of Australians not being heard? What
happened in the National Cabinet Meetings? Did                      reveal, for instance, that he would
mandate the vaccine for every, single industry in Victoria; effectively
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Kprohibited in the Australian Government's Immunization handbook) to
be vaccinated whether they gave consent or not? Scott Morrison promised Australians that the
vaccine would not be mandated, yet the Federal Government sat back and did nothing to protect
citizens from the pressure and coercion inflicted upon them by the States. Federal Legislation could
and should have been passed that prevented discrimination based on immunization status. The
minutes/transcripts from these meetings should have been made fully available and unredacted to
Australians, considering the issues discussed directly affected them. If the decisions had been
discussed in the parliament, as they had always been before, Australians would have had access to
this information and their representative MPs would have been able to have a say and raise their
concerns. The amount of secrecy surrounding these meetings was unprecedented and completely
inappropriate for a democratic nation

In fact, the amount of secrecy involved in the covid response overall was not acceptable. For
instance, why were the contracts between the government and the vaccine manufacturers secret?
When the government spends 8 billion dollars of tax-payer funds, we should know what exactly they
bought into. The amount of money spent and wasted on the covid response by the government has
been excessive, and that doesn't even take into account the destruction of the economy (of which
we are now feeling the results) due to unnecessary, ineffective lock-downs.

All-in-all, the Australian government's response to the covid pandemic mimicked that of other over­
reacting countries, such as China, and included the kind of secrecy, narrative-control and propaganda
that you would have expected from said communist nation, rather than a democracy. There was
none of the home-grown inventiveness and ingenuity and open scientific debate that would have
occurred in crises of the past. Why did Australia censor many of its own scientific experts? Why did
Australia allow
       without say even over their own bodies, rather than free and dignified human beings?

The power, control, censorship, propaganda, and secrecy displayed in the Australian government's
covid response, has given rise to its belief that Australians are seemingly ok with the government
taking control of their lives, bodies and privacy, and has led to a whole slew of other power-hungry,
freedom-stripping legislation being put forward by the government, such as misinformation and
digital ID bills. Australians do not want these things. Australians did not want the covid response they
were given. The errors and gross violations of human rights must be called-out now, so as to never be
repeated in the future.




    •        both the health and non-health responses

    •   responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government and the role of state and territory
        governments

    •   how national governance arrangements including National Cabinet, informed decisions by
        governments.
