                                                                                      Australian Institute
                                                                                       for Teaching and
                                                                                      School Leadership
                                                                                                    Limited


                                                                                   ABN 17 117 362 740

15 December 2023

Ms Robyn Kruk AO, Professor Catherine Bennett, and Dr Angela Jackson
Inquiry Panel Members
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.gov.au



Dear Inquiry Panel Members,

On behalf of the Australian Institute for Teaching and School Leadership Limited (AITSL), I am
writing in response to your request to provide a brief submission to the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

About AITSL
AITSL is a Commonwealth company that provides national leadership for the Australian, state, and
territory governments in promoting excellence in the profession of teaching and educational
leadership across schools and early childhood settings. AITSL’s focus is on ensuring Australia has
a high-quality education system in which teachers and leaders have the greatest impact on every
learner's educational growth and achievement.

For over a decade, AITSL has worked to strengthen teaching through our               j ameworks and
supported teachers and leaders to reflect on their practice and grow their expertise with a range of
tools and resources. Our role also extends to informing the national conversation on teacher
workforce supply, characteristics and experiences through the implementation of the Australian
Teacher Workforce Data initiative, which AITSL delivers as commissioned by Education Ministers.

Impact of COVID-19 on teaching and learning
There is already some early evidence of how COVID-19 affected teaching and learning including in
Australia’s schools. Understanding the long-term impacts should be a future priority.

Impact on teachers and teaching
To understand the impact of COVID-19 on teachers, AITSL added an open-ended question to its
2021 AITSL Stakeholder Survey (conducted between 22 February and 9 April 2021):

         l/l/e know that the last 12 months have been difficult on educators and students. How has
         COVID-19 impacted you as an educator or your students?




 Melbourne Office               info@aitsl.edu.au
 PO Box 299                     aitsl.edu.au
 Collins Street West VIC 8007    +61 3 9944 1200                                             Page 1 of 6
A total of 1,014 stakeholders nationwide responded to this question. Almost half of the
respondents worked in Victoria (21%) or New South Wales (27%), where comparatively longer
periods of remote learning occurred.

Subsequent to this, AITSL commissioned ORIMA Research to conduct a thematic analysis of the
qualitative responses and a literature synthesis to identify and summarise research findings on the
impact of the pandemic on teachers and teaching practices, and on students and their learning.
This work informed AITSL’s June 2021 release of its report,
 7 Aus        A literature synth* . s.

The main findings of the report are summarised below:
   •   Almost a third of stakeholders surveyed indicated that the COVID-19 pandemic had a
       negative impact on students (30%). Decreased wellbeing, including elevated fatigue or
       stress, was most commonly mentioned (10%), followed by decreased academic
       achievement and students falling behind (9%), or decreased engagement in learning (7%).
   •   Only 2% of stakeholders mentioned that the COVID-19 pandemic positively impacted
       students, with comments generally related to students gaining more independence and
       resilience.
   •   Most stakeholders commented that the COVID-19 pandemic had a negative impact on
       themselves as educators or their students (62%), while less than one in five felt that the
       pandemic had a positive impact (18%). One in five stakeholders indicated that the
       pandemic had little to no impact or had a neutral impact (20%).
   •   Commonly reported negative impacts on educators were increased workload or time
       requirements (23%) and decreased wellbeing, including elevated fatigue or stress (22%).
       Almost one in ten comments indicated a lack of support, appreciation, or recognition from
       schools/leadership/the Department (8%).
   •   Commonly reported positive impacts on educators included improved knowledge or use of
       technology or information technology skills (10%). A smaller proportion of stakeholders
       reported having more time to reflect on and change their teaching practice (3%) and having
       a better understanding and connection between teachers, parents and the community (3%).
   •   Upskilling in technology, juggling multiple modes of work and adapting teaching
       approaches for continued student learning added to work complexity and working hours for
       most teachers.
   •   Evidence indicated that teacher wellbeing, both physical and mental health, was already
       poor pre-pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic, by contributing to teacher workload and
       pressure, further negatively impacted teacher morale and wellbeing.
   •   Teachers reported being in a high-risk category for contracting COVID-19 and felt anxiety
       related to personal risk and risk for family members and their students.
   •   While student wellbeing was of paramount concern for educators, and directed how
       schools and teachers adjusted curriculum, teaching and assessment approaches, available
       data indicated that student wellbeing was significantly negatively affected.




                                                                                           Page 2 of 6
Impact on student learning
The impact of COVID-19 on student learning will vary, as students will have had a range of
experiences during the pandemic. Generally, national-level results in the National Assessment
Program - Literacy and Numeracy (NAPLAN) were steady in 2021 and 2022, despite significant
disruptions in some schools. NAPLAN testing was not conducted in 2020, to reduce the burden on
schools during the pandemic.

Recently released results from the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) not
only confirm that Australia’s results in 2022 were similar to those in 2018, but also that this is
unusual internationally. Most other countries saw performance decline over this period. Australia,
therefore moved up the international performance rankings. This points to the outstanding support
that teachers, principals and other school staff provide to Australia’s 4 million students, as well as
the resilience and adaptability of Australia’s students, parents and carers, teachers and school
leaders.

Impact on AITSL’s work
The COVID-19 pandemic had a range of impacts on the work AITSL was delivering and its
functions. An overview of these follows.

Delivery of Work Plan
The impact of COVID-19 was unequal across Australia - for example, with varying duration and
frequency of periods where AITSL staff and stakeholders were unable to work from their usual
work location, limitations on the viability of national meetings and ability to travel within and
between jurisdictions, and delivery of schooling via remote and/or online learning.
This created differentiated impacts and degrees of significance across different components of
AITSL’s Work Plan in 2020. As a result, there were a number of activities AITSL was not able to
deliver at the height of the pandemic, or which necessitated deferral of the delivery of some Work
Plan commitments, including:
   •       on-site filming for resource development
   •       convening initial teacher education accreditation panels
   •   Highly Accomplished and Lead teacher (HALT) Summit which had been scheduled to take
       place in May 2020 (cancelled).
   •   stakeholder consultation opportunities e.g. case study interviews and workshops with the
       profession, as some employers requested no contact with schools.

In addition, at the request of the Education Council (now the Education Ministers Meeting), several
pieces of work were deferred to later in the year to allow governments to focus on supporting
schools, school leaders, teachers and students during this unprecedented time.

On the whole, AITSL was able to effectively pivot to work virtually by moving meetings and
stakeholder consultation to online platforms.




                                                                                             Page 3 of 6
Teacher skilled migration applications
AITSL is gazetted as the skills assessing authority for individuals wishing to migrate to Australia
under one of eight teaching occupations through the skilled migration program. AITSL saw little
impact on application numbers for international teachers wishing to apply for a skills assessment to
support a skilled migration visa.

Prior to COVID-19, AITSL assessed an average of 1,500 applications each year from international
teachers wishing to migrate under this visa program. In the 2020 and 2021 calendar years, AITSL
assessed 1,378 and 1,933 applications, respectively. There has, however, been an increase of
approximately 65% on pre-pandemic application numbers since 2022, with around 3,000
applications received in the 2022 calendar year.

ITE and professional experience
Initial teacher education (ITE) programs are qualifications accredited by each state and territory
teacher regulatory authority (TRA) which prepare individuals to register and work as a teacher in
Australia. All ITE programs include professional experience placements (sometimes referred to as
practicum or practical experience) in schools or early childhood settings.

AITSL worked closely with TRAs to understand the impact of COVID-19 on the delivery of ITE
including professional experience placements. Victoria and New South Wales experienced the
most significant impacts. To lessen the effect of these impacts, AITSL received notification of
changes to ITE accreditation processes, professional experience placements, as well as other
components of ITE programs including teaching performance assessments (TPAs) and the
completion of the Literacy and Numeracy Test for Initial Teacher Education Students (LANTITE)
from TRAs in Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, and the Northern Territory.

The most common changes were:
   •       out of cycle approval to program changes to accommodate for COVID-19 (QLD, NT, WA)
   •       extensions to accreditation timeframes (WA and VIC)
   •   reduction in total professional experience to 45 days across all ITE programs (QLD, VIC
       and WA)
   •   the introduction (and expansion in QLD) of the ability to complete professional experience
       placement days online (VIC, WA, QLD, NSW on a case-by-case basis)
   •   strengthening guidelines to support students in ITE programs completing their programs
       while they are employed as teachers.

The majority of these changes applied to programs in 2020 only, except in Victoria which extended
changes to the ITE accreditation process and requirements into 2021.

AITSL’s response to support teachers and school leaders
AITSL recognised at the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic that teachers and school leaders
experienced information overload and had minimal time to engage with new materials. Instead of
compounding this problem, AITSL curated existing resources and developed new ones that
supported teachers and school leaders. These were relevant and released at the point of need.
The extensive collection of resources was made available on an   st an Teacher F isponse
page on the AITSL website.


                                                                                          Page 4 of 6
Examples of the resources AITSL developed include:
   •       Two ‘Spotlight’ evidence summary publications:
           o   What works in online/distance teaching and learning' (viewed over 144,000 times)
           o                                                      (viewed over 79,000 times).
   •   A Teacher Resource Hub on the AITSL website provided access to relevant resources from
       a variety of sources. This Hub has now been decommissioned and had over 26,000 users
       during the period it was in operation.
   •   A series of short videos in which education experts discuss key issues that arose during the
       pandemic, teacher and student wellbeing, and teaching practices that are important in
       remote learning.

In addition, AITSL created the      chers   opo g ackers Facebook group. This is a dedicated
Facebook group for teachers and school leaders to ask questions, share what works (and what
doesn’t), and provide support to each other. The purpose of this page was to provide a platform on
which teachers could help teachers by supporting each other and sharing their expertise. The
Facebook group is still live today and has 10,670 members.

Data on the impact of COVID-19 on the teacher workforce
Workload and career intentions
The Austra                                   D) initiative provides robust insights into the short
and long-term impact on the teacher workforce which coincided with COVID-19.

The data shows that some changes experienced during 2020, such as reduced face-to-face
teaching hours (including online teaching), had returned to pre-pandemic levels by 2021. Other
changes, such as reduced time spent on administrative tasks by classroom teachers during 2020,
quickly returned to pre-pandemic levels in 2021, before continuing to increase post-pandemic.

Casual relief teacher (CRT) roles are common in the lead up to ultimately retiring from the
profession; and in 2019, 43% of CRTs had 30 or more years of experience. Across 2020 and
2021, there was an increase in the proportion of CRTs who were approaching retirement, reaching
50% in 2021. In 2022, pre-pandemic patterns returned. This suggests that COVID-19 may have
temporarily delayed retirement for some teachers, masking the extent of workforce challenges over
this period.

During 2020, intentions to leave the profession before retirement were at their lowest point since
2018 (21%), potentially due to the uncertainty of the pandemic. Since this time, intentions to leave
the profession before retirement have steadily increased to 34% (as of 2022). There were no
changes to the reasons provided by teachers who indicated they intent to leave the profession,
with workload and cooping remaining the most often given reason.

Student behaviour and classroom management
Data in the ATWD also reflects a considerable increase in the amount of time that teachers and
leaders spend on student support and supervision, as well as addressing wellbeing and
behavioural issues. In 2021, the proportion of classroom teachers reporting that they spent more
than 10 hours per week counselling or supervising students increased by 21 percentage points (to
30%), and this has continued post-pandemic.


                                                                                           Page 5 of 6
Anecdotally, key stakeholders attribute much of this growth to an increase in absenteeism,
classroom disruption or poor behaviour by students, due to their social and emotional development
having been affected by extended periods of learning from home during the COVID-19 pandemic.

As outlined in lmpr<
                   and Fairer Education System, data from the Australian Curriculum, Assessment
and Reporting Authority (ACARA) indicates that student attendance levels declined from 73.1% in
2019 to 71.2% in 2021 and dropped considerably to 49.9% in 2022.

Additionally,                       on Australia’s performance in the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA)
testing and associated surveys shows that following the pandemic, many Australian students study
mathematics in a disciplinary climate that is not favourable to learning. In 2022:

   •   approximately 25% of students reported that they cannot work well in most or all lessons
       (OECD average: 23%)
   •       33% of students reported they do not listen to what the teacher says (OECD average: 30%)
   •   40% of students reported they get distracted using digital devices (OECD average: 30%),
       and 37% reported being distracted by other students who are using digital devices (OECD
       average: 25%).

To support teachers in addressing these issues, the Australian Education Research Organisation
(AERO) has recently released                                     for teachers, commissioned by
the Australian Government through its Engaged Ciassrooms initiative.

Further information
Thank you for the invitation to provide a submission to this inquiry. Please do not hesitate to
contact me via email to                    should you require further information.

Yours sincerely,




Mark Grant psm
Chief Executive Officer




                                                                                            Page 6 of 6
