                                                 SUBMISSION

I thank you for the opportunity to make this submission concerning the roles and responsibilities of
the Federal Government in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic. I make this submission as a private
citizen but it is relevant to my submission that my academic and professional qualifications are in law.
I have had a 28 year career as a teacher and researcher in law and have held academic positions at
various universities, notably the University of Queensland and the Australian National University. In
making this submission, I draw on the knowledge I have acquired as a legal scholar but I do not
represent any institution and the opinions expressed herein are my own.

The government response to the Covid-19 pandemic has been, in my opinion, the most significant
failure in Australian public policy and public administration in my lifetime. The most serious failures
were those of state and territory governments, namely the unilateral, arbitrary and inconsistent
imposition of a range of 'restrictions', including border closures, stay at home orders (known as
'lockdowns'), face mask requirements and vaccination requirements. More often than not, these
restrictions were imposed without any apparent evidence of their efficacy in controlling the
transmission of the Sars-Cov-2 virus and without making any scientific advice publicly available. These
restrictions were destructive of civil liberties, livelihoods, education and the general well-being of
large sections of the Australian population. The public welfare is about much more than the number
of people who are infected with a particular virus at any particular time. Many of the measures were
disproportionate to the threat to public health. The Sars-Cov-2 virus, while highly transmissible, had
an infection fatality rate of significantly less than 1% and the majority of fatalities were among elderly
people with significant co-morbidities.1 While the core failure was that of state and territory
governments, there are ways in which the Federal Government could have exercised its powers to
curb the worst actions of state and territory governments. That is the focus of my submission.

The Federal Parliament has, under section 51(i) of the Constitution (Cth), power to legislate in respect
of 'trade and commerce with other countries, and among the States'. The Federal Parliament could
have legislated, had there been the political will to do so, to impose a uniform approach to closure of
state and territory borders across the country based on transparent criteria. The failure of the Federal
Parliament to do so left the way open for panicked state and territory governments to impose their
own rules based on their perceived political interests. This resulted in disruption to commerce and the
separation of families at very short notice and in ways that were not readily predictable. The free
movement of goods and persons across state and territory borders is one of the foundational
principles of Australian federalism. It should not have been as easily compromised as it was.

Vaccination 'mandates' were perhaps the most egregious and disproportionate of all of the measures
imposed by state and territory governments. No consistent evidence has been presented that the
vaccines had a significant impact on transmission of Sars-Cov-2. Nevertheless, young and healthy
people who were not at risk of serious illness from Sars-Cov-2 infection were effectively coerced into
being vaccinated in the fear that they would lose their employment or social life if they refused
vaccination. Australia is a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 7 of
the Convention states as follows:

         No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
         punishment. In particular, no one shall be subjected without his free consent to medical
         or scientific experimentation.




1 Australian Bureau of Statistics, Covid-19 Mortality in Australia, Deaths registered to 31 January 2022 COVID-
19 Mortality in Australia, Deaths registered to 31 January 2022 | Australian Bureau of Statistics (abs.gov.au)
                                                    2


The DNA and mRNA products marketed as Covid-19 vaccinations were examples of novel vaccine
technologies that had not previously been used at such a large scale. The measures taken were
effectively a medical experiment in which many people were effectively coerced to participate. Under
section 51(xxix) of the Constitution (Cth), the Federal Parliament has legislative power with respect to
'external affairs', which includes legislating to implement the terms of treaties and international
conventions to which Australia is a party. Such legislation was, in fact, presented in the Senate but
failed to pass because of an apparent lack of political will on the part of the major political parties to
override the state and territory imposed vaccination mandates. This was a serious failure on the part
of the Federal Parliament to consider and act upon its human rights obligations.



Darryn Jensen B Com, LLB (Hons), LLM, PhD UQ
