Submission and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

SWITCH Research Group

Social Work Innovation, Transformation and Collaboration in Health (SWITCH) Research
Group, Monash University, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, would like to
share:

•     Broader health supports for people impacted by CO VID-19 and/or
      lockdowns (for example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and
      access to screening and other preventive health measures).

The COVID-19 pandemic increased the level and complexity of support provided by mental health
family carers. The threshold for entry for hospital admissions appeared higher than pre-COVID, with
the person in distress reporting a number of times to emergency departments but being discharged
home, even when they expressed thoughts of suicide. The closure and restrictions on services led
to family, carers and supporters needing to provide extra hours and at times constant support,
including maintaining the safety of the consumer through monitoring both emotional and physical
needs, including maintaining 24-hour watch to prevent suicide. At times this was provided by lone
carers who were unable to get the support from family members because of restrictions.

              When the person you care for is at extreme risk, it is already 24/7, then to have
            cancellation without notice of carefully negotiated supports puts intolerable strain
                       on you. I have had to reduce my working hours (and income).

Many families spoke of the challenges of providing support within community and service
restrictions and across borders. The impact of these burdens arising through systemic failures led to
isolation, feelings of being overwhelmed, higher adverse mental health challenges, physical and
emotional distress and reported thoughts of suicide by mental health family carers. More than 1 in 4
carers surveyed experienced suicidal thoughts within the context of excessive demand, isolation,
feeling helpless and powerless to help the supported person, and being in close contact with a loved
one who was distressed, threatening or themselves suicidal. Young people who provide support
spoke of isolation from friends and lower amounts of support from peers and academic
professionals influenced their lacking energy, motivation and general feelings of interest in living.
    Mechanism for future responses
Australian Governments to
        •    fund diverse modalities of consultations and therapeutic interventions to enable mental
             health consumer and family carer choice, inclusive of but not defaulting to telehealth,
        •    create more considered access to services, to enable support of highly distressed people
             with mental health challenges - through family visitation, including within forensic settings,
        •    fund available and responsive mental health carer respite to ensure carer workload does
             not overwhelm family members so they are able to protect their own mental health and
             remain in paid work,
        •    recognise the impact of providing long-term and acute mental health care on the
             psychosocial wellbeing of family carers, to establish suicide prevention services responsive
             to family members experiencing acute and/or cumulative stress and distress.




                                                                                                              1
•     Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher
      education, housing and homelessness measures, family and domestic
      violence measures in areas of Commonwealth Government responsibility).

There was an increase in the experiences of domestic violence during the pandemic, with more than
1 in 5 carers feeling unsafe, afraid, controlled, or were physically harmed, by the person they
support. However, family carers (12.9%) also reported incidences of domestic violence before the
pandemic. Respondents reported both experiences of domestic violence for themselves and also for
the people they supported. Incidences included feeling controlled by the person they supported
through threats of suicide or from behaviours associated with mental health challenges such as
during periods of delusions and distress. Supporting someone experiencing delusions and distress in
close quarters during lockdowns was highly distressing for carers, as well as being distressing for the
person themselves.

            The hospital services had closed the mental health rehab, and the in patients was
           full, and my very ill son needed to be put in, but they didn't have room. This put me
                                      in danger, and was very stressful.

            More clinicians to be aware of how subtle family violence can look from the outside.
            I have had a clinician tell me that "name calling" and "being rude" is not grounds for
           family violence-look... I would love to see a more holistic approach to family violence
                            and have services more accessible to victim survivors.

    Mechanism for future responses
Australian governments to
   • recognise the risk inherent in providing long-term and acute mental health care on family
         carers, to establish domestic violence services tailored and responsive to family members
         experiencing acute and/or cumulative risk and violence,
       •     provide national guidance and co-ordination for innovation across all states in
             administration and guardianship as it relates to mental health carers concerned about the
             safety of loved ones in their absence or upon their death.

•     Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
      populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status,
      geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and
      communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
      communities).

The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted prior areas of Mental Health systemic support that had been
missing and also the loss of services that had been of benefit to the mental health consumers and
family carers and supporters. Mental health family carers are a vulnerable group, especially during
periods of disasters, including pandemics. Family spoke of being overwhelmed, 'burned out' and of
severe and persistent fatigue, which led to them feeling they had lost the ability to support -

             I have become an anxious person, always on the alert, trying to look out for him,
            keep him safe and ensuring his needs are met. Feel exhausted, but fail to get sleep,
                          sometimes even guilty that my empathy is drying out.




                                                                                                         2
The following recommendations have been developed through the voices and experiences
of families which have been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, but also speak
of difficulties experienced through services not engaging with them or lack of systemic
support in helping mental health family carers to maintain a quality of life within their family
and society/community.

Mechanism for future responses
Australian governments to
   • recognise the unpaid work and its impact on mental health family carers when services are
         inadequate or unable to respond to the needs of mental health consumers,
   • create local and regional mobile centres for family assistance, to respond to current and
        future major disasters (pandemics, fires, floods, and drought),
   • establish funded family-carer collaborative hubs to foster, mentor and disseminate family
         leadership in service responsiveness, redesign, evaluation, research and future planning.


Please refer to:

Petrakis, M. and Walters, C. (2022). Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19 in
Australia: Final report for the National Mental Health Commission from the NMHCCF as part of the
Pandemic Grants for Priority Groups. Melbourne: SWITCH Research Group, Monash University.




Read the summary of the report here: Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19
in Australia (Summary)

(2-page infographic)

Read the full report here: Mental Health Family Carer Experiences of COVID-19 in Australia
Final Report

(69 pages)


Sincerely,

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR MELISSA PETRAKIS
Group Director, Social Work Innovation, Transformation and Collaboration in Health (SWITCH)
Research Group
https://www.monash.edu/medicine/spahc/research/switch-research-flroup
Social Work, Monash University, Australia
Editorial Board Member for:
* Research on Social Work Practice (RSWP)
* Asia Pacific Journal of Social Work and Development (APJSWD)

Contact me at:



T

                                                                                                     3
