                                                                                                   AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                   ALUMINIUM
                                                                                                   COUNCIL LTD

                                                                                                  Level 1,
                                                                                                  18 National Circuit
                                                                                                  Barton ACT 2600
                                                                                                  Ph: 02 6267 1800
                                                                                                 info@aluminium.orK.au

COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
PO Box 6021
https://www.pmc.gov.au/covicl-19-response-inquirY/consultation

15 December 2023



Dear Chair

        Re: COVID-19 Response Inquiry
The Australian Aluminium Council (the Council) represents Australia's bauxite mining, alumina refining, aluminium
smelting and downstream processing industries.

The Council welcomes the opportunity to provide input to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry and will particularly focus
on support for industry and businesses - including responding to supply chain and transport issues, addressing
labour shortages, and support for specific industries. The Council also believes there is an opportunity to learn from
the responses, not only to make improvements in responding to future pandemics, but which have broader
application in the development of Government policy. In particular, the Council believes there are opportunities to
better leverage existing vertical integration and domestic supply chains within the industry and opportunities for
Australia to strengthen its domestic capabilities.

Australia's strategic advantage - integrated domestic supply chain
Aluminium is one of the commodities most widely used in the global transition to a clean energy future1. It is also
recognised for its importance to both economic development and low emissions transition. Aluminium use is highly
correlated with GDP so, as countries urbanise, per capita use of aluminium increases.

The aluminium industry has been operating in Australia since 1955, and over the decades has been a significant
contributor to the nation's economy. It includes six bauxite mines which collectively produce over 100 Mt per
annum, making Australia the world's largest producer of bauxite. Australia is the world's largest exporter of alumina
with six alumina refineries producing around 20 Mt per annum. Australia is the seventh largest producer of
aluminium, with four aluminium smelters. Additional downstream processing industries include more than 20
extrusion presses, production of metal powders and aluminium coatings. Aluminium is Australia's highest earning
manufacturing export. The industry directly employs more than 19,000 people, including 6,600 full-time-equivalent
contractors. It also indirectly supports around 60,000 families, predominantly in regional Australia. As such, the
upstream industry should be considered as three processes which each have their own globally significant standing.
Australia's aluminium industry is a key employer and contributor in the communities in which we operate.

Within the regions in which the industry operates, there is not only high-quality direct employment at mines,
refineries, smelters and extruders, but also opportunities for local manufacturers to grow where the aluminium



1 https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/extractiveindustries/brief/climate-smart-mining-minerals-for-climate-action


      Australian Aluminium Council                                                                       Page 1 of 3
industry provides a baseline of work. For example, Keppel Prince2 in Portland began in 1968 specialising in the
aluminium and forestry industries. While maintaining a long-term maintenance and full-service partnership with
Portland Aluminium Smelter since 1986, for the last twenty years Keppel Prince have also expanded to be at the
forefront of renewable energy production. This regional capability with associated infrastructure underpinned by
the aluminium industry is an important enabler for low emissions technology development and manufacture.

The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the importance of manufacturing domestically, supporting a productive
and resilient economy. The COVID crisis demonstrated the advantages of not only the ability to value add within an
almost exclusively domestic supply chain, but also the importance of local industry which provides the underpinning
market for our dependent contracting and manufacturing sector. This sector was able to pivot to meet rapidly
changing domestic needs, such as using onsite laboratories to manufacture sanitiser, using 3D printing capabilities
to manufacture face shields and give instruction to others on how to do the same and provide Australian aluminium
of suitable standard to be used in ventilators.

COVID Specific Supply Chain Learnings
The sector was impacted by border delays during the crisis. While this is, to an extent, to be expected in a black
swan event, the lack of preparedness for a crisis and risk-based decision making in development of response
protocols exacerbated delays and increased costs (e.g., demurrage at ports).

In the downstream sector, COVID- 19 interrupted import supply chains for customers who previously sourced
materials internationally. This, combined with significant disruption in shipping logistics, meant many companies
with international supply chains needed to look for local solutions. Australian aluminium extruders were able to
step into the breach to avoid more significant impacts in other sectors, such as building and construction (including
residential, commercial and industrial) by replacing imports with domestic production. For example, solar, rail,
window and door products reverted to Australian-based production to keep their businesses and customers
supplied. This also applied across critical market segments including defence, heavy transport, ship building,
medical equipment, medical, energy and infrastructure projects. A strong domestic aluminium extrusion sector
helps ensure that broader economic activity is able to continue in times of national crisis like COVID-19.

The Australian extrusion market in total is estimated at around 210 kt, of which around 90 kt is imported3. While
Australia exports the majority of the primary aluminium it produces, around 120 kt of it is further manufactured
domestically into extrusions. This is an important market for billet from Australian smelters. Every tonne of
imported extrusion material impacts on Australian smelters and, ultimately, their cash margin. Australia's nine
extruders have a nameplate capacity of 150 kt, however currently around 30kt is idled. Support for the Australian
aluminium manufacturing sector could see a growth in domestic production; and more jobs for Australians.

It is important to recognise Australia's manufacturing sector is facing intense near-term challenges securing and
maintaining internationally competitive gas and electricity contracts, mounting inflationary pressures and labour
shortages. The COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical issues have underscored the importance of manufacturing
domestically, both in terms of economic and employment contribution, supporting a productive and resilient
economy, and addressing supply chain challenges. This has also demonstrated the advantages of, not only the
ability to value add within an almost exclusively domestic aluminium supply chain, but also the importance of local
industry which provides the underpinning market for our dependent contracting and manufacturing sector. The
Council believes a review of Australia's trade remedies framework, particularly the Anti-dumping area, is required
to ensure aluminium extrusions are not imported at dumped pricing levels which cause material injury to the value­
add Australian aluminium extrusion industry. A better framework is required to ensure free and fair trade to enable
industry growth.




2 http://www.keppelprince.com/default.asp?id=l,3,0,3
3 https://aluminium.org.au/australian-industrv/statistics-trade/


       Australian Aluminium Council                                                                  Page 2 of 3
Risks in industry supply chains
The aluminium industry is committed to strong local content, local procurement and local participation. However,
supply chains must also be competitive, including for raw material supplies. Supply chains for the alumina refineries,
aluminium smelters and downstream processors are highly specialised. Industry policy needs to recognise the range
of critical inputs required to sustain the aluminium value chain, so that strategic risks can be assessed and mitigated.
Critical value chains should be mapped as part of industry policy development, so issues can be identified in advance
of a future crisis.

The strong existing vertically integrated aluminium industry, with a regional manufacturing base in Australia,
enables existing industry to be leveraged to create new manufacturing opportunities. Strengthening our national
manufacturing capabilities now will put Australia in the strongest possible position to meet these future forecasts
for not only traditional commodities such as bauxite, alumina and aluminium, but also other emerging aluminium
related commodities like high purity alumina (HPA), aluminium fluoride, aluminium alloys and aluminium salts.

While the majority of Australia's aluminium supply chain is vertically integrated, like many manufacturing
processes, it relies on critical inputs including a range of feed materials, which are needed to sustain this value
chain. An example is aluminium fluoride, which is essential for aluminium smelting. It is analogous to AdBlue4 for
diesel. No aluminium fluoride is produced in Australia, so Australian aluminium smelters are entirely reliant on
imported aluminium fluoride. In fact, Australia is the largest producer of primary aluminium metal that does not
produce any aluminium fluoride.

ABx subsidiary ALCORE Limited (Alcore) is proposing to builda^^^^Baluminium smelter bath recycling plant in
 Bell Bay, Tasmania. The plant is proposed to transform                    jer year of aluminium smelter bath into
aluminium fluoride. The potential to establish domestic aluminium fluoride production will help protect the
aluminium industry from supply chain disruption and increase Australia's manufacturing resilience and capability.
This increase in the security of supply for Australian aluminium smelters will also create highly skilled manufacturing
jobs, and the production of aluminium fluoride from aluminium smelter bath is an excellent illustration of the
circular economy.

.obs and Skills
Australia's existing aluminium industry is already predominantly located in regional Australia. The majority of the
more than 19,000 employees live in the regions in which they work and there is often intergenerational
employment at sites. There are already workforce and skills shortage across the industry and this challenge is
exacerbated in regional areas.

Conclusii
Aluminium is part of a clean energy future and Australia has a central role to play in its global supply and
transformation. Australia's natural and competitive strengths support the development of strategically important
industries and supply chains. The Council also believes there is an opportunity to learn from the Covid-19 responses,
not only to make improvements in responding to future pandemics, but which have broader application in the
development of Government policy.

The Council would be happy to provide additional information on any issues raised in this submission.
Kind regards,




Marghanita Johnson
Chief Executive Officer
Australian Aluminium Council
M +61



4 https://minister.dcceew.gov.au/bowen/media-releases/securing-supply-diesel-exhaust-fluid-keep-australia-moving


      Australian Aluminium Council                                                                     Page 3 of 3
