Merrilyn Grant - On behalf of Timothy Francis Grant (deceased)

Introduction:
I have prepared this submission on behalf of my late husband who had a           and died 6 weeks after his
first AstraZeneca vaccination (May 19, 2021). My husband was in remission from cancer when he had his
first AstraZeneca vaccination two weeks before the government recommended that people under 60 years
of age have an alternative vaccination. He was on blood thinners and signed a form at the GP's identifying
this. He was given the vaccination anyway. He had symptoms straight away - including headaches,
swollen thyroid glands and a dramatic drop in his platelet count. He visited the doctors and emergency
with these symptoms for 5 weeks, until his death but medical personal were not informed enough about
the risks to be worried enough about his symptoms and put him on stroke alert.

Key Points:
   - GP's were not knowledgeable enough about the vaccination and the risks involved when Tim had
       his vaccination. Why did the GP give Tim this vaccination when he was on blood thinners?
   - GP's were given a limited criteria for people to get exemptions to covid vaccination, (ie anaphylaxis)
   - GP's were under extraordinary pressure to give vaccinations regardless of patient history and were
       punished with deregistration for refusing to do so.
   - The criteria for a COVID vaccine related death at the time was: 4 weeks post vaccination, ELSA Test,
       Low Platelets and High D-Dimer. Tim's ELSA test was not definitive because the machine to do this
       test at^^^^^Pathology- Melbourne is old and unreliable. His blood test should have had to have
       gone to Sydney for a correct test and this was not done. The week 4 criteria was extended to 6
       weeks the day after Tim's death and has been increased again since. Tim had high D-Dimers and
       showed falling platelets over a 6 week period post vaccination.
   - Reporting to TGA - the only response I got was a case number. TGA is largely funded by
       pharmaceutical companies and I don't believe this constitutes a safe and unbiased organisation for
       Australians to trust.
   - Reporting to SaefVic - These people were helpful at first and said they would send Tim's blood to
       Sydney for testing and to give 5 week for the results. However they never sent his blood and
       refused to discuss this with me further. When I requested notes on their investigation of Tim's
       death, they refused and they took back their offer of counselling for me. My lawyer had to go to
       freedom of information to get these notes and they revealed no real investigation took place.
       Another body set up to keep Victorians safe which did not do it's job.
   -        COVID Vaccination Compensation Scheme:
       1.            This is impossible for anyone to successfully claim for death without a lawyer.
       2. GP's are scared to complete the form and Tim's GP made a mark between the YES and NO box -
            unprepared to commit - even after a full report from a legal medical doctor found that Tim's
            death was a result of the AstraZeneca vaccination.
       3. Submissions for compensation are submitted to non medical people who are judging from a
            strict criteria when every human body is individual and the criteria for a vaccine related death is
            still evolving and for AstraZeneca has stopped evolving because it is no longer used for safety
            reasons.
       4. Submissions which get past the first step are then forwarded to TGA doctors for further judging
            (Once again TGA doctors could not be considered impartial)
       5. The compensation payment for death is insulting would not even cover the average family's
            mortgage.
       6. While the scheme is so difficult to navigate only people who can afford lawyers will be
            successful in death claims. This is costly and you cannot claim your lawyers costs back from the
            scheme.
       7.            For me this process is very slow has been ongoing for two years now
   -   Internationally, other countries are much more open to compensation and transparent with finding
       than Australia.
   -   How come countries who couldn't afford the vaccinations have the same COVID related death
       results as Australia and much lover unexplained deaths for that period than Australia?
   -   The media scare campaign by the Government to force people to get vaccinated shamefully made
       people feel they were going to cause others to die if they didn't get vaccinated. This has not been
       proved to be true and in fact many of the claims in these campaigns have been proven false.
   -   Why is the Australian Media unprepared to write about the facts of the roll out and consequences
       of the COVID Vaccinations?

For the Future:
           1. Never rush the implementation of a vaccination again.
           2. Never give indemnity to pharmaceutical companies. If they request this then it is a sure sign
                that the vaccine is not ready.
           3. Give GP's freedom, without criteria, on whether it is safe to vaccinate individual patients.
               They have each person's medical records and are in the best position to judge without
                repercussion to their practice. This is what they are trained for.
           4. Set up a no blame compensation scheme to cover all vaccinations where people have
                experienced side effects or death in Australia and compensate people fairly.
           5. The TGA should be fully funded by the Australian Government to be truly independent.
           6. All Pathology labs should have the best possible testing equipment.
           7. Never produce an advertising campaign that pits Australians against one another for any
                reason again. Advertising should only contain TRUE facts and in the case of COVID
                Vaccination you had no true facts to form a campaign.

   Timeline Leading to Tim's Death:
   Please see attached document.

In Summary:
    It is not my job to provide terms of reference and evidence to your committee. Indeed the restrictions
    you have placed on the length of submissions prohibits this. You are being paid and you should seek
    your own evidence from the many sources available around the world to seek your own facts. Do your
    research and protect all Australians in the future.
