Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry




15 December 2023




ndis.gov.au



 ndis1


The National Disability Insurance Agency acknowledges that for some National
Disability Insurance Scheme participants, discussions about COVID-19 can be
distressing. We also acknowledge that the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant
impact on participants.

Ensuring the wellbeing, safety and continuity of supports for participants is of utmost
importance to the Agency. Participants who are impacted by COVID-19 and require
support should contact the Agency’s National Contact Centre on 1800 800 110.
    1.         Foreword
The National Disability Insurance Agency (NDIA) appreciates the opportunity to provide a
submission in line with the Terms of Reference to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry. The
Department of Social Services’ (DSS) submission will provide a broad overview of the social
services portfolio COVID-19 measures, which also provided a range of supports for National
Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) participants. The NDlA’s submission specifies the
NDlA’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, presenting the operational and funding
measures implemented by the NDIA, in addition to certain portfolio measures implemented
by DSS. This submission therefore should be read in conjunction with the submission from
DSS.


   2.          About the NDIA and NDIS
The NDIA is the agency responsible for administering the NDIS in line with the National
Disability Insurance Scheme Act 2013 (Cth).

As of 30 September 2023, the NDIS is supporting 631,529 participants, with a further 19,454
children being supported via the Early Childhood Approach. This includes 32,973
participants living in Supported Independent Living (SIL) arrangements, 23,277 participants
with Specialised Disability Accommodation, and 1,565 younger people in residential aged
care settings. More information is available via the NDlA’s Quarterly Report to Disability
        r .

The NDIA has more than 13,690 staff including APS, contractors, and outsourced workers.
The NDlA’s Partners in the Community include Local Area Coordinators and Early Childhood
Partners, and the NDIA engage with networks of 200 community-based Connectors reaching
more than 300 remote communities.


   3.          Current status of COVID-19 supports
The NDIA maintains targeted COVID-19 measures to address the needs and continuity of
safe practices and services for NDIS participants and NDIS providers, in acknowledgement
of the ongoing impacts of the pandemic. In July 2023, the NDIA met with its Participant
Reference Group (PRG) to discuss access to COVID-19 vaccines and supports, and test
knowledge of COVID-19 supports available to them via the NDIS.
Through PRG, the NDIA heard that COVID-19 is still a concern for many NDIS participants,
that participants wanted more information about the supports available to them, and to better
understand COVID-19 vaccination advice from the Australian Technical Advisory Group on
Immunisation (ATAGI).
The PRG’s advice has informed the NDlA’s ongoing approach to COVID-19 measures. The
NDIA continues to distribute accessible information about COVID-19 to participants and has
increased engagement with providers to encourage ongoing discussions to support
participants to get vaccinated and maintain critical services.




ndis.gov.au                           December 2' 23                                        2
The COVID-19 vaccination enabling payments are available to help participants to receive
vaccinations, and the NDIA in collaboration with DSS and DoHAC remain focused on
removing barriers to supports and services to mitigate COVID-19 risk.
Participants are encouraged to use their plans flexibly to prevent or manage COVID-19
impacts, including the purchase of Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) and Personal Protective
Equipment (PPE) where participants receive close personal supports - a support the PRG
referenced as highly important.
The NDIA continues to work with governments, states, and territories to improve outcomes
for people with disability and to keep NDIS participants safe from COVID-19. Further
information about collaboration across governments is available in Appendix A.

An estimated 23% of participants over the age of 18 years have received a 2023 vaccine in
accordance with Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) February
2023 advice. Due to mandatory infection reporting changes and developing data systems it
has not been possible to identify participants eligible for vaccination and targeted supports.

3.1    Governance
In March 2020, following the meeting of the Council of Australians Governments, the NDIA
introduced targeted measures to reduce the disproportionate impact COVID-19 has on NDIS
participants and more broadly people with disability. The NDIA COVID-19 measures are
consistent with advice of the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) and
DoHAC and the NDIA regularly reviews its measures to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
A range of public health mandates were announced by state and territory governments
throughout the course of the pandemic impacting service delivery for NDIS participants such
as social distancing, isolation and quarantine requirements. Although many of these
mandates have ceased, the NDlA’s measures such as meal preparation and delivery and
plan flexibility remain to increase opportunity for participant social and community
participation and minimise disruptions to supports and services. A list of measures is at
Appendix B.
The NDlA’s COVID-19 responses are primarily coordinated through the COVID-19 Portfolio
Taskforce (the Taskforce), led by DSS and encompassing DoHAC and the NDIS Quality and
Safeguards Commission (NDIS QSC), to address specific COVID-19 responses for people
with disability. State and territory governments continue to participate in regular bi-lateral
meetings with the Taskforce. In addition, a Provider Peaks COVID-19 meeting monitors
workforce issues and provides information directly to the disability workforce sector.

In addition, the NDIA has well established memberships across various advisory bodies,
including the Disability Advisory Committee (DAC), established in April 2020 and led by
DoHAC, reporting directly to the AHPPC. Relationships with the Australia Bureau of
Statistics (ABS), Services Australia, state and territory governments and associated working
groups support data sharing arrangements between governments peaks. The NDIA also
provided data to DSS to allow regular reporting of COVID-19 infections in disability
accommodation settings, with this information provided to DoHAC and National Cabinet via
DSS.


ndis.gov.au                            December 2' 23                                            3
Through its participation in DAC, the NDIA assisted in developing the Management and
Operational Plan for People with Disability.

3.2    Broader health supports for NDIS participants
COVID-19 has a greater impact on people with disability due to a range of factors including
increased susceptibility to severe illness and disease, difficulty in implementing social
distancing recommendations, barriers to accessing supports and inaccessible public health
information. University of Melbourne research - conducted in 2020 in partnership with the
NDIA (Appendix C) - found that some services were closed or suspended leaving
participants without support. This report showed 28% of the 1,672 participants surveyed had
at least one allied health support cancelled. Findings are further explored via the NDlA’s
summary report at Appendix D.
The first tranche of the NDIA measures in March 2020 boosted existing supports and
services to reduce instances of COVID-19 disruptions for participants and providers.
Planning meetings were moved online or via telephone, and high-risk participants were
proactively contacted. New support items for Support Coordination allowed participants to
use Core or Capacity Building Support budgets for support coordination, helping to engage
essential services.
The rapid response required to COVID-19 left some systems underprepared and ill-equipped
to support NDIS participants’ needs. To support participants for priority vaccine distribution,
the NDIA introduced enabling vaccination payments for providers, worked with provider
peaks to implement in-reach vaccination services, and coordinated with DoHAC to identify
Younger People in Residential Aged Care (YPIRAC). Enabling vaccination payments were
extended in December 2020, 4ecognizing the importance of removing barriers to participant
vaccinations. The NDIA continues to work with DoHAC to increase availability of in-reach
services, and vaccination sensory clinics to increase participant vaccine opportunities.
Since their introduction, the NDIA COVID-19 response measures continue to encourage
eligible participants to use plan funds flexibly for support such as one-off deep cleans where
a support worker attends their home and tests positive to COVID-19, and meal preparation
and delivery services for participants who usually have a support worker help them prepare
meals at home or help with grocery shopping, but cannot due to COVID-19.
The NDIA uses its communication pathways to share the latest COVID-19 health and
disability advice, and supports and participates in health information campaigns and working
groups to keep NDIS participants informed of the latest health advice. Throughout the
pandemic, the NDIA has worked with DoHAC to ensure COVID-19 vaccination and health
advice has been available in Easy Read, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander specific
advice, and translations to various other languages to support Culturally and Linguistically
Diverse communities.




ndis.gov.au                            December 2' 23                                        4
3.3    Support for industry and businesses
In March 2020, the NDIA announced financial assistance to NDIS providers, to support
financial viability and assist in retaining staff. This allowed providers to claim a one-month
advance payment based on monthly average supports (providing immediate cash flow
relief), a 10 per cent COVID-19 loading added to price limits for certain supports, as well as
temporary adjustments to service cancellation pricing arrangements.
The NDIA supported providers experiencing workforce disruptions to maintain their services
through a single provider of workforce support, Genii until 31 January 2023. Where
deployment of supplementary workforce was deemed to be warranted via Genii triage,
Genii coordinated with a network of providers in each State and Territory to source options
for providers in need. The NDIA resolved 75% of all requests for workforce supports through
remote coaching and support, without the need for further interventions.
In addition, in preparation for winter 2022, the NDIA worked with IPA recruitment, a
subsidiary of Genii, to establish the Winter Relief Workforce. This comprised retired
disability workers and other qualified workers to provide a stand-up workforce in the event of
catastrophic workforce shortage.
The Taskforce also worked with Aspen Medical to deliver a Clinical First Response, to
ensure infection control procedures, PPE and nursing supports were in place for residents
and workers in the event of a COVID-19 outbreak in group home settings. Positively,
providers were able to appropriately manage outbreaks without additional support from the
Clinical First Response team and Aspen Medical instead delivered a series of webinars to
deliver online training and advice on infection management and outbreak control. These
measures provided the sector with confidence of available supports and showed these could
be stood up in the event of a future pandemics.
The NDIA continues to offer Additional Support Payments to eligible SIL providers to
recognise the increased costs associated in keeping participants safe during COVID-19
infections and outbreaks. Support worker enabling vaccination payments for providers were
extended in December 2022 and acknowledge the burden providers face in reducing the
impacts of COVID-19, unlike the experience of the aged care sector where vaccines were
largely available at work sites.
In July 2022, the NDIA worked with DoHAC to distribute more than 6.8 million RATs to SIL
settings in line with AHPPC guidance, since the ending of this initiative the NDIS Support
Worker Cost Model pricing increases allow providers to purchase RATs commercially.
The NDIA also communicates with provider peaks to share COVID-19 safe practices for
participants and providers and promotes health and policy messaging, including information
on the Disability Worker COVID-19 Leave Grant, led by DSS.




ndis.gov.au                            December 2' 23                                            5
Appendices

Appendix A-COVID-19 Communication and Engagement Summary NDIA.
Appendix B - National Disability Insurance Agency COVID-19 Support Measures
Appendix C - University of Melbourne Report - Research into Participant Experiences with
National Disability Insurance Scheme funded Allied Healthcare Services during COVID-19
Appendix D - NDIA Research into Participant Experiences with NDIS Services During the
COVID-19 Pandemic




ndis.gov.au                          December 2' 23                                        6
