My mother was completely paralysed ^^^^^^|from the beginning of the pandemic and died six
months later. She lived in Victoria and I needed to travel from interstate in order to visit her.

It has now come to my attention that Australia had pandemic plans to varying degrees. I know that
Victoria had one, as did the Commonwealth. I think the inquiry should look at what the plans said
ought to be done and compare it with was actually done. Instead of following the plans, all
governments decided to copy the approach of totalitarian regime ^^^^Hby effectively locking us
up. Why bother having plans at all if you don't intend to follow them ?

Second, it became evident quite early on that the virus affected certain cohorts of people more than
others,Why were there blanket restrictions on
the entire population instead of having targeted restrictions or recommendations? Sweden for
example, followed its pandemic plan and did not lock down its citizens.

During the whole pandemic the focus was always maintaining the fear - counts of cases as opposed
to actual counts of death. There was never any positive or encouraging news on the vast numbers of
people who recovered.

I was and still am completely and utterly appalled that the Federal Government did nothing to keep
the state borders open during this time. I am appalled and extremely bitter that I needed permission
to visit my dying mother. I have relatives in Europe and travel between states in Germany was never
restricted.

Furthermore, during the height of the madness, I was only allowed to visit my mother for 1 hour per
week. Let that sink in - ONE HOUR PER WEEK. She was dying. There was no hope she would recover.
She wanted and craved the affection of her family. And this was denied to her by a callous and evil
dictator in Victoria.

I'm also appalled that the Queensland Government did something similar by not allowing a pregnant
lady in Tweed Heads to be treated in Brisbane - "Queensland Hospitals are for Queenslanders" or
words to that effect is what the QLD premier stated. Last time I looked I have a Commonwealth
medicare card which I thought entitled me to treatment in any Australian hospital. I'm pretty sure
that some of my medicare levy finds its way into Queensland hospitals. Absolutely disgusting.



Yours sincerely
