                                                     1


Terms of Reference for the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
               14 dec 2023       I am a hard working self-employed single mother.




It might be noted that the inquiry even though was set up in Sept 2023 , the information sharing to
inform the public seemed to be restricted and notice of this only came to light this week 11
December. So with very limited time to construct the submission to prepare a very detailed
response to these very serious references you will find my response without all the references to
evidence that would have been included if more times was available.


Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination
Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting
responses to COVID-19

1.      It is now very clear that the Commonwealth Government along with the State & Territories
 governments and associated Cabinets, Committees and Advisory Bodies assumed enormous
 powers , never given to them by the people, and made Life altering decision that were based on
 limited information and used different methods to coerce the Australian people. The violation of
 human rights has been an enormous issue along with the Australian people's constitutional rights
 being ignored and managed , Such as - controlled and restricted freedom of speech, Opinion,
 Religion, Association and Movement.
2.     The creation of National Cabinet has/had no basis in the constitution and undermined the
 rule of law including our emergency laws. Operating in secret and with NO minute's released and
 no accountability, even to today, for decisions made and on what basis?
3.     State Governments making decisions on boarder closures ( political boarders - as a
 federation we do not have borders) lead to devastating results for many Australians. Medical
 disasters and deaths occurred when CHO and premiers made irrational decisions. Family's split.
 Family dying alone.
4.     Business affected by border closures and mandates where employees were coerced to take
 the experimental injection ( Minister for Heath Greg Hunt explained this experiment on national
 TV in 2021) that now is proved to be gene therapy, to keep their jobs to earn an income to
 support their family's. This violates human rights, breaches the Nuremberg code, and
 demonstrates that the government assumed its power over individuals' bodies. The Federal Govt
 were consenting to the above treatment of Australians by the states ( and more) by their silence.
5.     The Government, Federal and States Investigation into the actions of China and Wuhan
 should have been the first place of investigation ( as we know now the released pathogenic was
 manmade)
6.     The TGA investigation of the rushed experimental injections should have been conducted
 and not just take the word of the FDA that also just took the word of the Pharm companies of the
 safe and effectiveness of these injections. ( As per senate estimates the TGA did not read the
 Documents from the Parma companies files before approving the use. The Court case in USA that
 made Pfizer to release their trial data that they tried to suppress for nearly 100 years reveals how
 unsafe the injections were and could be) This was the data that TGA should of read before any
 approval.
                                                       2


7.     What were the agreements signed by that Federal Govt when purchase of the injections,
 that gave the Big Pharma companies NO responsibility or any Legal Liability re any Vaccine Injuries
 and Deaths?

Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical
supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

1.      No minimum of 5-10 years of Vaccine testing before it is made available to the public.1 2
2.      No response to people dying and serious injuries from the Vaccines - and no withdrawal of
 the vaccines from the market - this data recorded on the Govt Database of Adverse Event
 Notifications
3.      The dismissal and banning of previous approved drugs for the use by doctors and hospitals,
 to be used in early and ongoing treatment. Like Ivermectin ( Safe and Effective since 1987 ) and
 Hydroxychloroquine were Identified early by a number of doctors around the world for treatment
 for COVID 19 - able to reduce the severity of the Coronavirus in many ( as proved in Indian)
 counties. The banning of these drugs created worse health outcomes for Australians and people
 around that world.
4.     The reason for the emergency experimental mRNA injections to be allowed to be approved
 is based on " there is no adequate, approved, and available alternative to the product" The
 banning of the effective already approved and available drugs demonstrates and brings to light
 that the TGA dismissed these therapies in order to approve the other. This calls into question the
 purported independence of this regulatory body.
5.     AHPRA's statement to medical professionals in 2021 that threatened and harassed those
 who did not follow the Govts stated position, lead to negligent treatment of Australians, with
 Doctors and Medical professionals not following their Code of Conduct - First do not harm and
 that all people have granted consent based on full disclosure of the real risks and benefits. This
 was not forth coming for the people. No given consent for these injections has been given by the
 people, as the Full disclosure was never given to them of the product, by the medical
 professionals and the Govt.
6.      The Federal Govt and its regulatory bodies failed to make sure the emergency approved
 mRNA injections were assessed correctly as a Genetically Modified Organism.
7.     Public Health Messaging = Repeated Messaging of one opinion to the people was
 detrimental in regard to Lockdowns, mandates and treatments. No debate or questions were
 allowed by any mainstream media sources to enlighten the people of the Differing opinions (
 https://gbdeclaration.org/focused-protection/) on the science of these points. Questions and
 debates were limited to a few in Australia that allowed people an alternative opinion to the
 governments one. Like Sky News, Ben Fordham and Senator estimates.



Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example mental health and
suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and other preventive health measures).

 1.     Quarantine and Lockdowns : Locking people up in homes, hotels, ships, helped to create
  more medical issues, a huge increase of individual with 'mental health problems, increased
  Suicide, social behaviour changes in adults and children locked out of schools, parent locked up


1 https://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/immunization/vaccine_safety/science.htm
2 https://ncirs.org.au/phases-clinical-trials
                                                       3


 with families trying to work and teach; businesses going bust, financial stresses beyond
 imagination and isolation of people from family is crisis situations (hospitals, dying, funerals,
 grieving, general family support etc) Its unthinkable that devastation these measures caused and
 still are affecting thousands of Australians still today.
2.       Firstly, the focus should be on people who have been injured from COVID 19 vaccines - the
 list is long and length ( see Jab Injuries Australia information - book published) & the original lists
 from the TGA Vaccine Injuries.
3.       Secondly, the investigation into the deaths of those from COVID 19 vaccines. The
 Therapeutics Goods Administration (TGA) made it difficult for doctors to record injuries on the
 web site, investigations by some found one could record it themselves but so many did not know
 - so records I watched in early days as the data base got bigger was horrifying.

International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to international
border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic use in Australia).

 1.      Australia is sovereign country and at no time should international control be given over
  what the Australian people choose for themselves - no outside governance should be allowed.
 2.      Vaccine supplies if were an option - important to focus on ensuring the vaccines we choose
  to let into our country are thoroughly tested, trialled for the mandatory 5-10 years to ensure they
  are 'Safe and Effective'. And Full information on all the risks and benefits for consent to be given
  by the people on an individual basis.



Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to supply chain and transport issues, addressing
labour shortages, and support for specific industries).

1.      Support for small business with staff issues that partly can be contributed by People being
 continually sick from the injections and boosters that have been taken by choice or forced. Small
 business is the backbone to Australia economy. Assist small business back that will in turn support
 employment.
2.      The labour shortages are also from the thousands of people who were mandated to take
 injections that they did not want to. Then have been ostracised from their employment. Eg -
 Police force, Ambulance/ Paramedics , Nurses, and so many more.
3.      Large Increase in immigration is not the answer, the large increase has created major issues
 in employment for Austrlaians and lack of housing. Immigration policy needs a complete overall.



Financial support for individuals (including income support payments).

Jab Injury individuals need to be provided with support financial and compensation. The current
process is not meeting the needs of those in terrible debilitating situations where they are unable
to work due , through no fault of their own - just the 'Mandating process' that led these people
down a path with no come back.
                                                      4


Community supports (across early childhood education and care, higher education, housing and
homelessness measures, family and domestic violence measures in areas of Commonwealth Government
responsibility).



Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including across
genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples
and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities)

1.      One mechanism is for future Govt and Regulatory bodies, Media, all medical professionals
 to be open and honest and operate with integrity for all Australians of all colours all cultural
 differences, ages and abilities.
2.      This question leads us to believe the Govt wish to divide the nations of Australians.
3.      The Govt's, Regulatory bodies, Businesses and individuals should never be silent in the face
 of events that violate human rights.


Closing statement

 A question that needs to be answered is weather the emergency-approved mRNA
 injections ( GMO) may be contributions to the current extraordinary excess
 mortality that is being observed in Australia. This should attract research to explain,
 however the govt and health bureaucrats seem to be lacking curiosity of the ten of
 thousands of EXCESS deaths, yet were and are starting again to be over concerned
 about the deaths from Covid or any strain that seems to arise, that are minimal in
 comparison to Excess deaths.

 A full inquiry into all that has occurred since late 2019 to date and beyond is critical
 if any lesson will be gained by the miss management and debacle of the last 4 years.
