 SUBMISSION FOR COVID 19 ENQUIRY

 I am a partner in a small business in the building industry and mother
                   I was appalled at the extreme measures and mandates
 imposed on the population during the so-called Covid 19 pandemic. I call for a
 proper Royal Commission into a number of things that impacted me and my
 family directly and others, and other acts by government that were clearly
 against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights:

                       were manipulated into receiving experimental
 vaccinations, without full consent and knowledge of any side effects. One was
 wanting to travel overseas and could not do so unless vaccinated. The other
 wanted to merely go out to licenced bars or restaurants as she was single.
 They were constantly told through the media and by government information
 that they were safe and effective, when in fact it is now proven that they were
 not tested thoroughly, both either in Australia by the TGA or by their
 manufacturers. After her injections my                  had
            and she thought she was going to die. She also^^^^H, as well
 as her vaccinated partner, and was tested positive for Covid 19.

 Myself and my ^^^^Bdid not get the injections and so were banned to going
 to many venues because of this, even though we were well and healthy. My
^^■lost the ability to quote on some jobs as some potential clients asked
 if he was vaccinated, which he was not. Some were scared they may be
 infected even though he was well and healthy. Masks were mandated to be
 worn in certain places and there was no scientific proof that they actually
 worked. Politicians made unfounded and scaremongering statements,
 including that "the virus would hunt you down" if you were unvaccinated. And
 that hospitals would be full and overwhelmed with the unvaccinated. They did
 everything to coerce and scare everyone to getting this injection. Yet
^^■said himself that "the world is undergoing the biggest trial in history".

 We were later to learn that ATAGI and AHPRA were directly responsible for
 gagging doctors who questioned the safety or effects of these "vaccinations".
 Doctors and medical professionals were the people whom we have come to
 totally trust with our health. And so for the govt to gag and suppress these
medical professionals views and observations on the safety and the adverse
reactions and deaths witnessed by them is just horrendous and despicable.

Sick patients and pregnant women trying to cross state borders were often
denied entry, which resulted in deaths and highly stressful situations and
further deterioration in health. All in the name of saving peoples health. It
made no medical sense at all. People were falsely labeled with dying of Covid
when in fact their actual cause of death was something totally unrelated. But
the result of that news on media outlets caused panic and fear in the masses
and drove more fearful people to get the experimental gene therapy. And that
fear turned into anger towards those who did not get vaccinated, creating a
divide and resentment between family, friends, workmates and community.
This fear driven rhetoric was driven by the government and politicians and
senior health officials and the media. All those who drove that fear need to be
held accountable. And there were many, in every state. The people
remember who and what was said.

Many vaccinated received ongoing health conditions after their jab, many tried
to report their injuries through the government channels and/or asked for
compensation but have largely been ignored. We demand accountability. We
demand an independent enquiry. We, the people, demand a Royal
Commission into the corruption and the injustices that many suffered through
these strict and unscientific mandates. We want Justice! And we will not stop
until we get it!
