     Dr Catherine Anne Sharp PhD (Flinders SA) MHL (USyd) MPH (UNSW)
     MCliN (USyd) SRN, RSCN UK


    I am a registered nurse and have been an Infection Control Consultant since
    1995. When I started nursing decades ago, we had no personal protective
    equipment, no gloves, masks, or impermeable gowns. I have been in contact
    with patients with TB, HIV/ AIDS, diarrhoea, vomiting, flu, and every known
    infectious disease. I never caught anything.

    ^^^^^|said in one interview that 'if you are in the same room as someone
    with HIV/ AIDS, you can catch it.' This is outrageous nonsense.


     I, like thousands of other nurses around the country, am not permitted to work
     in a clinical setting because I am unvaxxed. Why? I'm not sick!


     I will focus my comments on the following points from the Terms of Reference:


•   Key health response measures COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
    medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine
    facilities, and public health messaging.


        a)          Informed Consent
             How did nurses gain consent from each patient before they jabbed
             them? Where did they get information about Covid and the possible side
             effects of the vaxx? What questions did they ask each patient about their
             own medical history and whether they had any allergies? They didn't!


        b)          Vaccinations

             Watching nurses injecting people in clinics, sports stadiums and the like
             was sickening. I have given many hundreds of intramuscular injections
             into the arm...into the muscle. The correct way to do it is to insert the
             needle into the muscle, then aspirate the plunger to make sure the needle
             is not in a blood vessel, then inject the solution.
     Not one nurse, that I watched, aspirated the plunger! We have no idea
     how many people received the vaxx straight into a blood vessel and
     whether that caused blood clots, heart attacks or instant death?

     Some nurses gave the injections high up in the arm/shoulder/close to
     bone. I have no idea how many patients have damage to the bone.

     Some nurses pinched up the skin then inserted the needle. Doing this
     may have prevented the vaxx from entering the muscle. The vaxx may
     have gone into the subcutaneous tissue instead.

c)          Personal protective equipment

     Personal   protective equipment       (PPE)   was   an   expensive,   and
     unnecessary, waste of time. You do not need a gown that covers your
     knees! If you are sticking your head inside a car window to put a swab
     inside somebody's nose and they sneeze, the area that is going to get
     sprayed is the nurse's hair, face, and neck. These areas were rarely fully
     covered.

     The potential for nurses to take 'bugs' home on your hair, then hug your
     children, shaking bugs all over them then hopping into bed with your
     partner, spreading millions of bugs on the pillow and breathing it all in
     was, it seems, never considered.

     Regarding putting a swab inside somebody's nose why on earth are the
     swabs so long? As an Infection Control Consultant, I swabbed many
     patients' noses (staff as well) and wounds, with short swab sticks and I
     only inserted the swab just inside the nostril.

     I am told that nurses taking 'Covid swabs' were told to push the swab
     up to the back of the nose as far as possible and when they met
     resistance, to push further. I have heard that this practice may have
     caused brain abscesses. So utterly dangerous and not evidence-based.
     There is no science behind that practice.
     Please do not make staff in hospitals and aged care wear masks. The
     masks are hell to wear while you work and will not prevent 'bugs'
     passing through them. Also, they need to be changed every 20 mins.. .at
     least that used to be a recommendation. Do not make children in school
     wear them! Read the microbiology reports of bacteria that grow inside
     masks making children sick.

d)            Public health messaging
     Messaging from journalists was wrong and out of place. They are not
     qualified to promote vaxxs. Telling my grandchildren to get vaxxed to
     protect me is the most unscientific reason I have heard.


     Not being allo wed to watch m                play soccer... .out in the fresh
     air was ludicrous.


     Keeping families apart was cruel.
     I have so much more to add but it is exhausting.
     When are you going to reinstate the 5,000 or so nurses in NSW. That
     could make a huge difference to workload and safety in hospitals, and
     it may ease the load on the ambulance service.
     Sincerely




     Dr Catherine A. Sharp
     PhD (Flinders Uni SA) MHL (USyd)
     MPH (UNSW) MClinN (USyd) SRN RSCN (UK)
     Consultant and Expert Witness
     Expert Witness Nurse Consultants Australia




     w. wwv’.expertwitnessnurse.com.au
     e. ■
