Ms. Robyn Kruk AO
Chair, Independent Panel
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet

Dear Ms Kruk,

           Submission to the Independent Panel Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Thank you for the opportunity to provide a submission to the Independent Panel conducting the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry1. As the CEO, Guidelines and Economists Network International (GENI) I will
address two key areas of the Inquiry’s terms of reference concerning governance and mechanisms to better target future
responses to the needs of particular populations.

Background

GENI is an international association that enables health economists, epidemiologists, clinicians, medical and health policy
experts world-wide to work with prominent international bodies, health services, governments, and Parliaments. GENI’s
agenda is to facilitate the effective integration of Clinical Practice Guidelines, economic and clinical evidence into national
decision making and clinical practice in the health sector. GENI aims to forge linkages with bodies that set the standards
for appropriate treatment under different conditions that may link to contracts or regulatory processes such as insurers and
national government funding systems. The association aims to achieve both clinical and cost effectiveness in health care
delivery and equity in related national funding and regulation. 2 3 My submission embraces a whole-of government view
to effectively address the wide-ranging impacts of COVID-19 across portfolios and the community.

I will address your Inquiry’s terms of reference concerning governance and mechanisms to better target future responses
to the needs of particular populations. Issue 1 below addresses improved governance through providing and discussing my
submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-194 which examined the Australian Government's health and
economic response to the pandemic. Issue 2 updates issues in that submission by discussing crucial economic evaluation
techniques to better target responses to the needs of particular populations during future pandemics. This will facilitate the
Commonwealth’s governance and use of a whole-of government view to effectively evaluate the wide-ranging impacts of
COVID-19 across portfolios and the community. My views have been published in the 2023 edition of the ‘Journal of
Public Health’ (Antioch, 2023).5 This is a peer reviewed international journal.

Issues

Issue 1: Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism, and the
Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

In addressing this issue, I hereby provide and discuss my submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 which
examined the Australian Government's health and economic response to the pandemic (Antioch, 2020 6). (see Attachment
1, which was published by Parliament). The recommendations in my Senate submission are outlined below. These were
developed following my review of international governance approaches to addressing the pandemic by governments in
Australia, UK, Germany, Denmark, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Canada, USA, and NZ7. Further information concerning
the international review and rationale for my recommendations is in the attached submission. This is pertinent to your
Inquiry8.

My senate submission recommends the establishment of an Australian Pandemic and Health Protection Agency (APHPA)
to advise the Australian Government on actions to anticipate and mitigate the social, health and economic effects of global
pandemics and disease emergencies. This includes a virtuaEdz/Vrahm; Centre ofDisease Control (ACDC) in its operations


1 https://www.pmc.gov.au/covid-19-response-inquirv/consultation
2 Antioch KM Drummond M and Niessen L et al (2017) 'International Lessons in New Methods for Grading and Integrating Cost Effectiveness
Evidence into Clinical Practice Guidelines' Cost Effectiveness and Resource Allocation Journal. 15:1 pages 1-15
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5303215/pdf/12962 2017 Article 63.pdf
3 https://geni-econ.org/
4 Antioch, KM (2020) ‘Submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 Inquiry into the’ Australian Government’s Response to the COVID-
19 Pandemic’ Submission number 511.https://www.aph.gov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=a62cb654-eel6-4638-b82d-5ec49ce86738&subId=698467
5 Antioch, K.M. The economics of the COVID-19 pandemic: economic evaluation of government mitigation and suppression policies, health system
innovations, and models of care. J Public Health (Berl.) (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/sl0389-023-01919-z
6 https://www.aph. gov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=a62cb654-eel6-4638-b82d-5ec49ce86738&subId=698467
7 ibid
8 My recent research identified similar equivalent organisations in Europe (European Centre for Disease Prevention), France (French Public Health
Agency ), Switzerland (Federal Office of Public Health), which further reinforce the desirability of establishing an APHPA with links to the ACDC.
                                                                        1
with multiple hubs across all Australian states and territories - regional and metro, covering all aspects of infectious disease
control from genetics to public policy and legislation.
The APHPA would assist the Government to ensure all resources are marshalled in a cost-effective and co-ordinated
manner. It would also facilitate the mobilization of a whole-of-society and whole-of-economy effort to enable success in
health crises.

My recommendation to establish an ACDC was subsequently recommended by the Senate Select Committee on COVID-
19 and is being implemented by the Commonwealth Government. My additional recommendations to that Senate Select
Committee concerning, inter alia, the APHPA warrant further consideration by your Inquiry and are outlined below.

“Recommendation I: To consolidate and maintain Australia’s successful economic and health response to the pandemic
it is recommended that the Federal Government:

Establish an Australian Pandemic and Health Protection Agency (APHPA) in Canberra as a non-corporate Commonwealth
Entity under Acts and Regulations. The Statutory Agency should be established under an Act of Parliament in the Portfolio
of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet during 2021 as a high priority to:

     •    advise the Australian Government on actions to anticipate and mitigate the social, health and economic effects of
          global pandemics and disease emergencies.
     •    work in tandem with the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and Department of Health, who will lead the
          Commonwealth’s health response in pandemics and public health emergencies.
     •    include a virtual Australian Centre of Disease Control (ACDC) in its operations with multiple hubs across all
          Australian states and territories - regional and metro, covering all aspects of infectious disease control from
          genetics to public policy and legislation. This could facilitate research collaborations between universities and
          businesses, with the aim of driving innovation and supporting pandemics. The virtual Australian CDC would,
          from 2025, forge strong links with the proposed new Australian Institute of Infectious Diseases (AIID) in
          Melbourne which will be the largest infectious diseases centre in the Indo-Pacific region. This Institute aims to
          accelerate research into the prevention of future pandemics and rapidly develop treatments and will involve the
          Burnet Institute and be located next to the Doherty Institute. It will involve experts from the Walter and Eliza Hall
          Institute for Medical Research, the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute, the University of Melbourne, and
          Melbourne-headquartered global biotechnology company CSL.9 The ACDC would collaborate with the new large
          vaccine factory at the Melbourne airport expected to be operational by 202610 11 The Virtual ACDC would be
          multi-disciplinary as outlined in Recommendation 3 below.
     •    facilitate cooperation across public-to-private and private-to-private networks to unlock resources, remove
          bottlenecks and rectify problems to support Australian families, communities, and businesses.
     •    facilitate cost effective national co-ordination mechanisms for non-health and health aspects of the pandemic and
          in collaboration with the bodies and processes in recommendation 2 below.
     •    ensure a governing board that can advise on both health and non-health aspects of the pandemic response including
          leaders across NFP, governments and private sectors. The Board should comprise strong expertise in commerce,
          health, medicine, finance, pandemics, law, governance, public policy, research, and economics.

Recommendation 2: To facilitate the effective integration of the APHPA with current national, state and territory
pandemic initiatives it is recommended that the:

     •         APHPA work with the National COVID 19 Commission Advisory Board on non-health issues.
     •    Virtual Australian Centre for Disease Control, working in close collaboration with the Department of Health and,
          from 2025, the Australian Institute of Infectious Diseases and the new vaccine factory at Melbourne Airport will
          ensure governments’ actions are guided by the best medical advice, while ensuring the economic and social
          wellbeing of all Australians is central to the response.
     •    National Cabinet, comprising the Prime Minister, State Premiers and Territory Chief Ministers will continue to
          lead future pandemic national response at a government level.
     •    Australian Government’s National Security Committee of Cabinet’s COVID-19 Taskforce and the Expenditure
          Review Committee of Cabinet12 will continue to make decisions that determine the Commonwealth’s response to
          global pandemics.


9 Jack Paynter, NCA News Wire Victoria to build Australian Institute ofInfectious Disease in Melbourne November 13 2020
https://amp.news.coni.au/teclmology/science/human-body/victoria-to-build-australian-institute-of-infectious-diseases-in-melboume/news-
Story/c48230f2744b4dl6a3f89b30f4120dfb
10 Stuart Marsh Nine News PM touches down in Victoria to announce $800 million vaccine factory at Melbourne Airport
https://amp.9news.com.au/article/bl5d03ee-eba7-46fl-81a3-58cc96155e94
11 Sky News Melbourne vaccine plant to secure the health of the nation and 520 construction Jobs 16 November 2020
https://www.skynews.com.au/details/_6209946388001
12 https://www.pm.gov.au/media/national-covid-19-coordination-com mission
                                                                         2
       •National Coordination Mechanism based in the Department of Home Affairs, which coordinates the cross
       jurisdictional response to non-health aspects of the pandemic13, will work closely with the APHPA. The current
       Coronavirus Business Liaison Unit, Treasury Department will also work with the Agency.
Recommendation 3: To facilitate global leadership in discoveries to mitigate pandemics and other public health
emergencies, it is recommended that the APHPA will ensure that:

       •   the virtual Australian CDC in recommendation 1 will be multi-disciplinary and include experts in epidemiology,
            public health, genetics, statistics, outbreak management, communications, community management, health
            economics, quantum computing,14 15 artificial intelligence1617 and biophysics.1718 Translational, clinical, and basic
                                                                          18
            sciences researchers could facilitate taking discoveries from the lab to clinics. 19
       •         international experts in fields in short supply in Australia to be included in the Virtual ACDC.

Recommendation 4: To ensure the best health, community, and economic outcomes it is recommended that the APHPA
will

       •         assist the Government to ensure all resources are marshalled in a cost-effective and co-ordinated manner.
       •   facilitate the mobilization of a whole-of-society and whole-of-economy effort to enable success in such health
           crises.
       •   liaise with stakeholders in Australia and internationally to identify health, medical, biophysics, legal, economic,
           AI, quantum computing, economics, and policy advice.”20

The APHPA and ACDC could work with the Australian Protection Principal Committee, its sub-committees, and Advisory
Committees to enable a One Health, ‘all hazards’ approach for communicable and non-communicable diseases with data
linkage, nationally consistent analysis, advice, data security, guidelines, and an adequate National Medical Stockpile.

Issue 2: Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs ofparticular populations (including across genders,
age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and communities
and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

Novel economic evaluation techniques to better target responses to the needs of particular populations during future
pandemics are outlined below. This can assist public health and budget decisions by the Australian Commonwealth and
State governments and globally. In accordance with recommendation 4 above, this would facilitate the work of the APHPA
and ACDC to assist the Government to ensure all resources are marshalled in a cost-effective and co-ordinated manner.

My views on these evaluation techniques are published in the ‘Journal of Public Health’21 (See Attachment 2). The
economic evaluation techniques address a whole-of-govemment view in recognition of the wide-ranging impacts of
COVID-19 across portfolios and the community. An in-depth analysis of the methodologies and evaluations undertaken
are included in my attached journal article entitled ‘The economics of the COVID-19 pandemic: economic evaluation of
government mitigation and suppression policies, health system innovations, and models of care’. J Public Health
(Berl.) (Antioch, 2023). A brief overview of my internationally peer reviewed journal article is provided below.

The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the scope of health economics literature, which will increasingly examine value
beyond health care interventions such as government policy and broad health system innovations. Economic evaluations
and methodologies evaluating government policies suppressing or mitigating transmission and reducing COVID-19, broad
health system innovations, and models of care are identified. This can facilitate future economic evaluations and assist
government and public health policy decisions during pandemics22. The study found that cost utility analysis (CUA) and
cost benefit analysis (CBA) analysing mortality, morbidity, quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained, national income


13 ibid
14 Ramon Szmuk Quantum computing will (eventually) help us discover vaccines in days May 16, 2020
   https://venturebeat.com/2020/05/16/quantum-computing-will-eventually-help-us-discover-vaccines-in-days/
15 Julian van Velzen Can quantum technolog)’ assist in the next COVID crises? Part 1, July 21, 2020.
   https://www.capgemini.com/2020/07/can-quantum-technologv-assist-in-the-next-covid-crisis-part-l/
16 Arash Keshavarzi Arshadi et al Ari^ial Intelligence for COVID-19 drug discoveiy and vaccine development 18 August 2020.
    https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frai.2020.00065/full
17 King J et al Biophysical Society BPS Blog Coronavirus structure, vaccine and therapy development
   https://www.biophysics.org/blog/coronavirus-structure-vaccine-and-therapy-development
18 Biophysical Society What is biophysics? accessed 15 November 2020 https://www.biophysics.org/what-is-biophysics
19 Sophia Zoungas Australian Financial Review Time for an Australian Centres for Disease Control November 9 2020
    https://www.afr.com/work-and-careers/education/time-for-an-australian-centers-for-disease-control-20201102-p56auo
20 Antioch, KM (2020) ‘Submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 Inquiry into the’ Australian Government’s Response to the
COVID-19 Pandemic’ Pg 3-5, Sub No 511 https://www.aph.gov.au/DocumentStore.ashx?id=a62cb654-eel6-4638-b82d-5ec49ce86738&subId=698467
21 Antioch, K.M. The economics of the COVID-19 pandemic: economic evaluation of government mitigation and suppression policies, health system
innovations, and models of care. J Public Health (Berl.) (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/sl0389-023-01919-z
22 ibid
                                                                     3
loss, and value of production effectively evaluate government policies suppressing or mitigating COVID-19 transmission,
disease, and impacting national income loss. The WHO’s pandemic economic framework facilitates economic evaluations
of social and movement restrictions. Social return on investment (SROI) links benefits to health and broader social
improvements. Multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) can facilitate vaccine prioritization, equitable health access, and
technology evaluation. Social welfare function (SWF) can account for social inequalities and population-wide policy
impact.
SWF is a generalization of CBA, and operationally, it is equal to an equity-weighted CBA. It can provide governments
with a guideline for achieving the optimal distribution of income, which is vital during pandemics.

Economic evaluations of broad health system innovations and care models addressing COVID-19 effectively use cost
effectiveness analysis (CEA) that utilize decision frees and Monte Carlo models, and CUAs that effectively utilize decision
trees and Markov models, respectively. Several methodologies are therefore very instructive for governments, in addition
to their current use of cost benefit analysis and the Value ofa Statistical Life analytical tool. CUA and CBA effectively
evaluate government policies suppressing or mitigating COVID-19 transmission, disease, and impacts on national income
loss. CEA and CUA effectively evaluate broad health system innovations and care models addressing COVID-19. The
WHO’s framework, SROI, MCDA, and SWF can also facilitate government decision-making during pandemics23.

Recent developments: Establishment of an Australian CDC

An ACDC is being established by the Department of Health and Aged Care (DHAC) to improve Australia's response and
preparedness for public health emergencies. It will ensure pandemic preparedness, lead national responses to health
emergencies, and facilitate prevention and control of non-communicable and communicable diseases. DHAC is working
with governments, health and aged care stakeholders, academics, researchers, and international counterparts. The 2023-24
May Budget allocated $90.9m to establish an interim ACDC within DHAC led by the CMO from 1 January 2024. The
funding will assist in finalising ACDC functions. It will support establishment of a standalone ACDC, passage of legislation
and consultation24. The interim ACDC will initially focus on pandemic preparedness and preventing communicable
diseases. It will provide national leadership in prevention across communicable and non-communicable diseases. A phased
approach will establish the ACDC, with further work in 2023 on a standalone ACDC. The October 2022-23 Budget
allocated $3.2m to establish the ACDC25. Stakeholders explored roles during 2022, culminating in a CDC stakeholder
consultation report26 to advise government on the scope and functions of an ACDC. It was developed in response to the
DHAC consultation paper which states that “While the CDC will be part of the Australian Government in some form, no
other firm decisions have been made relating to its structure or governance'"27 (pg 6). There is currently an excellent
opportunity to consider implementation options for APHHA and its relationship with an ACDC.

Recommendations:

Recommendation 1: That you consider my submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19, including its
recommendations, to establish an APHPA and ACDC to enable the Government to marshal resources in a cost-effective
and co-ordinated manner, mobilizing a whole-of-society and whole-of-economy effort during health crises.

Recommendation 2: That you consider my journal article concerning ‘The economics of the COVID-19 pandemic:
economic evaluation of government mitigation and suppression policies, health system innovations, and models of care’.
Commonwealth and State governments can use the economic evaluation techniques analysed in the article to better target
responses to the needs of particular populations during future pandemics. This information updates my recommendations
to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19 with methodologies that can be utilized by the APHPA and ACDC to
achieve the outcomes identified in foregoing recommendation 1 .

Recommendation 3: The APHPA and ACDC be implemented to enable a One Health, ‘all hazards’ approach for
communicable and non-communicable diseases with data linkage, nationally consistent analysis, advice, data security,
guidelines, and an adequate National Medical Stockpile.

I trust this information will assist you to make recommendations to improve response measures in future pandemics. They
embrace a whole-of-govemment view in recognition of the wide-ranging impacts of COVID-19 across portfolios and the
community. I would welcome the opportunity to participate in stakeholder meetings during 2024.

Kind Regards,




23 ibid
24 https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/Australian-CDC
25 ibid
26 https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-03/centre-for-disease-control-stakeholder-consultation-report.pdf
27 https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/ll/role-and-functions-of-an-australian-centre-for-disease-control_0.pdf pg 6
                                                                          4
Dr Kathryn Antioch GAICD, PhD (Health Economics), MSc, BA (Hons) AFCHSM, CHM
Chief Executive Officer, Guidelines and Economists Network International (GENI)
Principal Management Consultant, Health Economics and Funding Reforms
Adjunct Senior Lecturer, DEPM
School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine Monash University
Adjunct Instructor, Department of Pharmacotherapy, College of Pharmacy, University of Utah, USA
http://geni-econ.org phone |                                               19 November 2023




                                                        5
