My Experience During Covid
I am a                           the time to keep up to date on Covid matters. I am probably best
informed about what is working and what is not working for the older Australians but because I have
the ability and means to avoid Covid for the most part, I am much more concerned for my family and
in fact for the whole of the younger generations.


I find it excruciating watching while misinformed politicians/medicos act in a way that puts the whole
population at risk, while they could, with very little effort, make such a difference to people's health by
taking a different approach.


I watch as people lose trust in Government Ministers and officials who think concealing data and
pretending the disease has disappeared will placate the population, a tactic that may help people forget
the disease for some time but which is ultimately counterproductive. If we pretended people didn't die
on the roads that wouldn't help reduce road deaths and a virus you can track and follow is much less
potent than one you are pretending is not there.


While data was available I have been able to avoid a Covid infection by scheduling
appointments                           and other unavoidable meetings when data showed the virus was
low but completely isolating when the virus was prevalent. I am one of the lucky ones who had the
ability to do that but nowadays with data being unavailable it is much more difficult to avoid the
disease without continual isolation.


My suggestions:


Make the date about the prevalence of Covid publically available, maybe in a weekly basis if daily is
too onerous. Biweekly is too infrequent. It doesn't have to be in the daily news, but it should be
accessible to the public so they can make informed decisions. Hiding data infantalises the public and
makes public officials look deceitful. You can't ask people to take individual responsibility then
withhold the data that enables them to do that.


Make as much data about vaccines available as possible. The government's effort was commendable at
the beginning of the pandemic but it has slipped a bit in recent times. There was no information at
all.abput when the new vaccines were coming until mid November. Don't be cowered by anti vaxers.
The majority of the population are not swayed by them and if you don't give them air they will lose
traction.
Facilitate clean air in public buildings, in particular schools and health care settings. We know by now
that this is an airborne disease but you wouldn't know if by looking at the advice many health
departments are giving the public. Businesses should be helped to take action to make the air in their
premises clean.


Give better informed advice. I got aGovernment ^^^^■Ncwslcttcr today with a letter by the
minister responsible^^^^^Jtelling people to wash their hands. It is inexcusable to tell ^^^^that
this will protect them. The minister might not be a scientist but she should certainly be better informed
than she appears to be. I have the impression that many officials think that only the^^^^^^J
vulnerable are at risk when in reality everyone is one infection away from long Covid and of increased
risk of the many illnesses that are Covid linked. At this point in the cycle the public should be being
advised to mask in public places including mandatory masking in public transport. Someone needs to
examine the reluctance of officials to properly inform people and clear away impediments.


Make it easier for the                    to get antivirals. My personal doctor is a one-man practice
without the means to do PCR tests and without enough information to know what I should do if I need
them. There should be much better information about how to access antivirals in this situation.
Telehealth may do this but I seldom see information about it. The minister                  could do so
much that would be really useful in this regard.


Give the public better advice. I have family members who have not been vaccinated this year and don't
realise they should be. Younger ones are reluctant to continuing to vaccinate, not realising the risks
with constantly changing viral strains. The government should persist with ads through tic tok etc to
counteract the misinformation being put out by the antivaxers.


I am not sure who is responsible for the delay in updated vaccines this year but it will result in more
sickness and death than needed to be. The process of vaccine purchase needs review.


The advisors I have found most informed and helpful include Dr. Raina MacIntyre, Professor Brendan
Crabb and the John Snow Project. Their advice should be used to better inform our officials.
