Submission to the Commonwealth Government covid-19 Response
Inquiry


Nurse for the past          Worked throughout the pandemic
without being sick{covid-19). At the time working in Aged Care
Facility and also Mental Health and Drug and Alcohol Rehabilitation.
Moved to

Did not contract covid-19.
Suspended from QLD Health due to mandates imposed as of 1st
October, 2021.
January 2022 had alleged signs of covid-19 [no worse than the flu],
confirmed by serology.


Concerns
Noticeable rise in mortality in Australia.
Prior to 2019 169,000 per year.
2020 161,0002021 190,000. Australia has had no inquiry into
increase mortality after the roll out of the experimental vaccine,
which begs the question "why not"?

Health Response to the Vaccination roll out
Covid-19 Vaccines were passed by the TGA as experimental, with a
limited time of testing. Also, a novel approach to gaining immunity.
No long term side effects.
Duration and effectiveness
No testing for effectiveness or stopping transmission.
The novel approach of using mRNA meant there were evidence/data
to draw comparisons, to compare to, or give expected outcomes.
Public Health Officials and the Government not only in Australian
but world wide were echoing "safe and effective".
How could this be the case with such a small window of testing with a
novel vaccination.
Messaging across media supported by government with immense
pressure to take an experimental vaccine. "Do it for your neighbours,
family and grandparents".

Vaccines were mandated to keep your job in most instances,
especially under the reign of the Labour Government in Victoria.
As we learned at the time, exemptions were impossible to get from
any GP due to concerns with their governing body AHPRA.

This brings us to the discussion of informed consent­
Meaning taken from the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality
in Health Care
Ensuring informed consent is properly obtained is a legal, ethical and
professional requirement on the part of all treating health
professionals and supports person-centred care.
Informed consent is a person's decision, given voluntarily, to agree to
a healthcare treatment, procedure, or other intervention that is
made,
Following the accurate and relevant information about the
healthcare intervention and alternative options available; and
With adequate knowledge and understanding of the benefits and
material risks of the proposed intervention relevant to the person
who would be having the treatment, procedure or other intervention.
The commission believes informed con sent is a key quality and
safety issue.
Key Facts according to healthdirect.gov.au
Consent is your agreement to for a healthcare professional to give
you treatment and care, including any tests, medicines, treatments or
procedures you agree to.
To give informed consent, you need to be given enough information
about your options to make the right decision for you and your
health.
Coercion
Noun
The practice of persuading someone to do anything by force or
threats- Oxford Dictionary.
Criteria for Valid Consent- point 2 sourced from The Australian
Immunisation Handbook.
It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure,
coercion or manipulation.
How can an experimental, novel vaccine that does not stop
transmission be forced upon the community under the heading of
"mandates".
It appears the Public Health Officials/government had no data or
reasonable argument to mandate vaccines.
Lockdowns

Mode of transmission covid-19- aerosols/droplets, not contact. Likely
to spread regardless of what we do to stop it.
The isolation of the elderly and people dying and ill in hospitals was
cruel to the extent. No funerals{limited anyway). No humanity at all.
MASKS
As long as there was a mask in place. Stand up-mask on. Sit down­
mask off. Did covid-19 have the ability to measure heights?? This is a
joke, not science.
PCR Testing
PCR testing did not confirm infection or any whole virus, it confirmed
a person was in contact with.
Asymptomatic disease, is this science? There was any obvious goal to
increase fear and general anxiety in the population
Conclusion
Dishonest messaging I believe has eroded any trust and confidence in
our institutions. We can only trust that t he said inquiry is honest to
maintain any public trust
