Submission to the Covid 19 Response Inquiry

Introduction:
I am an Australian citizen living               where I was born. I hope the committee will
read and consider my submission. I m a | year old woman and up until the beginning of
2022,1 was an ^■teacher working in private education in^^^^H. I have always been a
responsible, law abiding, taxpaying citizen in our free and democratic country. My life has
been turned upside down by our government’s response to the covid pandemic.
had his first dose of the Pfizer vaccine                     and had a severe adverse reaction
consisting of myocarditis, atrial fibrillation and severe heart failure. He was then unable to
get an exemption for his second dose and was unable to work as normal. In November 2021,
the Qld Government brought in a vaccine mandate for teachers for the beginning of the 2022
school year. I requested to take my long service leave to look after^^^^^^| until the
mandates were dropped, which they were after 2 terms. This was denied and my employment
was terminated after^|years of exemplary service. I believe the Australian public deserve
and need and full Royal Commission that looks into the Federal and State Government
response to the covid pandemic in order to understand what went wrong and prevent mistakes
from happening in the future.

Terms of Reference:

Governance:
Australia had an existing pandemic preparedness plan prior to covid. This was tossed aside
and the Government instead followed advice from the World Health Organisation (WHO)
and the FDA and CDC in the United States of America. This advice was based on early
modelling which over estimated the lethality of the virus. As new data emerged indicating
that the death rate was 0.4% and not 4% as modelled, response measures continued as before
this knowledge became clear. Measures such as extended lockdowns, quarantining of close
contacts, school closures, mask and vaccine mandates caused much harm and any benefits are
unclear.

The National Cabinet that was formed by the Prime Minister, the Health Minister, the State
Premiers and the State Chief Health Officers. Decisions were made at these National Cabinet
Meetings that affected all Australians. However, we still have not seen the minutes from
these meetings.

Key health response measures vaccines, treatments, masks, quarantine and health
messaging:
We were all told just two weeks to flatten the curve. That turned into extended lock downs,
state border closures, tracking and tracing close contacts, mask mandates and school closures.
Then we were told that the only way out of the pandemic was a vaccine. Early treatment
options which were having success in other countries were banned here. We were told there
was no treatment for covid. We were told we couldn’t open the borders until we reached
95% vaccination rate. We were told only the vaccinated were allowed to go to certain places
with a vaccine passport. The Federal Government did nothing about this discrimination.
Then we were told that the vaccines were safe and effective, even though the mRNA
technology was never used for vaccines before. Greg Hunt, as the Health Minister told
Australians that we were in the biggest pharmaceutical trial in history. Then they mandated
the vaccines for many professions. The Federal Government did nothing about the
discrimination people faced for refusing to participate in the world’s largest clinical trial. This
contravenes the Nuremberg code. Coercion is not an acceptable part of informed consent. It
was clear very early in the vaccine rollout that they did not stop infection or transmission.

There have been a significant number of deaths and adverse reactions recorded for the Covid
vaccines. The TGA and ATAGI have not done their job of protecting Australians from unsafe
pharmaceutical products. They have ignored the strong safety signals and still tell us these
products are safe and effective. They are obviously not effective as we find ourselves now in
the 9th wave of covid. Please see attached documents.

Mechanisms to better target future responses:
We must ensure we have a full Royal Commission into the Federal and State Government
responses to the pandemic so the failures we experienced during the covid pandemic never
happen again.
We must never again give pharmaceutical companies indemnity for vaccines even if they are
under emergency use authorisation. These vaccines have failed and have caused much harm.
We must retain our sovereignty and control over our response to heath challenges here in
Australia and do not rely on following the FDA or CDC or the WHO. We must not sign up to
the amendments to the International Health Regulations or the WHO pandemic
instrument/accord.
We must change the funding of the TGA from industry funding to government funding to
eliminate conflicts of interest.
