Background
I was a school teacher of 15years into my career. I worked all through the height of the ‘pandemic’ as an
‘essential’ frontline worker then suddenly got mandated to take the jabs. Literally couldn’t work the next day
despite being exposed to the virus already with natural immunity something that was controversial at the
time. I was sacked from my job and subsequently and unsuccessful at the Fairwork Commission in my
appeal. This was the most horrific experience of my life and career to date. I have suffered mental health
problems since. Lost immediate family relationships and friends. It felt like the most humiliating and
heartbreaking thing to ever happen simply as I wanted to have medical freedom to choose. Ever since this
incident there have been unprecedented teacher shortages which haven’t improved since. There were some
teachers who weren’t jabbed due to their individual circumstances yet could still be on school site. How can
some people go on site and yet others who aren’t jabbed not be allowed? Explain that risk? In a school
setting when teachers are mandated and students aren’t, how does that make any sense? There was also a
period when the health minister said you need to face three jabs to be ‘fully vaccinated’ yet mandates only
required two jabs.

Was there any evidence of the jab’s reducing transmission and if so why didn’t we see any study from any
state premier or politician?

I reached out to the human rights commission to help and got not response. I had a colleague who was a
healthy young passionate teacher who died shortly after the mandates due to                 whilst online
doing zoom with her class. This awful tragedy rocked the community and yet no one wanted to touch the
subject of vaccine side effects. With the roll out of a new experimental vaccine why aren’t autopsies being
performed?

Did the government engage the army or any other organisation to nudge or install fear on the Australian
population? Daily press conferences and media overestimating the risk seemed unjustified and an extremely
dangerous amount of fear being peddled. A ^^Hof                       due to the^^^^^^|.
became an^^^^Hovernight due to job and financial loss and still has police visit on a regular basis for
welfare checks.

Were Australian citizens being profiled or ‘watched’ due to their stance on government policies?

What evidence or study were lockdowns, masks, 6ft distances, 14 day isolation periods, beach closures,
churches shut yet brothels opened, Alcohol shops opened and gyms closed based on? Vax passports? Can the
study be shared? If any of these were effective why the need for the additional measures? It made zero sense
at the time with so many inconsistencies.

Why didn’t Australia follow the previous preparedness guidelines?

If someone hasn’t taken one jab yet some people are ‘fully up to date’ and they’ve had seven jabs. Can that
person ever be ‘up to date’

How much money does the TGA receive from pharmaceutical companies such as Pfizer? I read a study
looking at regulatory body’s around the world and it seemed that the TGA receives over 90 percent or more
of their financial contributions from pharmaceutical companies. This seems like a huge conflict of interest.

Following closely the press releases from state health premiers. They clearly had an agenda to get people
jabbed. They pushed out information that would only suit their narrative rather than being fully transparent.

Do media companies in Australia receive funding from pharmaceutical companies? Does network news
channels such as channel 9 news also receive funding? Are the experts truly independent?

What happens to your immune system when you have repeated doses of vaccines? Is there a limit?

Why was the ‘science’ different from state to state/territory?

Why weren’t politicians and judge’s mandated?
Why was there never any open debate on the ABC? It seemed only one narrative was allowed and anyone
who questioned the science was silenced or orchestrated.

Why was there secrecy with the National cabinet? How much input from lobbyists was there?

My recommendation
People want transparency. I will follow the science if it’s clearly backed by evidence. Show us the studies
and facts. Otherwise it’s propaganda. People want to see the national cabinet notes, the pharmaceutical
company contracts and the databases for health outcomes.

Allow open debate - in a free democracy there should always be experts from various sides or fields
explaining and justifying their reasoning. I know people were censored who have now turned out to be
accurate.

The modelling, media and experts were so wrong. It was all so inaccurate and clearly misleading. My guess
is that they were incentivised however if the experts or politicians get it wrong so badly they should be
sacked. Anyone who is being paid directly or incentivised indirectly must have a disclaimer when they are
speaking publicly about a pharmaceutical product. E.g. The morning show talking to an ‘expert’ needs to
have a label below saying any conflicts.

Do not allow psychological operations to happen on Australian citizens. Don’t censor or punish critics of the
government otherwise we will have no one to hold them to account.

Investigate the real origins of the virus. Seek compensation for the damages.

It is child abuse to lock up kids at home and away from school or playgrounds etc. not to mention masking
them. Especially given the extremely low risk of covid to children.

Never do vax passports. This is discrimination.

Never mandate anything! In a free country people should have the right to choose any medical treatment
without fear of losing their right to work and travel.

Cut ties with                                           as well as the^^^Hand the                They are
compromised by funding with individuals, special interest groups or countries such as China who don’t have
Australia's best interest at heart. We should never follow their advice or lead in future.
