To whom it may concern:

For 40 years I have given generously of my time and skills for the betterment of student Education
under the employment of                                                across a range of small schools
supporting student's diverse needs across Prep to year 10. There has been no recognition of this
contribution. Could this failure of recognition at the school level be due to COVID Management
Policies and Procedures?

I have followed a zero chemical diet for over 30 years, to support recovery from over exposure to
chemicals in my childhood. It would have been detrimental to my ongoing path to recovery to inject
unknown substances into my body that could compound already in existence health issues. There
were no individual considerations taken into account and no ability to portray your case. From the
word go it was a one size fits all approach and presented with less than ideal intimidation tactics
without any concern for well being of the individual.

At the commencement of forced suspension from Itinerant teaching duties I became aware that
there was nobody to fulfil my role. Early in January of 2022 I made phone contact with my base
school principal who was new in the position. I asked if it would be possible for me to electronically
be part of the pupil free days. The answer initially was yes but as time past this was not possible. As
part of my connection to my role I wanted to ensure continued support was to be provided to the
students most in need. Upon my request a face to face meeting was held in the shade of a tree on
the roadside at the front of the school with the Principal. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss
and provide current documentation of students learning needs at the base school where
confidential information was discussed. The task was completed under circumstances that were less
than ideal.

My association with my base school spans greater than three decades. Many colleagues I had
worked with for greater than 15 years, some greater than thirty years. Communication made to me
by the base school staff was limited. On an official basis I was contacted each term to see what my
vaccination plans were and when I was planning on returning to work. There was no other contact
made on an official or colleague level other than responding to electronic communication instigated
by me. No concerns were ever made by colleagues or officially for my long term well being other
than what I instigated. This was less than ideal for my physical and mental wellbeing.

At a personal level there were many deprivations of liberty impinged upon me because I was an
individual who refused to be treated with a less than ideal vaccination, by a less than ideal process,
under less than ideal conditions for a less than ideal duration of time. Some of the personal
deprivation of liberties involved: forced expenditure (at a time when potential income was limited)
to upgrade home base electronic facilities to be electronically contactable on a reliable basis;
isolation from work colleagues, forced to use long service leave that had been planned for relaxation
purposs, inability to practise face to face religious traditions at a time when spiritual support was
needed most; inefficient means of getting support for physical health, emotional health and spiritual
health requirements, which lead to a deep reliance on better than ideal family for support.
