To Whom it May Concern,
I am writing to you today to highlight some concerns I have regarding the response to the
Covid-19 pandemic in 2021.

As a law-abiding, Australian citizen, I am passionate about keeping the peace, looking out for
others and contributing as much as possible to ensure Australia is a great place for us all to
live. I am a teacher and I dearly wish for my students to see the benefits of these same
qualities. Unfortunately, in 2021/ 2022,1 was branded 'selfish', a 'murderer', a 'rebel' and
'un-Australian', among many other things.


This sudden change in my public perception occurred when I visited my doctor regarding his
recommendation for my safety in taking the Covid vaccines. This well-respected and very
experienced doctor, with decades of experience and a thorough knowledge of my allergies,
               condition and family history advised against taking the vaccines for my long­
term health and safety, given my complex pre-existing conditions. This one conversation
spiralled me into a pit of rejection, blatant discrimination and the ultimate loss of my career
for six months.


The community vitriol aimed at those who had made an informed, and often medically-
advised choice for their own bodies was quite frankly disturbing and frightening. Many
strangers, with no knowledge of my medical history suggested ignoring my doctor's advice
and just being vaccinated regardless, ironically quoting generic medical advice to support
their case.


At the root of these mandates and 'laws' prohibiting me from entering premises and my own
workplace and labelling me a danger to society, was a lack of federal government foresight
and wisdom to stand up against the medical discrimination and pass laws to ensure no one
was attacked and criticised due to their own medical history. At the very least, it should have
been the federal government's role to speak out about the senseless condemnation of
others, many of whom had valid reasons for their medical decision, and the un-Australian
way neighbours were encouraged to turn against neighbours and the Australian foundation
of mateship was shunned. I lost six months of income and my ongoing contract due to this
hatred, which permeated our community.


To this day, I am still deeply traumatised about witnessing our society descending into
frenzied chaos and how I was rejected from my job, after years of faithful service, going over
and above for my students and wider community. To this day, despite not taking any of the
vaccines, I have still not contracted Covid, despite testing on several occasions. This fact
alone leaves me feeling even more angry about the senselessness of being shunned from my
community and callously made to feel like less than human; essentially the theft of my
human rights; the rights my government is supposed to protect.


Regards,
