                                Central Australian
                                Aboriginal Congress
                                ABORIGINAL CORPORATION | ICN 7823




             Submission to the COVID-ig Response Inquiry Panel
             December 2023

             Key findings and recommendations
            A. Aboriginal community controlled health services (ACCHSs) played a key role in keeping
               COVID-19 mortality in Aboriginal communities much lower than that experienced by
               comparable First Nations communities in other parts of the world. ACCHSs provided a
               platform for the provision of culturally responsive comprehensive primary health care
               integrating community engagement and health promotion; population level infectious
               disease control including access to and promotion of vaccination; advocacy for healthy
               public policy; and treatment and support for those with COVID and their families.

             B. Initially there was a high degree of collaborative planning between ACCHSs and
                Government health sector in the Northern Territory. However, widespread community
                transmission from January 2022 led almost immediately to NT government health
                services in Central Australia abandoning these plans, specifically in relation to
                supervised quarantine, Test, Trace, Isolate and Quarantine (TTIQ) procedures,
                provision of timely data, and accurate reporting of COVID Deaths in line with the
                nationally agreed definition.

             C. Aboriginal community controlled health services are an essential part of the Australian
                health system, and should be formally recognised as such. ACCHSs require ongoing
                resourcing from a dedicated funding stream to deliver comprehensive primary
                health care which includes the capacity to partner with state and territory agencies on
                communicable disease control; on the continuing effects of COVID-19 and other
                communicable disease outbreaks such as TB; and preparation for future pandemics.
                This includes meeting infrastructure, recurrent and staffing costs.

             D. The Australian Government, in collaboration with the ACCHS sector, should develop
                and implement system-level reforms for the equitable distribution of key primary
                health care and public health personnel across all regions of Australia, and address
                the employment of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people at all levels of the public
                health system.

             E. The Australian Centre for Disease Control currently being established should adopt as
                one of its key roles the provision of timely, accurate and consistent data at a
                regional and subregional level to inform local public health responses including at a
                minimum the number of COVID deaths, excess mortality, and rates of long COVID.

             F. To overcome continued vaccine hesitancy, the Australian Government should support
                ACCHSs to deliver community-specific messaging including in local languages; well-
                resourced outreach services; and incentives for people to get vaccinated.

             G. Given the very high number of Aboriginal people unable to safely isolate at home in
               future outbreaks, Government needs to prepare regional isolation facilities that
               can be stood up at short notice, and which include separate quarantine facilities.
Central Australian Aboriginal Congress
Aboriginal Corporation
ABN 76 210 591 710 | ICN 7823
PO Box 1604, Alice Springs NT 0871                                       Aboriginal health
(08) 8951 4400 | www.caac.org.au                                            in Aboriginal hands
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                            Page 2

About us
1. Central Australian Aboriginal Congress (Congress) is a large Aboriginal Community
   Controlled Health Service (ACCHS) based in Mparntwe (Alice Springs). We are one of
   the most experienced organisations in the country in Aboriginal health, a national leader
   in primary health care (PHC), and a strong advocate for the health of our people.
   Congress services over 17,000 Aboriginal people living in Mparntwe and remote
   communities in Central Australia.

2. Our submission is based on our experience of delivering comprehensive primary health
   care including multidisciplinary clinical care; health promotion and disease prevention
   programs; and action on the social, cultural, economic and political determinants of
   health. Over the last four years Congress has led an effective integrated and
   multidisciplinary public health response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Central Australia.



Congress' response to the COVID-19 pandemic1
Background
3. Aboriginal people in Central Australia experienced many devastating infectious disease
   epidemics during the non-Indigenous invasion of our lands [1]. Aboriginal peoples also
   suffered disproportionately from subsequent pandemics: during the 1919 Influenza
   pandemic, mortality rates in our region are estimated to have been amongst the highest
   in the world (about 260 per thousand) [2]. During the 2009 H1NI influenza pandemic,
   hospitalisation rates for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in Australia were
   8.5 times those for non-Indigenous people, and mortality rates six times higher [3].

4. Congress and other Aboriginal organisations in Central Australia were therefore highly
   concerned from early 2020 about the potential catastrophic impact of COVID-19. These
   concerns were borne out by the devastating impact of COVID-19 on First Nation, Black
   and low-income communities elsewhere in the world [4, 5].

5. The vulnerability of our communities stems from high levels of poverty, over-crowded
   housing, low levels of literacy, high rates of chronic disease and an inadequately
   resourced health system comparative to need.

6. In addition, many in the Aboriginal community were concerned about the particular
   threat the virus posed to our Elders. The loss of Elders would mean a loss of extensive
   and valuable cultural knowledge. As Pat Turner, the leader of our community-controlled
   Aboriginal health services sector nationally, said at the time [6]:

        They are the holders of our history and our knowledge and losing our old people
        would be like burning down a library.

7. As a result, throughout the pandemic Congress was advocating for the strongest
   possible public health response, while delivering a range of culturally responsive
   programs to keep our communities safe. With this strong community support, the
   Northern Territory Government adopted strict border controls which prevented
   community transmission in the Territory until borders were opened in December 2021,
   after which widespread and uncontrolled community transmission spread rapidly across
   the Northern Territory (see Attachment, Graph 1).


1 Refers to term of reference 'Key health response measures'




 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                           December 2023
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                           Page 3

Pandemic Service Model
8. Early in 2020, in anticipation of the threat of COVID-19, Congress developed and
   implemented a Pandemic Service Model across all service delivery sites that included:

   •    infection control measures,
   •    provision of services by telehealth and outreach wherever possible, including the
        home delivery of medicines,
   •    support for government quarantine measures, and
   •    provision of testing through the Congress Respiratory Clinic.

Community engagement and health promotion
9. Congress' clinical responses were supported by extensive community messaging and
   engagement including:

   •    radio and television advertisements and service announcements in English and
        Central Australian Aboriginal languages,
   •    social media (including Facebook posts sharing news, stakeholder posts, original
        posts, 'myth-busting', and promoting 'vaccine ambassadors',
   •    information flyers / banners / mailouts including "No footy, No festivals, No fun"
        campaign,
   •    vaccine service promotion posters (town and remote),
   •    "Community Immunity" beanies and promotional posters,
   •    media events and appearances including around vaccination of key leaders, and
   •    support of outreach through attendance and community engagement.

Increasing vaccination rates
10. In common with many marginalised populations living in poverty, vaccine hesitancy
   was common amongst Aboriginal people in Central Australia. There are many reasons
   for this hesitancy. For some, there was a historical and understandable distrust of a
   mainstream health system that had been officially racially segregated until the late
    1960s and implicated in policies of child-removal. Others were confused or made fearful
   by misinformation about vaccinations and COVID-19 on social media. However, there
   were there are many community members who were not fundamentally opposed to
   vaccination, but who waited to get vaccinated until they perceived the threat to be
   imminent. This pattern was also seen in non-Indigenous populations during the
   pandemic (for example in the large increase in demand for vaccination when the Delta
   outbreak occurred in Sydney), and is reflected in the spike of vaccinations when
   outbreaks occurred in the Northern Territory.

11. Congress worked hard to increase the COVID-19 vaccination rate amongst Aboriginal
   people in Central Australia as soon as vaccines became available in early 2021. This
   included:

   •    establishing a dedicated COVID-19 Vaccination Clinic at the Gap Road clinic,
   •    use of financial incentives ($25 shopping vouchers) for all those being vaccinated,
   •    promotion of planned and opportunistic vaccinations at all Congress remote clinics,
   •    a house-to-house outreach program in Alice Springs town camps,
   •    a 'pop up clinic' and community engagement at local shopping centres and sporting
        events,
   •    engagement and vaccination of renal patients, and
   •    promoting and delivery of vaccinations amongst Congress staff.




 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                           December 2023
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                           Page 4

    Between February 2021 and July 2022, Congress delivered over 18,000 COVID-19
    vaccinations (see Attachment, Graph 2).

12. Congress also published peer reviewed articles that had a key impact on national
   Aboriginal vaccination policy and the subsequent allocation of funding to support the
   employment of Aboriginal community engagement officers to work alongside nurses in
   going to door to door to promote vaccination [7, 8].

Advocacy for healthy public policy
13. From early 2020, Congress advocated strongly with government and a range of other
   agencies to promote a focus on keeping Aboriginal communities safe through public
    health measures such as border and travel restrictions; vaccination; and safe and
   appropriate isolation and quarantine measures. Our advocacy included:

    •   membership of key public health decision-making bodies including the Northern
        Territory Public Health Advisory Group (PHAG) and the national Aboriginal and
        Torres Strait Islander Advisory Group on COVID-19,
    •   advocacy to Northern Territory Government including Health Department staff and
        Ministers by letter, email and in meetings,
    •   letters and contact with community groups to counter vaccine misinformation, and
    •   radio and print media.

Response to the outbreaks
14. In late 2021, the Australian Government pushed forward with plans to ease COVID-19
    public health and travel restrictions [9]. Congress and other Aboriginal organisations
   such as the Aboriginal Medical Services Alliance Northern Territory (AMSANT) and Land
   Councils argued that Northern Territory borders should remain closed until vaccination
    rates for Aboriginal people aged 16 and over were at 90% or more. This position was
    based on modelling from the Doherty Institute, and on the greater risk of the emerging
   Omicron variant [7].

15. However, the Northern Territory Government pushed ahead with opening the NT
    borders from 20 December 2021. This led to immediate widespread and uncontrolled
   community transmission.

16. It was at this point that a great deal of the collaborative work between government and
   the Aboriginal health sector that had been carried out previously was undone in Central
   Australia. Many of response plans that had been made cooperatively between
   Government and the Aboriginal community controlled health sector during 2020 and
   2021 were abandoned by government health services immediately, as follows.

    a. Supervised Quarantine: Agreed plans specified that positive cases would be
       immediately removed to appropriate supervised isolation from households where it
       was not feasible for them to safely isolate (as was the case for many Aboriginal
       people living in overcrowded housing). Instead, many were left in crowded houses
       for more than 48 hours by which time the virus had spread within and between
       households and then to other town camps, remote communities and houses.

    b. Test, Trace, Isolate and Quarantine. TTIQ responses were abandoned such that
       when there was a super spreader event at a New Year's Eve Party in Alice Springs
       it was already deemed not appropriate to take this approach. This was partly
       because predictably the workforce capacity for TTIQ was dramatically reduced due
       to opening the borders during the Christmas holiday leave period. The government's
       TTIQ system was rapidly overwhelmed. Subsequently, much of the responsibility


 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                          December 2023
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                                                  Page 5

        for TTIQ in relation to the Aboriginal community was transferred without formal
        negotiation or agreement from government to Aboriginal community controlled
        health services.

    c. Data systems broke down and it was some time before Congress could get a picture
       from government of numbers of cases by region or locality, information which was
       essential for a coordinated and planned response.

    d. Under-reporting of COVID Deaths. It became apparent that the number of COVID
       deaths according to the nationally agreed definition was being under-reported by
       government health services in Central Australia.

Success of the Aboriginal community controlled response
17. While every preventable death is a tragedy, and despite the failure of government to
    implement agreed response plans once community transmission occurred, the Northern
   Territory was successful in protecting the Aboriginal community from COVID.

18. Unfortunately, we are not aware of any published data for the Northern Territory
   specifically of the numbers of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander deaths from COVID-
    19. During the pandemic, Congress collated NT CDC Situation Reports which suggest
   that there were 73 deaths in the Northern Territory from December 2021 to September
   2022 inclusive; with 14 of these occurring in Central Australia (see Attachment, Graph
   3). However, these were not disaggregated by Aboriginality. Nor do they take account
   of the under-reporting of deaths by the Northern Territory health system.

19. However, we note that the Navajo Nation in the United States, with a similar health
   and social determinants profile to that of Aboriginal communities in Central Australia,
    has suffered around 2,400 COVID deaths in a population of around 300,000: a mortality
    rate of around 0.8% [5]. A similar rate in Central Australia would have seen around
    160 Aboriginal deaths. While we do not know the true numbers, and notwithstanding
   the long-term health effects of COVID infection, the number of Aboriginal deaths in
   Central Australia is certainly considerably less than this.

20. The Aboriginal community controlled health sector - which provides a very high
    proportion of primary health care to the Aboriginal communities of Central Australia -
   was a key part of this success. It provided a strong platform from which to carry out
   community engagement and health promotion; vaccination; support for healthy public
    policy; and treatment and support for those with COVID and their families.



A better prepared, more effective system for addressing
the needs of Aboriginal communities2
Dedicated funding of Aboriginal community controlled health services
21. There is considerable community-controlled expertise in Aboriginal health provided by
   ACCHSs. The sector has the accumulated experience and authority of over fifty years
   of operation and embodies the integration of public health; communicable disease
    management and control; chronic disease prevention and management; and responses
   to emerging health impacts (e.g. infectious disease, climate change). There are


2 Refers to term of reference 'Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
populations'




 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                                             December 2023
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                              Page 6

    common root causes to many of the health issues facing Aboriginal communities and
    we need an integrated and comprehensive approach and not a vertical program or
    siloed approach to action. This is what the ACCHS sector has a lot of expertise in.

22. The COVID pandemic has shown once more that Aboriginal community controlled
    health services like Congress are an essential part of the Australian health system, and
   should be formally recognised as such. The ACCHS sector in the Northern Territory and
    nationally therefore needs ongoing resourcing from a dedicated funding stream to
   deliver comprehensive primary health care. This should include includes the capacity
   to partner with state and territory communicable disease agencies on the continuing
   effects of COVID-19; other communicable disease outbreaks such as TB; and
    preparation for future pandemics. The significant infrastructure, recurrent and staffing
   costs to ensure that primary health care can continue to be provided safely will also
    need to be met.

Primary health care and public health workforce
23. Australia is facing a substantial primary health care workforce crisis that is particularly
   severe in regional and remotes areas. This workforce crisis seriously affects the
   capacity of ACCHSs and governments to respond to health issues - especially disease
   outbreaks - in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities.

24. The Australian Government, in collaboration with the ACCHS sector, should develop
   and implement system-level reforms for the equitable distribution of key primary health
   care and public health personnel across all regions of Australia, and to address the
   employment of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people at all levels of the public
    health system.

Data and reporting
25. One of the challenges throughout the COVID-19 pandemic was getting timely, accurate
   and consistent data at a regional and subregional level to inform local public health
    responses, and to enable the community to make informed and safe decisions about
   their own health. We believe the Australian Centre for Disease Control currently being
   established could make a major contribution in addressing this gap. Transparent,
    regular, public data should be released at the regional level, and at a minimum should
    include COVID deaths, excess mortality, and rates of long COVID.

Supporting vaccination
26. As noted in paragraph 10 above, there was a high level of vaccine hesitancy amongst
   some Aboriginal people which combined with poor access to primary health care in
    many areas of the Northern Territory contributed to low vaccination rates in many
   Aboriginal communities. ACCHSs, as trusted providers of culturally responsive primary
    health care, are critical to addressing this situation, including during the continuing
   effects of COVID-19 and in response to other infectious disease outbreaks.

27. To overcome vaccine hesitancy, the Australian Government should support ACCHSs
   across Australia to deliver:

    •   community-specific, relevant messaging that hits the mark for Aboriginal people,
        including messaging in local language(s)
    •   well-resourced outreach services that reach people in their homes and communities
    •   incentives for people to get vaccinated including financial incentives (e.g. -store /
        shopping vouchers or non-financial (e.g. vaccine passports for travel, access to
        restaurants and sporting events for all citizens)



 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                             December 2023
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                                      Page 7

Isolation and quarantine facilities
28. Given the very high number of Aboriginal people who are unable to safely isolate at
    home, in planning for future outbreaks of COVID or other infectious diseases,
   Government needs to prepare regional isolation facilities that can be stood up at short
    notice. There will also need to be quarantine facilities: these could be established as a
   separate part of a single facility.




References
1.      Reynolds H, The other side of the frontier : Aboriginal resistance to the European invasion
        of Australia (2nd ed.). 1995, Sydney: Penguin Books.
2.      Gara T. The 1919 Influenza pandemic and its impact on Aboriginal people in South
        Australia. 2019; Available from: http://www.ananqu.com.au/index.php/documents.html .
3.      Australian Government Department of Health. Seasonal influenza, pandemic influenza and
        pneumonia. 2013; Available from:
        https://wwwl.health.qov.au/internet/publications/publishinq.nsf/Content/cda-
        cdi37suppl.htm~02-vpds~2-4-influenza.
4.      Koma W, et al. Low-Income and Communities of Color at Higher Risk of Serious Illness if
        Infected with Coronavirus. 2020 7 May 2020]; Available from: https://www.kff.org/.
5.      Navajo Department of Health. Dikos Ntsaafgff-19 (COVID-19). 2023 12 December 2023];
        Ava i I a b I e fro m: https://nec.navaio-nsn.qov/Proiects/Infectious-Disease/COVID-19 .
6.      McAllister, J. Indigenous leaders warn 'if coronavirus gets into our communities, we are
        gone'. ABC News 2020; Available from: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-03-20/dire-
        warninq-on-coronavirus-for-indiqenous-communities/12076420 .
7.      Komesaroff, P.A., et al., COVID-19 restrictions should only be lifted when it is safe to do so
        for Aboriginal communities. Intern Med J, 2021. 51(11): p. 1806-1809.
8.      Komesaroff P, et al. Vaccinations need to reach 90% of First Nations adults and teens to
        protect vulnerable communities. 2021; Available from:
        https://theconversation.com/vaccinations-need-to-reach-90-of-first-nations-adults-and-
        teens-to-protect-vulnerable-communities-167800.
9.      Senate Select Committee on COVID-19, Final Report. 2022, Commonwealth of Australia:
        Canberra.




 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                                    December 2023
Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                                                                                                        Page 8


GRAPHi
                                              Number of new COVID cases per day, December 2021 to July 2022
               1500




               1250




               1000

                                                                                                     Central Australia
       W,
       0J1/3
       3
       5        750
       ii1
       c
      ‘o                                                                                                       15/6/2021
       QJ                                                                                                       NT Public
      _Q
       E
       =■                                                                                                            Hea ith
      z
                500                                                                 A                          Emergency
                                                                                                                     end's
                        20/12/2021: NT                                                    11
                        border reopens


                250




                  o :
                30/11/2021      30/12/2021   29/01/2022   2B/02/2O22   30/03/2022       29/04/2022      29/05/2022             28/06/2022   28/07/2022    27/08/2022




Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel                                                                                                        December 2023
Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                                                                                                                                                              Page 9


GRAPH 2
                                 COVID Vaccines given at Congress by type and month, Feb 2021- Jun 2022
3000                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3000
                                                     Cases and lockdowns in Greater Darwin,                            2,809          n?




2500
                                                     Katherine region, Lajamanuetc


                                                                                NT workers required
                                                                                                                                      o a.
                                                                                                                                           o   2,609
                                                                                                                                                                                             18,378                    2500
                                                                                  to be vaccinated                                                                                            vaccines given
                                                                                                                                                                 Widespread
                                                                                 (1st by 12 Nov, 2nd
                                                                                                                                                                 community
                                                                                                                                                                                              as at 16 July 2022
                                                                                      by 24 Dec}                                     2,082
                                                                                                                                                                transmission in
2000                                                                                                                                                                 Central                                           2000
                                                                                      Congress vaccine                                                               Australia
                                                                                            Intensive
                  Tanami outbreak, lockdowns                                                                            1107
                  in Darwin, Alice Springs                   1,409
1500                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1500
                                                                          1,307           1,265          1,234                                                           1,196
                                                   1,067                                                                                                   1,081

1000                                                                                                                                               707                                                                 1000


                                                                                516                        437
                                                                                             579                                                                                             667
                                                                                                                                                                                             "er     539
                                        4^3
 500                       369                                                                                                                                                                                370      500
                                                                                                                                                                                                     221

                 147                                                                                                                                                           257           411
         9                                                                                                                                                                                   99
                                         397        660           647                        679           739                                                                                                 45
   o    —                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
       F*-21              Apr-21                   JiA-21        Jul-21    Ai*-21          sep-21         OH'21        Ntw-21        Dec-21       Jjh-22    F«&-22        Mar-ZZ         Apt-22     MiyZZ     JiA-22

                                   gpfiier(l|   EAsnaBenMa (1J     ■Other (1|     Q Pfiier [2]     □ AstraZeneca (2)   ■ Other (1]    aWiier(3)     ■Otherj3|   Ll Pfisw (4}         TOTAL




Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inguiry Panel                                                                                                                                                           December 2023
 Central Australian Aboriginal Congress                                                                                      Page 10


GRAPH 3
                            Reported COVID-19 deaths, Northern Territory, by month (Dec 21 to Sep 22)
                  25
                                                     20

                  20
                                                     2      16
                                                     2
                  15
                                                                                                          io
                                                     9
                  10                                        2
                                                            2         1
                                                                      2
                                                                                                 2         9
                                                                      6




                                  □ Top End     □ Central Australia   □ Big Rivers   □ East Arnhem   □ Barkly


Note that these figures were compiled contemporaneously from NT Health Department CDC Situation Reports which were made available
on https://health.nt.qov.au/covid-19/data . These reports are no longer publicly available. Due to Central Australian government health
services not reporting COVID-91 deaths in line with the nationally agreed definition, these numbers should be considered a minimum.




 Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inguiry Panel                                                                       December 2023
