My name is^^^|and I was an individual employee during the COVID-19 situation.
I was an employee for 14 years within an international organisation. I was stood
down with no written explanation and no risk assessment completed on the
vaccination I was being requested to have. When I asked further question,
alternative working arrangements I was never provided any formal documentation.
All I was told is that I wasn’t even allowed to enter the workplace even as a
customer. I was forced to take all leave entitlements until they were all used up, then
taken unpaid leave. I lost my position, my work vehicle, and my pay rate when I was
finally allowed to return to work after the mandates were lifted. There was a mass
amount of mental stress and financial stress due to the governments un-scientific
measures. And mass amounts of segregation and being ostracized for work and
society over what now is nothing more then a strain of the flu.

My wife had to return to working from home early from maternity leave in order to
financially support the family as we are both against experimental vaccinations. This
obviously puts a greater strain on her, while trying to be a parent to an infant and
work at the same time.

I am personally disgusted with our government’s treatment of the whole situation.
The government did not act in the best interest of the population of our state or our
country, in terms of our health, both physical and mental health and not to mention
the serious government debt that was accumulated with all of the lockdowns, people
receiving government payments in the form of job keeper and Covid-19 payments. A
generational debt that will take years for the taxpayer to return to surplus.

There would be no need for financial support from the government if all of these
lockdowns (which did not seem to control the spread of “infections” being reported in
the media) did not happen. If an employee was sick from any illness, they have an
allocation of sick leave to use. If you don’t have any leave, then it is what it is and
you take unpaid leave. Casual employees don’t accrue leave, but they get paid at a
higher rate than part time or full time employees to cover the instance in which they
are unable to work for whatever reason. You don’t see cancer patients getting
additional paid time off work to attend treatments, so why should well people be
getting paid job keeper, to not even attend work and to stay home in the interest of
“public safety”

Being forced in to either losing your job and ability to earn an honest income or take
part in an experimental vaccination with unknown side effects, unknown support
should you suffer any side effects and then to not only be forced in to 1 vaccination,
but up to 3 vaccinations just to be able to keep your job completely contradicts
informed consent, but rather is coercive and forced consent. So much for Australia’s
policy on in order for any medical treatment to be untaken in Australian, informed
consent needs to be provided under Australian Charter of Healthcare Rights.
https://www.safetyandqualitv.qov.au/consumers/workinq-your-healthcare-
provider/australian-charter-healthcare-riqhts .

Forcing children in to being vaccinated in order to partake in sporting activities is
absolutely horrendous. A child cannot give informed consent, especially over a
matter they are unable to fully understand and was not fairly or appropriately
advertised in the media. Every ad campaign was to get vaccinated and completely
ignored any risks associated in doing so. Which screams coercion to a generation
that we have an obligation to protect. Now there are mass amounts of youth with
heart issues and breathing issues which have all arisen since the vaccinations.

My recommendation to the government for any future “pandemics” is to not
completely and utterly abuse your power to manipulate the population in to
confirming to experimental procedures when they have no concrete medical or
scientific facts to support them. If a vaccination should be proven to be beneficial, it
needs to be optional and not forced down everyone’s throat, because where there is
risk, there must be choice and at the end of the day every individual has the right to
accept or refuse any and or all medical treatment based on their own beliefs.
Anything other than this is bodily treason caused by the government, who now want
to deny all responsibility or accountability of their actions.

Inconsistency in the application of vaccine mandates also proves interesting as state
employees were required to have 3 vaccinations to be considered fully vaccinated
and yet federal employees did not fall under the same requirements.
