Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
PO Box 6500
Canberra ACT 2600

Submission by Bronwen Whyatt to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry AKA Convid ‘inquiry’

When a prominent comedienne in the UK called their enquiry into ‘Convidl9’ a pantomime,
I’d have to say I agree with her. And my country’s ‘inquiry’ is basically just theatre also. It
will, as she predicted, justify the ushering in of yet more authoritarian medical directions in
future scamdemics via the non-elected international body known as the World ‘Health’
Organisation and their ‘Pandemic’ Treaty. Yes, you intend for there to be more, we have no
doubt. How else do you scare the population these days?

I am here to put on the record:

I consider the last 3 years to also be total theatre. I do not consent to your scare­
mongering and manipulation. All policy ‘levers’ that were adjusted during the last 3
years, failed to guarantee Australian’s health and succeeded in entrenching non-earned
government control of a once free population. I do not consent to any such controls in
future. I do not consent to any alignment of Australian health policy to any
international body. I consider this ‘inquiry’ a farce, and insult to all Australians who
have lost loved ones both to a disease labelled as ‘Covidl9’, and to injuries and deaths
from the^^^^^^|, mistakenly referred to as a ‘vaccine. I also do not consent to a bill
gagging Australians speaking about these issues - ‘misinformation’ is only
‘inconvenient’ information that does not align with government ‘policy’.

This is why I feel compelled to write to voice my concerns about this non-inquiry the
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet is conducting.

I was a cello teacher in a^^^H school who had just 9 months before, begun teaching in that
capacity in the beautiful high country of Victoria. I was keen to advance my musical teaching
capabilities within an environment of reflection on the wholistic development of children.

My experiences of the policies of Convidl9 was total.

In the first year, 2020,1 was locked down in a small 1-bedroom unit
and locked in and out around 5 times over that time, expected to try to teach the cello online,
not just to one student at a time, but in groups of up to 3 students.

Despite being in excellent health for the whole time, I was masked, forced to comply with
useless and completely arbitrary 1.5m ‘social’ distancing requirements, limited to a 5km
radius of my home while at the same time, being expected to ‘contribute’ my paid labour to a
school that was receiving a whole lot of money to go along with the ruse. A school, by the
way, that encouraged me to go on Job Keeper, because for some reason they thought it was a
good idea.

By the end of this first year of Convidl9,1 decided that I could not bear this authoritarian
(and clearly pointless policy approach), and neede^^ge^ut of the city. Luckily I was
successful in gaining employment 2 % hours fron^^^^^^H and I thought I might be ‘safe’
from the lockdowns. I wasn’t. They continued to be called, to the extent that I, in my area,
(despite no cases for months in the high country), was locked down a total of 8 times over
2020/2021.

For the whole of 2021,1 commuted, as I had another teaching job for two days in the city,
and also volunteered in a public radio announcers role on^^^. and was considered
‘essential’. ‘Essential’ for 2021, until I was basically sacked by all three, and have been
virtually unemployed ever since.

To say that the last three years has had a devastating impact on my life, is clearly an
understatement, and the psychological impact of this on my mental health, total. Going from
‘essential’ to being discarded because I couldn’t give ‘informed consent’ to a drug trial, is one
of the biggest insults inflicted on me as a citizen of my country', and resident of a state.

What is a greater insult, is having to be quiet, while people around me die years ahead of
their time, and are dealing with injuries small and large from having taken this experimental
DNA-altering toxic substance.

You need only look at the tsunami-like statistics released by the Australian Bureau of
Statistics showing 2022’s 20,000 excess deaths (ABS website 27/9/23). Government silence
on this is deafening, and I choose to define your policy decisions over the last 3 years as
democide. There is no other word for it. In 2023, excess death conunues at over / % (ABS
website 24/11/23). You know this is catastrophic, and yet, you continue, seemingly ^H-bent
on killing and injuring Australians.

If this doesn’t demonstrate huge policy failure at the Commonwealth level, I don’t know
what does. And what’s more, National Cabinet would have known about the elevated excess
death rate at the end of 2021/beginning of 2022, and the fact that you did not advise
Australians about this shows gross negligence, and I contend, as already mentioned, an act of
democide.

I hold the federal government completely responsible for every death, and will below
outline why each agency they oversee has been an instrument in this democide.

Terms of Reference
Considering the real impact of Convidl9 was experienced by Australians suffering under the
misguided and ineffective policies of States and Territories, the choice (and yes - your choice
is noted), to limit the spotlight to the actions of the Commonwealth Government is telling at
best, and criminal at worst.

(By the way, I use the term ‘Common-wealth’ loosely, and cannot decide whether to believe
the ‘common’ part of the word, or the immense amounts of ‘wealth’ transferred to Australia’s
billionaires during the last 3 years. It could certainly not refer to any wealth enjoyed by
common people of Australia).

The limits of your ‘Terms of Reference’ to only the impacts of federal levels of government is
an insult to working Australians, all those that laboured throughout 2021, especially in
Victoria, jumping with sometimes 4 hours-notice in and out of lockdown, while having to
have the mental health and well-being of vulnerable Australian children at heart. There are no
words to describe how cowardly your ‘Convid 19’ ‘enquiry’ is. And I have a great deal of
disdain for your lack of transparency and accountability.

After just 3 months in 2020, the statistics of the Our  d      ata website confirmed what
would later become well-known, and that is that the chances of survival of the virus were
overwhelmingly high, and that any forms of ‘public health response’, from mask-wearing,
distancing, lock-downs etc etc, were next to useless.

No adherence to any concept resembling human rights
Federal adherence to international treaties on Human Rights has been nil. It is my
understanding that you have breached numerous treaties guaranteeing the rights of your
citizens. I note and fully support the submission made by Peter Fam (of Maat’s Method) in
relation to these aspects.

In early 2022,1 interestedly read the Biosecurity Act 2015, and from what I understood of it,
you didn’t even follow it. What use is legislation if you don’t refer to it?

National Cabinet
“On 13 March 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the National Cabinet was
established ‘ to coordinate and deliver a consistent national response to the Covid-19
pandemic’ Since its inception, National Cabinet has met more than 60 times.
Source: ‘Next Steps for National Cabinet’

Usurping COAG with an undemocratic alternative ‘council’ - why? Not only this, but it
clearly failed in its ‘mandate’ - there was no consistent response. Every state did as it
pleased, demonstrating with no doubt, that there was absolutely no ‘science’ in any of the
responses, anywhere. This was an utter failure and a waste of tax-payer money. The fact that
it has met over 60 times is appalling, in it’s ad hoc, non-transparent and non-democratic way.
It should be abolished, and maligned for its anti-democratic functioning, and it’s disregard for
long-established parliamentary and democratic processes.

I hold the federal government responsible for the losses endured by Australians. Their
loss of livelihoods, economic downturns, closure of businesses, lack of education of
children, delay in child development caused by excessive (and unscientifically proven)
mask-wearing and inappropriate (in terms of child development) social isolation.

I hold the federal government responsible for the division of the community into ‘pro
and anti’ covid policy, and the destruction of friendships, families, marriages and
community in the process.

I hold the federal government responsible for taking away Australian’s right to bury
their loved ones, and celebrate their lives, and mourn their losses.

I hold the federal government responsible for isolating mothers on the verge of the most
important thresholds of their lives - motherhood, and birth. And for the intrusion into
Australian’s lives at celebrations of marriages, milestones and birthdays. Australia
might never recover from this gross invasion and manipulation of good and ordinary
people’s lives.
I hold the federal government in its Convid policy failure, responsible for the ongoing
crisis in health and education. Thousands of Australians were prevented from working in
schools and hospitals due to declining injection, and the system is now reeling. I was told by
someone who worked for Coles (supermarket chain that gained enormously during this time
and was in constant negotiation about the ‘policy’ conditions on them) that 7% of their
100,000 workforce was mandated - that’s 7,000 Australians. What are you not telling us the
real statistics of ‘vaccination’?

‘Therapeutic’ Goods Administration
“We are Australia's government authority responsible for evaluating, assessing and
monitoring products that are defined as therapeutic goods. We regulate medicines, medical
devices and biologicals to help Australians stay healthy and safe.”

The TGA is currently failing in all parts of its mandate. It has not effectively evaluated,
assessed or monitored the pathetic excuses for ‘therapeutic goods’ known as COVID19
‘vaccines’.^^^^■has been withdrawn due to devastating health consequences for
especially men, but in reality, to anyone. Who gets compensation for this policy blunder?

I call on the Australian government to immediately suspend all COVID19 ‘vaccines’ due
to their danger to health.

I reference excellent work done by Artist as Family:

Politicians worldwide can no longer claim ignorance of harm - an open letter to an MP,
November 25th, 2023

Australia was sold “95% safe & effective” Covid vaccines, so where are we now?
June 8, 2022

And by Dr John Campbell - who has been commenting on this now for over a year:

Excess deaths in 2023 Confirmed (YouTube)

Thousands dying, and no-one saying anything. To me, that spells massive policy failure,
regardless of its cause.

I hold the federal government responsible in their oversight of the TGA.

Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency

“The Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency works in partnership with the
National Boards to ensure that Australia’s registered health practitioners are suitably trained,
qualified and safe to practise. Public safety is our priority.”

AHPRA is currently grossly negligent in its mandate, in that practitioners are being gagged
and not being allowed to discuss real risks of novel drug treatments with their patients, or to
raise any concerns or issues about ‘Covidl9’ or the various treatments of it.
Numerous health professionals have either left the profession or are actively being publicly
humiliated and vilified for speaking out about all aspects of the ‘public safety’ response to
Convid. Their remit to first do no harm has been suspended due to the letter that was sent to
them by AHPRA -1 hope this letter will be tabled to the ‘inquiry’.

Federal government is responsible for the current failures all around the country, of our once
great health system -1 hold you accountable for this travesty. Many professionals have raised
concerns, that government and the AHPRA continue to ignore, and worse, defend.

Excess Deaths: The Elephant in the Room. The Australian Medical Professionals Society

Cat got your Tongue? Silenced by AHPRA Discernable (Facebook)

I hold the federal government responsible through its oversight of AHPRA.

Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation

It is pretty clear that in the role of ATAGI (5 dot points from its website), there are only two
words that might imply any level of public health. They are the last two words - ‘vaccine
safety’. And this to me speaks volumes about the lack of care of public health that the
administering of ‘vaccines’ gives.

The current Covidl9 ‘vaccines’ are not technically vaccines; they do not prevent either
spread or infection of what is labelled ‘Covidl9’.

Does the truth about GMOs in food and pharmaceuticals lie in the funding behind the
message? Artist as Family August 10, 2023.

The side-effects are extensive, and I hold the federal government, through its oversight
of ATAGI, responsible for this damage.

Covid-19 vaccine claims scheme

“The COVID-19 vaccine claims scheme gives people a way to seek compensation instead of
going through legal proceedings.” (From website)

Transparency about this scheme is woeful. There are concerns that Australians will not be
compensated effectively for the pain and suffering (and death!) that is caused by this
‘vaccine’. I am devastated that my tax dollars will be compensating fellow-Australians for
the next (however many?) years, sheltering drug companies that should be paying the price of
‘medications’ that are neither safe, nor effective.

I hold the federal government responsible for this, not to mention, for the blowout in the
cost of the NDIS when injured people make claims when they can no longer function
properly or hold down jobs due to ‘vaccine’ injuries.

Bronwen Whyatt
BA (Hons), BMus, Grad Dip Mus, Grad Dip Ed
