To the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

Your Inquiry, limited as it is by the terms of reference, entirely lacks public legitimacy. It is
insulting to the Australian public.

You must understand that these issues entirely transcend politics. Every year that goes by
without an account of what Australian governments did to their peoples is a year where
fundamental division is reinforced, anger multiplies and mistrust turns into hatred. These
lead to consequences that are not political in nature if the political system cannot address
them with public legitimacy.

I request a Royal Commission to replace this inquiry. The Commission must impartially
examine:

-State Governments' response to the pandemic

-Federal Government's response to the pandemic

It must examine issues such as:

-Decisions to impose lockdowns based on modelling data

-The public health basis and effects of mandates

-Whether the public health messaging was truthful or just intended to manipulate behaviour

-Whether treatment procurements, approvals or bans were corrupt or conducted without
appropriate public scrutiny

-Whether Australian governments and agencies censored doctors or members of the public

-The nature of Australia's subsequent excess mortality

-The state of the doctor-patient relationship and the mass violation of medical consent, with
particular attention paid to those who suffered economic and social persecution at the
hands of government decision-makers and the experience of those who were injured by
injections they were pressured to take

-Whether Australia's pandemic response overall has inflicted permanent damage to the rule
of law, the validity of our institutions including especially our health systems, the Australian
economy, and the well-being of our youngest generation.

Although I am requesting a Royal Commission to replace this inquiry, know that I don't
believe any Australian government will have the courage to address these issues. I expect
you will dismiss this submission. The social contract has been so thoroughly desecrated that
as far as I am concerned, we don't have a country anymore - we have a blind, vicious,
malevolent machine preying upon the people living in this land.
A Royal Commission is the minimum initiative you need to show that you have any respect
for public transparency, the rule of law and the separation of powers. It will not be enough
to restore public trust, however. You will need to admit wrongdoing, and there will be
widespread prosecutions and a                                     is the best possible
outcome you can hope for.

Good luck with your gaslighting.
