Good morning,

I would like to make a submission to the Covid-19 response enquiry.

My name is Kathy Ran and I have lived through the whole experience, while living in Brisbane,
Queensland and watched with complete disbelief as the whole thing was rolled out.

Firstly, I would very strongly like to suggest that a full Royal Commission be held into the whole
response to this whole thing from the beginning to the present, as this is still ongoing, and is likely to
be ongoing for many years, possibly decades.

I would also very strongly suggest that all the responses from all the states and territories also be
included in any terms, whether just an enquiry or full blown Royal Commission. Each state had their
own response and handled things differently, and if they are not included, a full picture of what
occurred will not be possible.

This is imperative if the first term of reference is to be addressed properly.

I will now address a few other terms of reference as per the scope.

KEY HEALTH RESPONSE MEASURES. Firstly, just about every single country in the world, including
Australia, as a pandemic response proposal or document. Why was Australia's specific pandemic
response ignored and not followed at all during the outbreak of Covid? This document has
previously stated that the vulnerable should be isolated and if necessary, they would receive first
PROVEN and TESTED vaccines. None of the so called vaccines that were rolled out for SARS CoV-2
were either proven or tested properly. As it turns out they were neither safe nor effective, in fact the
more jabs people had, the more vulnerable they became to infection. They neither stopped infection
nor stopped people spreading infection. Early treatment is also vital. So why were infected people
advised to stay at home until they had trouble breathing? It is quite clear that early intervention was
key in saving people's lives.

There was absolutely NO need for every single person to be injected with what essentially were trial
vaccines that did not even meet the specifications or previous definitions of vaccine. That definition
had to be changed so the new jabs would fit.

There was also absolutely no need for lockdowns for entirely healthy populations, which addresses
the broader health support term of reference. This was also never in the previous pandemic
response document. It is completely unnecessary to lock down an entire population over something
that very quickly proved to have a 99.7% recovery rate across all age groups.

The media played a huge part in spreading complete misinformation and disinformation about both
the virus and the supposed only way to control it, which was through getting vaccinated. Tried and
proven medications were not allowed to be used and doctors were threatened with deregistration
for even suggesting any alternatives to the jab. However, much of this (mis and dis) information
came from the government and so called state "health" ministers and chief "health" officers, the
vast majority of which were not medical doctors or had not seen patients for many years, sometimes
decades. How were these people ever put in charge of the health of the nation's people?

It was apparently early on that masks did not and still do not work for viruses. Even the higher level
masks are not effective against virus particles. So why was everyone required to wear masks,
especially with the completely useless blue surgical masks that have become a huge waste problem
and are a menace to wildlife. Cloth masks are also less than useless, because they don't filter
anything but do restrict people's breathing and ability to get fresh air, which is vital to help combat
viruses.

Why was natural immunity completely disregarded when it's been proven to be vastly superior to
any vaccines?

Since lockdowns were completely unnecessary, broader health or financial supports would also have
been completely unnecessary, since people did not have to close down businesses, be forced into
quarantine when returning from overseas or interstate nor did schools have to be shut down.

Activities that were allowed or not allowed made absolutely no sense at all. Confining people to
home and now allowing them to go outside and exercise, which would have made a huge
contribution to both physical and mental health also made little sense. Not allowing people to see
loved ones in hospital or allowing people to die without their loved ones being allowed to see them
also made absolutely no sense whatsoever.

Again, if these lockdowns were not implemented, most of the problems, such as labour shortages,
would not have occurred. Things like Jobkeeper would not have been required, as people could have
still been able to go to work unimpeded.

Sacking people who chose not to get vaccinated is also a complete disgrace, especially given what
we now know about the complete and utter ineffectiveness and downright dangers of the
vaccinations. That this is still an issue in some industries today, or even still a requirement is a bigger
disgrace.

Requiring people to share personal medical information with all and sundry is also a complete
disgrace. It should not be anybody's business but the person involved if they have had an injection or
not. This is not required for anything else. Why was it required for Covid? This was also a huge
contributor to people's mental health issues and this should not have happened.

Responses to any future potential pandemic should follow the previous pandemic procedures and
every country be allowed to make up their own minds and decisions on how this would be handled.
It is certainly not up to unelected foreign bureaucrats to decide how each country responds.

If the guidelines are followed correctly, then vulnerable people are sheltered or removed from high
risk positions and kept away from possible infection sources. Steps made to reduce their risks would
ensure they are kept safe.

Everyone else should be able to carry on like before and follow simple and sensible precautionary
steps, like they did in Sweden. Their results should prove beyond any doubt that the steps they took,
and the steps the strictest countries took made not one iota of difference. This was consistently
shown for many other countries and even on a state by state level.

It should NOT be necessary to lock everybody down. It should NOT be necessary to inject every
single person with something, especially if it is novel technology. Different measures should be tried,
and there is no "one size fits all". Alternative suggestions should not be shut down and practitioners
threatened with deregistration if they dare go against some supposed "official" line. Who decides
the official line and is it the correct course of action?
Most of all, if mistakes have been made, then they need to be admitted. It does nobody any good to
double down on the mistakes and deny that they were made. Either way, the truth has a habit of
getting out regardless and it always will in the end. I am sure there are more than sufficient studies
now that show quite clearly that the response here in Australia was not the way to go.

There are also so much overwhelming evidence that the vaccines rolled out for this disease are not
just completely ineffective, but downright harmful. No medication should ever be forced on
anybody, especially if they are unable to give informed consent.

That people lost jobs because of decisions to not taking an unproven, untried, new technology is a
complete disgrace. What's even more disgraceful is that a number of these people are still not
working. We have a skills shortage in a number of areas, such as medical staff, emergency services,
policing and firefighting, to name but a few. There are literally tens or maybe even hundreds of
thousand qualified people who cannot work in their chosen fields because of mandates. This also
needs to end. This is one of the contributors to a deterioration in mental health.

These are just a few things that I've raised. There are many things to consider in this but due to
space and time constraints, have been left off.

In closing, I would strongly suggest that should there ever be a global pandemic or health
emergency, the last four years are textbook examples of what NOT to do.

Thank you for your consideration.

Kathy Ran
