LeanMachine Submission to Australian Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
By: Brenton Jeffrey Wight, Health Researcher since 2010
                                         Phone                 Email |
More data at www.leanmachine.com.au/coronavirus-protection
There are over 2,400 articles with over 800 related to Coronavirus in my 14 years of research at
www.leanmachine.com.au
There is not enough room in the required 3 pages so these are just some of the basic points:
- The promoting of untested mRNA vaccines that are not safe nor effective but are killing and maimimg
thousands of Australians.
- The Australian Constitution gives Australians the right to free speech, ignored by the Australian
Government
- The censorship of truth by the media, the AMA (Australian Medical Association) and the Government
- The failure to report the vaccination status of all those infected, in Hospital or died
- Vaccination damage to^^^^J and many thousands of others
Vaccine Effectiveness: How can the People of Australia trust a corrupt Government who continue to
lie:
Lie #1: “95% effectiveness” was a RELATIVE effectiveness, where the ACTUAL effectiveness was less
than 1% and only initially, then negative effectiveness after a very short time.
Lie #2: “The vaccine stops COVID”. The vaccine INCREASES risk of getting COVID.
Lie #3: “The vaccine stays in the arm”. The vaccine goes everywhere in the body.
Li^4^^T^COVip virus originated in the Wuhan wet market”. The gain-of-function virus was
HBHBHHHHin the Wuhan Lab using funding from the^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^and —
and the^^^^^^^l with the full knowledge and direction of|
Lie #5: “Save Grandma from the virus by vaccinating your children”. Children have almost zero chance of
dying from the virus but real risks for myocardis and death from vaccination, and does NOT prevent
transmission of the virus to Grandma.
Lie #6: “The vaccines are safe because they are thoroughly tested”. They skipped many of the tests, and
the vaccine produced by           s not the same as that given Emergency approval, and not tested while
being given to millions of people.
Lie #7: “The vaccines are safe”. The vaccines have billions of particles of J
                | and many other UNKNOWN CONTAMINANTS in each and every dose.
Lie #8: “The vaccines cannot alter DNA”. The vaccines can indeed change DNA, in the recipient and in
future generations with unknown consequences.
Lie #9: “Wearing a mask stops infection and transmission”. Mask-wearing studies prove zero benefit, but
wearers risk ill-health due to insufficient oxygen, also by breathing fibres from the mask that contaminate
the lungs.
Lie #10: “The vaccine would only last in the body for a short period of time”. These products remain in our
body and remain biologically active for an undetermined period of time, of at least weeks and probably
many months.
Lie #11: “The vaccine is safe for pregnant women”.^^^^ own study and the real-world results show this
is another lie.
Lie #12: “The vaccine reduces risk of serious COVID and death”. The vaccine INCREASES risk of
serious COVID and death.
Lie #13: “For the best protection from COVID, get your vaccinations up to date”. This is completely wrong.
The more vaccinations, the more likely an early death.
Lie #14: “Myocardis is very rare”. Every person vaccinated has measurable impact on the heart, even if
they have no symptoms.
Lie #15: “The TGA reviews all vaccine products thoroughly before approving them”. The TGA simply
follows advice from the corrupt CDC and FDA, and refuses to admit the enormous numbers of deaths and
injuries from the vaccine.
There are so many more lies but running out of room here.

DANGERS of the COVID VACCINES
Newly Leaked Data Shows Just How Dangerous the COVID Vaccines Are. Why Does the Government
Hide Vaccine Injury Data and When Will This Stop? Read the proof here:
https://www.leanmachine.com.au/newly-leaked-data-shows-just4iow-dangejrous-the-covid-vaccjnes-are

Vaccine DOES Change DNA - We already knew that our DNA CAN BE CHANGED by the vaccination.
Now we know about the contamination :
DNA Fragment Risks
The FDA refuses to accept that billions of unknown DN(^an^othei^ragment^os^n^isHp humans.
Read the truth about how these fragments, including the                                ;an self­
assemble and incorporate into human DNA, a report by D               inventor of mRNA:
https://rwmalonemd.substack.eom/p/mod-mrna-vaccines-dna-fragment-risks

Fake News and Censorship
Australian Government proposes a Communications Legislation Amendment (Combatting Misinformation
and Disinformation) Bill - This is a Digital Censorship Bill
They call it disinformation but it is Censorship to stop the truth being told! This goes against all human rights
of free speech, as well as complete prevention of scientific discussion about anything.
This Bill mut be prevented at all cost, and is insane from a Government who claims that these practices in
China and other countries abolish Human Rights to Free Speech.
The so-called “Fact Checkers” are not doctors, they are paid by the drug companies to discredit and censor
everything except the vaccinations.
The Australian Government is GUILTY of DIS-INFORMATION (LIES) and should face the consequences.

Informed Consent
Australians were never given true information about the COVID-19 vaccines, which do not work and can kill
us, maim us for life, reduce immunity so more likely to get cancer, multiple sclerosis, stroke, clots, heart
attacks and death.
Vaccinations also cause shingles (Oh but we have another vaccine for that), or Pneumonia (Oh but we
have another vaccine for that).
Informed Consent is                    the Nuremburg Code, to which Australia’s signature means nothing.
Vaccine Injuries to
My ■                                  a qualified Personal Trainer, at                 and in perfect physical and
mental health, was mandated to receive 2 shots of Pfizer “vaccine” with the threat of losing her job.
The morning after the second shot, she woke feeling like a                                                     with
                                                  and                As a personal trainer, she knew this was
serious.
At the I              Hospital she had several tests, but one of the most important                  was NOT
performed. She claimed it must have been a vaccine injury, and was met with a common “It’s all in your
head” response from the so-called “Doctors”.
However, she was then referred to a                        specialist, who found she had                     and
confirmed that:
The                         , including the              , a problem normally only seen in seniors. The
         as damaged, rare for a young fit person who had a healthy diet and lifestyle. The damage was
caused by the COVID-19 vaccine.
The damage was more than likely permanent, and she was warned that the additional stress of any future
           Bmay prove dangerous, so the next scheduled review was brought forward.
           I has suffered financial loss including lost time from work, medical expenses of many |
          | but is unable to claim for this vaccine-induced damage because she did not meet the criteria of
spending one night in Hospital.
Her future as a                     is in doubt, her future fertility is under question
                                                                                                      , her longevity
will be shorter.
Her compensation? Zero. The Government MUST compensate victims or they will never be trusted again
and will face class-action law suits.
Excess All-Cause Deaths are higher than those reported by the ABS.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics is showing tens of thousands of excess deaths, in spite of “doctoring”
the results. Deaths in 2020 (no vaccines but the height of a “deadly pandemic”) were substantially lower
that the previous 5 years, so 2020 was excluded from the future COVID death comparisons. Deaths in 2022
were compared to a baseline period consisting of the average number of deaths occurring in the years of
2017-2019 and 2021.
Inclusion of 2021 where there was an unusually high number of excess deaths, blamed on COVID-19 but
undoubtedly caused by COVID-19 vaccinations, makes the 2023 deaths appear lower in comparison.
Even so, the Excess deaths continue to rise. The ABS can easily access the Australian Vaccination
Register to give the vaccination status of those who died, but if they do, it would show conclusively that the
more vaccines a person has, the more likely they will die. By not publishing the death causes from the
vaccination, Australians can no longer trust the Government due to lack of transparency.

Vaxxed vs Unvaxxed
 I am not vaccinated and have NEVER HAD COVID no doubt because my immune system is excellent,
even at my age of
When NSW were publishing the vaccination status in their weekly reports the proof was there: The more
vaccinations, the higher risk of death. The report suddenly left out this data.
The INQUIRY MUST PUBLISH the VAX STATUS of EVERY DEATH in AUSTRALIA.
This will prove to every Australian that the vaccines are killing people.
The ABS can do this. It is not difficult. Failure to show the truth means the Government is CORRUPT and
should be thrown out.

Contamination of the COVID-19 mRNA vaccines from billions (or hundreds of billions) of particles of
unknown DNA, other unknown particles^^^^^^^^^^^^H etc in each and every dose has unknown
causes of unknown problems for current and future generations.
Canada Health, Europe Health and many researchers and organisations have verified this.
Why does the TGA allow these toxins?
Why has the TGA ignored thousands of death reports and admit to only about 14 of these as caused by the
vaccinations? Doctors have given up reporting vaccine deaths because it is a waste of their time.

No more room here to comment on:
- Mandated masks that do nothing to prevent transmission
- The WHO; contributor to the pandemic and the lies.
- Fertility, stillbirths problems caused by the vaccinations leading to a sudden drop in live births.
- How the Variants are caused by the vaccinations

The Government MUST tell the truth NOW because Australians will find out anyway sooner or later, and will
blame past and future Governments for witholding the data.
Minor parties tell the truth but are silenced and ridiculed by the major parties.
Various members of the Major parties also know the truth but are silenced or risk being thrown out.
I do not support or recommend any particular party and do not blame any particular elected official.
However I trust that this INQUIRY will bring about major changes in political parties and in the future they
will not be led or bribed by the Drug Companies, the WHO, the WEF and other ^^organisations.

Please contact me and I will provide more proof of everything I say here and much more. 3 pages is
nowhere enough to supply all of the information required.

Summary: The VACCINE ROLLOUT must STOP IMMEDIATELY.

Yours,
Brenton Wight, Health Researcher for 14 years.
