Submission and Evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Panel members,

This is a personal submission by an 82-year old retired businessman with the experience to
tell when a person is 'shooting from the hip'. On many occasions during the COVID period, I
witnessed politicians and senior bureaucrats frequently changing direction on COVID issues
without any explanation other than they were following the science. There were no
occasions where details were provided and this led to many people doing their own
homework and there was a loss of confidence in our political system and in our health
bureaucracies.

Public confidence is an essential component for successful management of any future
pandemic and hopefully your Inquiry can help restore this to an acceptable level. This could
be achieved by obtaining and releasing the data that guided a change in direction by State
and Federal Health Ministers. The data should include the following:

       1. COVID deaths in context: The threat presented by COVID was presented as
           massive and this caused unnecessary fear in many and a need for more details in
          others. It should have been presented in context. For example, in July 2021 there
          was actually only one COVID death reported against the average deaths from all
          causes of about 400/day.


       2. Masks: The authorities stated at the outset, that masks are ineffective against
          COVID but this changed to police enforced mandates. There was no explanation
          for the change.
           Many mask manufacturers, including the quality N95 masks, state on the
           packaging that masks are ineffective and cautioned against their use. Two
          examples follow:
          a) "This product is not a respirator and will not provide any protection against
                 COVID-19 (Coronavirus) or other viruses or contaminants. Wearing an ear
                 loop mask does not reduce the risk of contracting any disease or infection"
          b) "Warnings.
                 •   The mask does not eliminate the risk of contracting any disease or
                     infection
                 •   Improper use may lead to illness or even death"


          Given the above warnings and that wearing of masks is very detrimental to the
          social welfare of almost all people and particularly to children, the Health
          authorities should have provided a convincing argument for the change,


          The Panel should determine whether the Health Officials proceeded with the
           mask mandate despite the manufacturer's statements or should obtain and
           release the data on which the decision was made to mandate masks even to
          children.
3. Vaccination Efficacy and deaths from all causes: All people have access to
   reports by VAERS, AUSVAXSAFETY, Australian Bureau of Statistics, TGA,
   Euromomo, etc. and had the time to satisfy their curiosity during periods of
   lockdowns and work restrictions. The reports from these sources all show that
   there has been an alarming increase in all-cause mortality rates in all countries
   that had high vaccination rates.


   The Health officials have yet to explain the rapid increase in deaths leaving many,
   including Australian Medical Professionals Society (AMPS), to conclude that the
   vaccines must be the cause of death.


   My concern from the outset was that thorough testing of the safety and efficacy
   of the new mRNA vaccines could not have been done within the very short
   period of their development. Certainly when vaccinations first commenced, the
   product information sheets then stated "No Data Available" against many
   potential problems as shown in the attached file showing product information
   taken from the TGA web site in June 2021.


   Since the government made the unbelievable decision to proceed with the mass
   vaccination program despite the TGA data, the Panel should obtain and release
   the data on which the decision for mass vaccination was made.


   In addition, if an explanation for the high death rate cannot be provided through
   this inquiry, broad based autopsies should be arranged for all unexpected deaths
   to determine the cause.


4. Treatment of children: At the outset, authorities stated that COVID risk to
   children was extremely low and they would not need the vaccination or to wear
   masks and that schooling would not be interrupted. However, these assurances
   were then reversed with no explanation despite:
       •   TGA and VAERS reports showing that there was a risk from the
           vaccination. The VAERS report currently shows adverse effects totaling
           between 1,600,000 and 16,000,000.
       •   Medicare acknowledged a risk through its web site statement "From 1
           January 2022, a new item (63399) is being listed on the Medicare Benefits
           Schedule (MBS) for cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assist in
           diagnosing myocarditis associated with mRNA COVID-19 vaccination".
       •   Deep public concern as demonstrated by a 94556 person response to a
           petition against the jab for children (EN3625)

   A goal of this Inquiry should be to determine the reason for the decision reversal
   and to determine whether there is a potential for long term harm including
   fertility problems.
       5. Lockdowns: It is important to provide sound reasons for the lockdowns given the
           huge damage to all aspects of human life that was imposed on the people.


           It is my understanding that lockdowns were not part of the Australian pandemic
           management policy prior to COVID but that this management plan was
           completely abandoned in 2020 between March 20 and March 27. If this is the
           case, the Panel should obtain and release the data on which the lockdown
           decision was based. I also request that the Panel obtain and release the cost to
           benefit studies for the lockdowns.


       6. Vilification of early Treatments: Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine were
           essentially banned in Australia with Doctors threatened with loss of license
           and/or a jail sentence even for simply recommending its use for COVID. This is
           despite that Ivermectin is listed by WHO as a very safe drug, it received a Nobel
           Prize, it has been used 4 billion times for human treatment since 1987 and it has
           been a major success in the treatment of COVID in India, Japan, Mexico and Peru.
           Hydroxychloroquine also has a proven safety record having been used for
           nearly 70-years and millions of doses are prescribed annually with over 5.4
           million prescriptions in the USA alone during 2019.

           On the basis of the oversees success, the Panel needs to determine the basis
           of this decision and to recommend that never again will Government permit
           bureaucracies to interfere between Doctors and their patients. It should also
           confirm the long standing arrangement that experimental and untested
           drugs, particularly of a genetic nature, should never be used.



Yours Faithfully



William R Ifield
