SUBMISSION FOR COVID ENQUIRY



I wish to make a submission to the covid enquiry. I'll begin by providing a brief background of my
circumstances.

On the 1 December 2021 I lost my job as a FIFO worker due to not taking the covid vaccine. I use the
term vaccine in a loose sense. My wife was also stood down from the                               due
to not having the covid vaccination and later resigned due to a flawed disciplinary procedure that
saw a reprimand installed on her previously flawless and impeccable work record.

This was despite the federal government repeatedly stating there would be no forced vaccination
program in Australia.

When the mask mandates were introduced into the schools for the children we decided to pull our
children out and home school them. For a child to have to wear a mask for the whole school day
didn't seem right to us, especially after previously being told children were a low risk group. This
coupled with the standard of education being rolled out at the time which I believe was a result of
staff shortages due to vaccine mandates we felt it would be better to home school them.

This obviously had a financial as well as psychological effect on us. It was during the pandemic and
border closures that my mother passed away suddenly, the rules in place at the time did not allow
me to leave the country, and I would have to apply for an exemption and then have to be out of the
country for 3 months if I remember correctly. That was wholly unacceptable to first have to get
permission to attend my mother's funeral and secondly to be away from my family for 3 months.
Given the madness going on at the time I couldn't take the risk leaving them in Australia.

The response to the pandemic by the government is extremely questionable, I have made a list of
points in regard to your terms of reference that I think need answers to, this list is by no means
exhaustible and I'm sure you will have many many more points raised by others.



    •   Despite the federal government never introducing a forced vaccination program, how did
        the state governments introduce one, where was the protection for the people?
    •   The national cabinet meetings were confidential yet it is stated that is where they took
        expert advice to be able to respond to the covid 19 situation. Why were they kept
        confidential? Who were the experts and what information did they give the cabinet, why is
        there no transparency.
        As we now know after the fact, the information we were given at the time from the
        governments, state and federal were not correct even though we were told they were
        following the most up to date health advice, (which has not been made available to the
        public).
        ATAGI 2023 booster advice now states that adolescents and young adults are more at risk
        from myocarditis after the vaccination than after covid 19.
    •   The Pfizer vaccine was never tested to see if stopped transmission of the covid 19 virus.
        Yet at the beginning we were told in order to protect others everyone should get a vaccine.
        Where did the government obtain this information did the pharmaceuticals mislead the
        government or did the government mislead the people?
         Never forget we were told 'in order to keep Granny safe you need to get vaccinated'
    •   The TGA hid the deaths of children after vaccination on their website so as not to undermine
        public confidence. This is censorship and denying people information that would enable
        them to make an informed choice.



I would urge the government to hold a Royal commission into the covid response so as to include
the actions taken by the state governments as there is clearly a discrepancy between what the
federal governments were saying and how the state governments acted.

The amount of fines that were issued and subsequently dropped due to being illegally issued was
phenomenal and put people through mental and financial stress for absolutely no reason. This was a
very dark time for Australia and a thorough investigation needs to be held.
