              COVID-19 Response Inquiry Submission
                      December 14, 2023
The harm done to Australia by the government’s COVID-19 policies -
both at State and Federal levels - warrants a full inquiry and compensation
to individuals affected.

                               POINTS
  Vaccine Mandates Causing Job Losses and Termination of Study
  Courses
  People who lost their jobs or were refused continuation of studies
  at educational institutions should receive an apology and financially
  recompensed by the government. The psychological trauma these
  individuals suffered deserves full acknowledgement. Vaccine
   mandates made the vaccine compulsory if a person wanted to keep
  their job or enrolled to study. Yet the government maintained that the
  vaccine was voluntary.

   Raiding Doctors' Offices and Taking Private Patient Records
  A doctor's surgery in Melbourne was raided by plain clothed police.
  Patient records and the doctor’s appointment book were taken. Filmed
  by an onlooker. The fear on the doctor's face was heartbreaking. Why?
  Because the doctor was suspected of prescribing Ivermectin.

   Refusal of Service to Unvaccinated Individuals
   These were my experiences as an unvaccinated individual:
  - rejection of service at food outlets and cafes without a vaccine
  certificate
  - a PCR or RAT required for a dentist or doctor but not required for a
  vaccinated person
  - refusal of entry to concerts without a vaccine certificate
  Related to this was avoidance by vaccinated friends who believed the
  government and media's unscientific line that the unvaccinated will give
   you COVID. As it turned out nearly every vaccinated person got
  COVID as did most unvaccinated of course

  Media 'Demonising' the Unvaccinated and Not Publishing Accurate
  Information (Including suppression of negative data on the vaccine)
  - media suppressed questioning of the vaccine by the public
  - mention of vaccine injuries was always omitted in reports
  - the media would not publish comments, or letters to the editor, which in
  any way queried or raised questions about the vaccine
  celebrities who cast doubt on the vaccine, like |        Hand |
           were labelled an 'anti-vaxxer nut case' by the media
  Australian Federal Government Indemnifies COVID-19 Vaccine
  Manufacturers Against Liability in the Event of Vaccine Injuries
  The Australian government is paying compensation to the vaccine-
  injured (as reported by the Sydney Morning Herald). That is
  Australian taxpayers’ money. Why is the government covering for this
  when the Pharmaceutical companies can well afford it? Why did the major
  parties, including the Greens, block disclosure of the terms of the
  agreement? The pharmaceutical companies were obviously already
  aware that the COVID-19 vaccine had side-effects. Freedom of
  Information documents in the USA show Pfizer recorded a significant
  number of serious injuries in its trials.

 Treatment of Novak Djokovic
 The Australian government must issue an apology to tennis player Novak
 Djokovic for its appalling treatment when he arrived. He had followed all
 the requirements for entry and the Australian government granted him
 entry. Yet upon arrival he was subjected to the most humiliating
 treatment. I have never been so ashamed of my government.

 Threats Made to the Unvaccinated by Health Authorities
  Health authorities, Premiers and the Prime Minister demonised the
  unvaccinated. They were our friends, family members and work
  colleagues but, with the mouthpiece of the media, the vaccinated were
  persuaded to turn on the unvaccinated. They were barred from family
  gatherings, Christmas celebrations and social occasions where they
  were once welcomed. The New Zealand Prime Minister, following Jacinta
 Ardern, said "the unvaccinated will be hunted down". I am now aware of
 just how far authorities will go no matter what harm may result for the
 citizens. Australia was no different in what it inflicted on its citizens.

 Extended Lockdowns in NSW for the Unvaccinated
 At the end of 2021 a 4 month lockdown was extended to 6 months for the
 unvaccinated. There was no scientific basis in connecting the unvaccinated
 to COVID. In fact Pfizer had already stated the vaccine did not stop
 transmission - said by a Pfizer executive and filmed - rendering mandates
 baseless but they still were implemented. The NSW government
 introduced a 5 kilometre travel limit during one lockdown thereby severely
 creating inconvenience and further stress to the population.

 Masks
 Masks are some sort of barrier to airborne germs and viruses but the
 reality is that a germ or virus is smaller than the gaps in the weave of the
 mask which allow the person to breathe. The fuss, and fines, over mask
 wearing were unnecessary. It can be voluntary of course. The media
 created such fear that people even wore them when driving alone in the
 car!

 Business Closures and Resulting Hardship, Stress and Depression
 Responsibility for the immeasurable financial devastation, loss of
 employment in the area of a person’s skills, destruction of life’s
 purpose and enjoyment, stress and depression sit squarely on the
 shoulders of the Australian and State governments. I know 3 nurses
 and 1 midwife whose employment was terminated over the mandate.
 Then the government says we have a crisis with shortages of nurses,
 police, teachers, etc.

 Suppression of Natural Healthcare Procedures & Medical Information
 to Improve Immunity by the Media and Australian Government
 Any mention of natural methods to boost immunity were banned. That
 included social media which wasted no time in labelling as unfactual
 anything that differed from the government's view. Medications that
 might be competition for the vaccine’s promotion as a 'one-stop-shop'
 were suppressed.
  Former Prime Minister Scott Morrison Taking Over 5 Ministries
  Why did the PM take control of 5 ministries during the pandemic?

  Physical Harm of Individuals by Police
 At a rally in Victoria police were filmed chasing a 70 year old
 woman and spraying her with a painful substance while she was
 lying on the ground. Also in Victoria at a rally, police fired rubber
 bullets at a man's back, causing visible skin damage. These
  occurances were actioned on citizens who were on the streets during a
  lockdown perhaps but there is no excusing what the police did.

                           CONCLUSION
The Australian Federal and State governments' response:
- was excessive and disproportionate to the threat COVID-19
posed
- destroyed businesses, careers, financial security, employment
opportunities
- caused and exacerbated physical and mental health problems
- isolated people
- deprived children of social interraction essential to their early life
development
- appeared to have a private arrangement with the vaccine
manufacturers to suppress data on clinical trials regarding vaccine
injuries
- appears to have pressured or threatened the media and social
media to censor negative information about the COVID-19 vaccine
 - appears to have instilled fear in, or threatened reprisals to,
 doctors who questioned the safety of the vaccine after observing
 adverse reactions to the vaccine
 - showed to the public the level of disregard the government has for
 its own citizens and the frightening lengths it will go to for citizen
 compliance with its policies however detrimental those policies are

                                      END
