                 The COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Submission by Wendy Corfield PhD
Context

This Inquiry will be a complete whitewash of the diabolical mess that Covid 19 created not only for the Australian
people, but for citizens around the world. How can a response to such an inquiry be limited to only three pages.
There are now thousands of books and articles on the abject failures of governments to deal with this centrally-
planned and globally-orchestrated event. This tells us everything we need to know about how serious this
government will be about meaningful outcomes from this Inquiry and why I will not even bother to address the
cliched terms of reference.

All levels of government played their part in bringing to Australia the most draconian, tyrannical measures this
country has ever experienced in peace time. For those paying attention, the open corruption permeated all
aspects of the Covid 19 “pandemic” debacle and is an affront to human decency and dignity. The undeniable fact
that millions of Australians were and still are being affected by this nightmare event is nothing short of criminal.
Even worse, if that is possible, is that this country lost its sovereignty as it fell into lockstep with other beaten
countries, bowing and grovelling to the pay masters instead of questioning the narrative from unelected
bureaucrats in Brussels.

Since the emergence of Covid 19, those in so-called leadership positions in Australia will leave a legacy that
their children and their children’s children for many generations will find mortifying. And we all know most in any
leadership type role exempted themselves from Covid 19 injections. This travesty had nothing to do with science
or keeping people safe, but everything to do with our so-called leaders slavishly adhering to some sickening
“great reset” agenda being funded by billion-dollar corporations and elite foundations.

SARS-CoV-2 was never a killer virus

It is becoming clearer that the Covid 19 “pandemic” was based on many false premises. The first is whether
Covid 19 even qualified as a pandemic. On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the
Covid 19 pandemic based on 4,291 deaths, by 118,000 cases in 114 countries, with an average of about 1,000
cases in each country.1 Based on this very small sample, the WHO assumed that what they renamed SARS-
CoV-2 is highly infectious with an infection fatality rate (IFR) of between 0.5 and 1.0 percent.2 While based on
many seasonal factors, the influenza IFR is widely agreed to be less than 0.1 percent.3 Previously the WHO had
defined an influenza pandemic as one for which the “human population has no immunity, resulting in several,
simultaneous epidemics worldwide with enormous numbers of deaths and illness.”4 Therefore, the WHO
declared a pandemic based on flawed modelling and projections (i.e., that cases would translate to deaths), not
on scientific fact. The IFR of SARS-CoV-2 is a hotly debated figure, but the median IFR is generally agreed to be
in the vicinity of 0.27 percent,5 hardly qualifying as a killer virus.

To illustrate the deliberate obfuscation of the figures; 900, 1,122 and 9,859 people “officially” died from Covid 19
in 2020, 2021 2022 respectively. In 2019, 13, 593 people died from respiratory diseases, including 953 who died
from influenza. In 2020, the ABS reports that there were only 962 people who died from respiratory diseases.
1,967 people died from pneumonia and influenza in 2021 and only 308 people died from influenza associated
deaths in 2022. Where have the deaths from influenza and pneumonia gone? Joining the dots yet?

Covid testing: an epic failure

The second false premise is that testing for the virus they called SARS-CoV-2 provided an accurate
representation of the number of cases. Although governments and health authorities tried to convince the people
that Covid 19 was a unique virus, it almost indistinguishable from any number respiratory conditions, such as
influenza. Enter the flawed Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) Test which from the
outset was established worldwide to generate “fake data” with a view to justifying excessive and socially
repressive policy mandates. False positives and elevated cycle thresholds provided vastly over-estimated case
numbers. This also implies that the number of deaths attributed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus is highly suspect, at




1 World Health Organization. WHO Director-General's opening remarks at the media briefing on COVID-19 -11 March 202C.
2 World Health Organization. Estimating mortality from COVID-19. 4 August 2020.
3 Stack Exchange. Peer-reviewed IFR estimates for (seasonal) influenza? 28 January 2021.
4 World Health Organization. Pandemic Preparedness, Communicable Disease Surveillance &
Response (CSR), 2 February 2003.
5 JPA loannidis. The infection fatality rate of COVID-19 inferred from seroprevalence data. Med RxIV. 14 July 2020.
 best. Data sets from this flawed testing method are so defective and so deliberately incongruous that the truth
 about accurate numbers of cases and deaths involving Covid 19 will probably never be known.

 Nevertheless, the failure of the PCR test was acknowledged by the Centre for Disease Control in the USA in
 mid-2021 when it issued a “Lab Alert” and recommended the test be withdrawn in favour of the “adoption of a
 multiplexed method that can facilitate detection and differentiation of SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses.” For
 the first time in medical history, people who were perfectly healthy with no symptoms, were declared Covid
 cases, based solely on unreliable positive PCR tests. A person could have miniscule amounts of dead viruses
 from a bout of influenza and be declared a Covid threat to public health 20 years later. The inability of the PCR
 test to distinguish between the detection of the SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses is a fundamental scientific
 uncertainty, which renders Covid 19 data scientifically flawed. The fact that the governments (at all levels) and
 health authorities peddled this nonsense is highly disturbing as it is difficult to know what is worse: decisions by
 medical and epidemiological “experts” based on pure ignorance, or something more sinister involving a vast
^M^^Magenda Nothing else makes any sense.

 The mother of all fear campaigns

 How were populations duped into going along with a deadly killer virus that would infect if you even went outside
 to look at the sunset or went for a swim at the beach? Anyone surviving the so called Covid 19 pandemic has
 lived through the most sophisticated psychological operation of all time. The agenda was to instil so much fear
 into populations that they would obey any order to “keep safe” not only for themselves but for the common good.
 This was achieved through what is being referred to as “mass formation psychosis,”6 all cleverly centrally
 designed and planned by specia^ehaviour^^its working out of “nudge” units at the Behavioural Insights Team
 set up by former Prime Ministei |^^^^^^^Hin the UK.7

 These tactics were then exported to other countries around the world, including to Australia. Such tactics were
 several decades in the making (for example,through tested methods including predictive
 programming in movies, television series, and computer games. This spawned brutal lockdowns for schools,
 churches, clubs, pubs, shopping centres, quarantine measures, social distancing, mask wearing, vaccination
 “passports,” hazmat suited body snatchers, 24/7 news alerts given by breathless reporters in front of blaring red
 screen crawlers showing case numbers and deaths from the killer virus. From “two weeks to flatten the curve” to
 seniors dying alone in aged care, falsely elevated eye-popping numbers of cases and deaths and every waking
 hour a crisis breaking news story. One of the clever ruses depictec^^^^jpeople falling down dead in the
 streets and being welded shut in their apartments with no food. Fear fear fear, always fear. From Boris Johnson
 the Prime Minister of England at the time:

       The coronavirus is the biggest threat this country has faced for decades - and this country is not alone. All over the world we
       are seeing the devastating impact of this invisible killer And so tonight I want to update you on the latest steps we are taking to
       fight the disease and what you can do to help...

       Without a huge national effort to halt the growth of this virus, there will come a moment when no health service in the world
       could possibly cope; because there won't be enough ventilators, enough intensive care beds, enough doctors and nurses.

       So it's vital to slow the spread of the disease.. .Because that is the way we reduce the number of people needing hospital
       treatment at any one time, so we can protect the NHS's ability to cope - and save more lives. And that's why we have been
       asking people to stay at home during this pandemic.8

 This typical statement was, of course, echoed almost word for word in other countries including by our own
 Prime Minister at the time, and the collective state premiers at their daily press conferences. Yet untold
 devastation has occurred from this fear campaign and no doubt will be written about for decades to come.

 Banning all other treatments in favour of vaccination

 The third false premise, of course in lockstep with other predominantly developed countries, is that there was no
 other available treatment for the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So, as the Covid 19 pandemic was being ramped up with
 the most sophisticated fear campaign the planet ever experienced, the WHO issued a statement advising
 against the use of ivermectin for the treatment of Covid 19 outside of clinical trials,9 and stated that there is



 6 Desmet M. The Psychology of Totalitarianism. 2022.
 7 Dodsworth L. A state of fear: How the UK government weaponised fear during the Covid 19 pandemic. 2021. Pinter and Marin.
 8 BBC News. Coronavirus: Boris ohnson's address to the natic it   II. 23 March 2020.
 9 World Health Organization. WHO advises that ivermectin only be used to treat COVID-19 within clinical trials. 31 March 2021.
currently insufficient evidence to recommend the use of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of COVID-19.10
There are thousands of peer reviewed studies from around the world that have evaluated the efficacy of both
ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine (among many others) in the early treatment of Covid 19.11 Yet, any studies
that refute the official narrative using real SCIENCE were, and still are, consistently ignored and labelled
misinformation and disinformation. Why are the health authorities dismissing these studies in the interests of
better treatment outcomes for Australians? This is anathema to every thinking person who has had the
misfortune to be injected

Covid “vaccines ■

Since no other treatment was deemed suitable to treat Covid 19, this enabled the government to act under the
powers given under the Biosecurity Act 2015 (Cth) (s. 475) allowing the Governor-General to declare a human
biosecurity emergency on the advice of the Health Minister. This declaration gave the Health Minister broad
powers to issue directions and requirements to prevent or control the entry, emergence, establishment or spread
of Covid 19 in Australia, or to implement WHO recommendations. The declaration also prevented Parliament
from overturning it. This is how the vaccination program was ushered in; designed to inject multiple experimental
shots into the arm of every Australian, even the unborn. It must be stressed here, that the Australian Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) only PROVISIONALLY approved the use of Covid vaccinations by four giant
pharmaceutical companies: Pfizer, Moderna, Astra Zeneca, and Novavax. The government has already
squandered $18 billion (and counting). The evidence proving that the Covid 19 jab is useless and unsafe is
overwhelming. Even governments now admit the jab won’t prevent transmission of the virus. Across the four
companies, a total of 258 million Covid vaccinations have either been purchased or on future consignment; that
is, 10 vaccines for every man, woman and child in Australia.12 Violations of the Nuremberg Code is surely a
consequence of this disgraceful overreach.

Excess deaths

The iatrogenic hypothesis of the so-called pandemic depends on objective evidence that there was no significant
excess mortality before government intervention with mass Covid 19 injections. The evidence is already
apparent that all-cause mortality in 2020 was well within normal expectations. Fast forward to the first half of
2022, where the Institute of Actuaries is reporting excess deaths increasing to almost 20,000 in 2022.13 Where is
the Australian Bureau of Statistics other than hiding the accelerating numbers of unexplained deaths in the
community. What has changed from 2020 to create such a surge in excess deaths? Why is the TGA only
attributing deaths as a result of Covid vaccinations at 14? This is the tip of the iceberg. Many scholars, medical
and epidemiological experts are questioning the burgeoning global excess death rates.14

In the past three years, there has been a deluge of research published on how the spike protein, either from the
assumed SARS-CoV-2 virus infection or generated from the mRNA injections, could lead to inflammation in
various organs causing death. The mRNA transcription process skips over the Methyl-1-Psuedouridine and
creates random proteins, a process that could create harmful prions, the agents of Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s
disease. Fragments of DNA have been discovered in the injection and these fragments include SV-40, a cancer­
causing agent. It was known in late 2020, two years ago, that the Covid 19 jabs would cause heart trouble,
strokes, neurological problems, myocarditis and pericarditis. It has been proved beyond question that the short­
term risks for those accepting the Covid jabs are horrific - worse than the risks associated with any traditional,
mass-market vaccine that’s ever been made. Any scientist, medical professional, statistician, epidemiologist or
media critic who dares to question the prevailing narrative of “safe and effective” is accused of spreading
disinformation, labelled a conspiracy theorist, and deplatformed, censored and in many cases debanked. Those
unfortunate enough to have been injected with the experimental mRNA shots will be extremely vulnerable to new
variations of whatever is going around as their immune systems are highly compromised. Coercing expectant

mm
mothei^^Tav^th^njections is diabolical |
                         When the truth is permitted to surface on the extent of excess deaths from Covid 19
injections, and it will, there will be nowhere for anyone who played any part this malevole ' ■
event to hide.



10 World Health Organization. Therapeutics and COVID-19: living guideline. 24 September 2021.
11 COVID-19 early treatment: real-time analysis of 3,582 studies. Accessed 15 December 2023.
12 Department of Health and Aging. Australia's vaccine agreements. Page updated June 2023.
13 Actuaries Institute. Excess deaths climb to nearly 20,000 for Australia in 2022. Press Release. June 2023.
14 Rancourt D, Baudin M & Mercier J. Probable causal association between Australia's new regime of high all-cause mortality and its COVID-19 vaccine rollout.
Research Gate. 2022.
