Government Covid 19 response Enquiry Submission

COVID-19lnquirv@pmc.gov.au




To: Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel December 15th 2023

Dear members of the panel,

I was a medical practitioner for 32 years until taking time off in December 2021 due
to Moral Injury caused by duress of an AHPRA investigation, which should have
been simply relegated to a vexatious complaint. AHPRA investigations have been
well established to result in suicides of health practitioners, in addition to their
broader disastrous effects on the health profession.

During my reflection time I recognised that it was impossible to maintain my
integrity and ethics and commitment to my patients while complying with AHPRA’s
diktat, and chose to de-register from AHPRA, as well as RACGP in recognition of
their obviously losing their way in their supposed role & commitment to patient care
in Australia.

There has been a wealth of real science, all of which I believe has been provided
already to the government regarding all the various measures of the covid enquiry,
such as the Altman report, a broad variety of information form both the Covid
Medical Network, Australian Medical Network and AMPS.
Many Doctors have contacted many politicians over the last few years with serious
concerns that have all been seen to have played out, along with all the worldwide
studies backing them up.

I anticipate these submissions will be ignored as have been all previous efforts.

Here are some worthwhile avenues of exploration for the enquiry

1. Why was the previous emergency pandemic plan ignored and many known
   pointless activities adopted ?
2. Why was the media whipping the population into fear for a basically flu virus
   with <1% mortality?
3. Why did the Morrison Government create a ( possibly unlawful) behind closed
   doors discussion group of state premiers and other people?
4. Why did the Australian government via its various agencies TGA, ATAGI etc
   not conduct proper investigation into the various side effects of the jabs?
5. Why did “the biggest experiment” not have proper ethical approval,
   experimental protocols to actively follow up participants and scientifically follow
   up deaths & side effects of those participants in the experiment?
6. Why were there no educational efforts to let the population know that Zinc,
    Vitamin D, healthy pursuits including exercise & weight loss not put in the daily
     premiers’ reports?
7. Why did the premiers’ daily bulletins keep people hypnotised in fear and
    compliance?
8. Why were highly populated nudge units set up especially in Dan Andrews
    Victoria to ensure messaging would create the deadly consequences we have
     now seen?
9. Why was the origin of Covid-19 said to come from a wet market when it was
          obviously the result of gain of function research?
10. Why were healthy people diagnosed as Covid cases and told they were
infectious on the basis of PCR testing, when Kary Mullis, (who invented the PCR
test for which he received a Nobel prize), maintained it could not be used to
diagnose disease.
11. Why were health practitioners not provided with proper PPE at the beginning
when It was unclear and it was thought that PPE would be helpful ?
12. Why were GP’s made to examine people in the car parks and via Telehealth
hten such practices are proven to miss serious illness and be ineffective?
13. Why were masks pushed when they had never been proven to be successful in
any previous epidemics, including the great plague in the 17th century.
14. Why did the TGA ban doctors from prescribing Hydroxychloroquine and
Ivermectin, when they were the most successful treatments for Covid-19. And
known to be successful both in trials and in widespread use in India, Japan, Egypt
and Peru.
15. The relative effectiveness of Pfizer mRNA vaccines was 95% but the absolute
effectiveness was between 1% and 2%. Why did our authorities allow this
deceptive marketing?
16. The mRNA gene-altering drugs were not traditional vaccines and were
introduced at ‘warped speed’. Why were all the real experts who warned of their
dangers de-platformed, censored and deregistered? Why no open debate?
17. By September 2021, it was clear the Covid vaccines were ineffective against
the delta strain of Covid. We now know these vaccines do not stop people getting
Covid or transmitting it to others. Nor does it stop anyone finishing up in ICU or
dying. So why are our medical and government authorities still encouraging people
to have these shots?
18. Why are the authorities recommending these drugs to pregnant women when
no drugs have been recommended since the thalidomide disaster in the 1960s?
Especially now when we know they are related to increased miscarriages and
neonatal deaths.
19. Why are the government and mainstream media ignoring those wounded by
the covid jabs? When Pfizer was forced to release the info they sent to the FDA
and CDC, there were 1291 different side-effects and 1243 deaths in the first three
months of the rollout. It was known to be toxic then in 2022. Why was it not
withdrawn?
20. Like every other highly vaccinated country, Australia is witnessing excess
deaths ever since vaccination started, especially affecting working age people, as
shown in Life Insurance statistics. Why when Ralph Babet asked for an inquiry into
these excess deaths, were our government more interested in covering it all up?
21. Why are doctors no longer allowed to put their patient’s needs first and follow
their Hippocratic Oath? The ban on assessing the pandemic is now spreading to
disallow any doctor to have a different opinion to directives from bureaucrats.
22. What is amiss with our state government institutions that a premier facing 4
charges of corruption was allowed to make Melbourne the most locked down city in
the world, destroy its small businesses, cause increased mental health problems,
accumulate massive state debt, and still have the highest numbers of Covid deaths
in the country?
23. Why do Doctors continue to be persecuted for asking questions? We have
many examples
24. Why do beaurocracies like ATAGI decide that they know better about patient
than the Doctor who has written the patient an exemption? And then go about
punishing Doctors for protecting their patients ?
25. Why are autopsies / postmortems not being done to discover the true medical
causes of the post jab deaths in Australia?
26. Why is Australia still insisting on jabs now that several more intelligent countries
and states with in the United States have ceased all jabs and launched various
legal enquiries into Government conduct, Pfizer, Moderna and their complicity in
global crimes against humanity

I am putting you on notice that the population of Australia and many Doctors &
Health Professionals demand a full investigation - a Royal Commission

I am writing this letter on behalf of a large number of doctors. At this time, they are
not ready to add their names to this petition for two reasons.
1. Some of them have already been suspended for putting their patients first, and
are looking to be able to work again. Others fear instant suspension should they
show any defiance against Ahpra.
2. Many doctors as well as the knowledgeable general public believe this enquiry
will be a whitewash.

When all the major parties are culpable for this crime against humanity, it’s pretty
clear why we are not having a Royal Commission.
And why Australians want one.
And why Albanese promised one in his election campaign.

My doctors want a Royal Commission too.

Thanks for accepting this submission,



Many thanks for your help
