My name                        I am a paramedic withand have worked
with this organisation for 24 years. I have worked at the referral department for the past 13
years where medicals calls are triaged to establish ongoing management. This submission is
my own behalf, I do not speak for

Consequences of fear mongering/the hidden victims.

Some anecdotes.




The accepted bigotry against the unvaccinated and the censuring of any criticism of the
roll-out or questioning of side-effects.

I triaged

                                                                                   didn't fancy
her chances of getting an exemption as there was such a pressure on doctors to push the
vaccine.
I heard colleagues complaining of people calling with side effects saying, 'Of course they are
going to get side effects.' Maybe so, but there was definitely a 'nothing to see here folks,'
attitude towards side effects, in stark contrast to an enthusiastic amplification of any
negative effects from Covid.
I would hear triages of the unvaccinated and note a critical and judgemental approach that
would not be tolerated with any other minority group. I do not blame my colleagues for this
as they were only repeating the mantras being churned out by the government and the
press. I felt that the government and media drove a campaign to sell the false narrative that
Covid was a virus of the unvaccinated.

All staff at in my organisation were mandated to take the vaccine. Those who refused were
quietly disappeared. Ironically all operational staff were expected to complete a learning
unit in which it was reinforced that patients must never be coerced into taking a medication.
The hypocrisy was almost comical. I was impressed by those that would not be coerced, and
disappointed at the complete lack of support they received. I was shocked at how quickly a
population could turn and decide that it was OK to remove one group that was now deemed
unacceptable.

Through hundreds of triages I came to appreciate that the lock downs were hardest for
those who were self-employed, those with young children, those living with mental illness
(or cohabiting with the mentally ill), those struggling with domestic discord or the socially
isolated. The consequences have been devastating, far-reaching, and yet to be fully
appreciated. If the goal of this inquiry is to explore how to do better next time, then I believe
there would be no better case study than Victoria which managed to achieve the tightest
restrictions and highest number of deaths whilst the vilifying a minority.
