                                                                 Canberra Declaration
                                                         COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION

1.0 Executive Summary
Representing our over 90,000 signatories, the Canberra Declaration is a grassroots network of Australians committed to the preservation of
faith, family, freedom and life.1 We have a vision to see our nation’s Judeo-Christian values revitalised for the good of all Australians. We
welcome the opportunity to present our submission to this Inquiry.
During the Covid era, in pursuit of the misguided goal of ‘Covid Zero’, the Australian Government engaged in breathtaking human rights
violations, unconscionable censorship of its citizens, a flagrant disregard for medical ethics, an appalling waste of taxpayer resources, and
‘expert’-informed policymaking that proved wrong time and time again. Our leaders oversaw a breakdown in the rule of law; confiscated
decision-making processes that belonged solely to this nation’s citizens; and consolidated and centralised executive powers never granted to
them by the people of Australia.
It is paramount that those responsible take full accountability for their mistakes, soberly reflect on how they erred so as to learn important
lessons for the future, and act to ensure the same failures and abuses are never repeated again.
We place on record our strong disapproval that this Inquiry excludes unilateral actions taken by State and Territory governments, and that
Australians were only given a submission period of one week mere days before the Christmas and New Year period. These manoeuvres
suggest the people conducting the Inquiry do not take it seriously. We are concerned that, in the face of overwhelming outcry, the purpose
of this Inquiry has already been decided—namely, to vindicate the bureaucracy for “trying”, to lay blame on people no longer in office, and
to affirm the Government’s response to Covid-19 as substantially correct and the “new normal” for future scenarios.
We offer our submission in hopes that those reviewing it will have ears to hear; that a whitewash as described need not be inevitable; and
that the voices of reasonable Australians will prevail. Below is a summary of where the Government erred in its response to Covid-19, how
it can make amends, and how it can better respond to future emergencies, with reference to the Inquiry’s relevant terms of reference.

Governance                                                                                                                                                     ...
Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as .National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to Covid-19.

2.1 ‘National Cabinet’
The formation of the ‘National Cabinet’, which combined the executive branches of Federal and State governments, was a flagrant
abrogation of the rule of law, a mockery of the Westminster system, and a betrayal of Australia’s Constitution. It was an arrangement that
gravely undermined the public’s trust and that will live in infamy in our nation’s history. Never should democratic governments consolidate
and centralise their powers in such a fashion, much less conceal their decision-making from the people who elected them. The cabinet’s
formation allowed for the many abuses that followed, including the sidelining of emergency laws already in place, and the State and
Territory-led injustices that remain immune from accountability to this day.
 Key Recommendations: Expand this Inquiry into a Royal Commission. Formally disband the ‘National Cabinet, and release all minutes and communications to
 the public immediately and unredacted. Require all States and Territories to hold their own Covid-19 Royal Commissions. Enact legislation that prohibits the
formation of another National Cabinet, or its equivalent.
2.2 Censorship
During the Covid era, departments and agencies of the Australian Government weaponised the medical regulatory system to achieve
certain desired political outcomes, and waged a scurrilous campaign of secrecy and censorship against the citizens of Australia.
The Department of Home Affairs, whose purview includes border security and counter-terrorism but not public health, wilfully violated
the free speech of thousands of Australians. An FOI request by Senator ^^^^^^■revealed that the DHA referred 4,213 Covid-related
social media posts to big tech platforms for removal. While some of these posts contained irrational or unverified statements, also blacklisted
were myriad legitimate claims made by Australian citizens. Among them were posts correctly stating that Covid-19 injections do not stop
infection or transmission of the virus, that masks and lockdowns were ineffective, and that SARS-CoV-2 leaked from the Wuhan Institute
of Virology. Content posted by Australian medical professionals was also censored, along with calls for peaceful protest, and most cynically
of all, testimonies of those injured by Covid-19 injections. Even memes that poked fun at politicians were suppressed.2
Separate to these events, AHPRA and the National Boards imposed gag orders on Australian medical practitioners, suppressing debate on
any evidence-based science that went against the state-imposed narrative on Covid-19—including alternative therapies, medical mandates
and Covid-19 injection harms. Echoing Soviet Russia or Communist China, Australian doctors still risk investigation and disciplinary action
for carrying out one of their most basic functions—namely, providing patients with individualised medical care such that the patient s
welfare supersedes any obligations placed on them by others. They can even face discipline for posting in private on social media.
The TGA has likewise been exposed, via an FOI request                             for allegedly censoring the truth about the injection-
induced deaths of numerous Australians, including two childrem^HJJ^lodged the request after seeing an unexpectedly high number
of patients coming through her clinic experiencing adverse eventsaiterin]ection.3
Key Recommendations: Identify and discipline executives behind DHAls censorship regime. Remove Martin Fletcher as CEO of AHPRA. Abolish AHPRAls
gag order on doctors and other medical practitioners. Require the TGA to publish unrefacted reports of all mRNA-induced events, including deaths. Withdraw the
Communications Legislation Amendment (Combatting Misinformation and Disinformation) Bill 2023. Enact legislation that protects Australians against censorship
by Federal departments and agencies.

Health Response Measures ...                                                                    .         .                          .     .               ....                  .
Key health response measures for example across Covid-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
health messaging).

3.1 Injection Deaths
A “definite causal link” between peaks in all-cause mortality and rapid vaccine rollouts has been identified in 17 southern hemisphere
countries by a team of Canadian researchers, including Australia. The study identified approximately 1 death for every 2,000 injections,
and implicated a broad range of products, including Govaxin, Sinovac, and Johnson & Johnson. “In 9 of the 17 countries, there is no
detectable excess mortality until the vaccines are rolled out,” according to the researchers, who also found “a new regime of higher
mortality” following the start of vaccine rollouts in all of the other 8 countries. “The Govid-19 vaccines did not save lives and appear to be
lethal toxic agents, they conclude.4
Their findings were consistent with readily-available Australian data.5 Most Queensland Govid-19 deaths were of people who were “fully
vaccinated” when the state borders first opened in December 2021.6 Excess deaths were detected in Australian states in 2021 when the
injection rollout was in full swing but many states still had no Covid-19 cases.7 Western Australians suffered unprecedentedly high rates of
adverse events following Covid-19 injections—with a staggering 57% ol^renyoresenting at a hospital—at a time when most of the
population was injectedbut no Covid-19 cases were recorded.8 Analyst ^^M|^^^Jconducted a Bradford Hill analysis of Australia’s
excess mortality data, concluding, “Strength of correlation, consistency, specificity, temporality, and dose-response relationship are foremost
Bradford Hill criteria which are satisfied by the data to suggest the iatrogenesis of the Australian pandemic, where excess deaths were
largely caused by Covid-19 injections.”9
As a small consolation, the Australian Government does offer a free funeral gift card with every Covid-19 injection via its Covid-19 Vaccine
Claims Scheme.10 Australians who have been maimed or rendered jobless by the injections can also apply for compensation. However, as of
May 2023, only 164 out of 3,160 claims had been approved, or less than 5%. Over 900 claims had been deemed not payable, while 2,030
other claims remain in progress.11
 Key Recommendations: Suspend Australia’s Covid-19 Vaccination Program immediately. Establish a Select Committee on Australia’s Excess Mortality. Issue a
formal apology to Australians maimed by EGA-approved Covid-19 products and to thefamilies of those killed. Fast-track the Covid-19 Vaccine Claims Scheme to
 ensure all entitled claimants are compensated without delay. Conduct a comprehensive review of the EGA’s regulatory approvals process.
3.2 Injection Mandates
Informed consent is a bedrock principle of modern medicine and a legal and ethical requirement for administering any vaccine. The
Australian Immunisation Handbook explicitly states that vaccines “must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or
manipulation”.12 These facts notwithstanding, Australian governments imposed heavy-handed injection mandates on their populations,
explicitly using tactics of pressure, coercion and manipulation by depriving Australians of their freedom to work, travel, use public and
private amenities, and be with loved ones at important moments such as births, deaths and funerals, unless they submitted to a novel
medical treatment.
The Australian public was not made aware they were being cajoled to inject a product that had undergone no long-term testing, nor were
they sufficiently informed of the risks involved.13 When the injection rollout began, no claim could be made with confidence about the
product’s long-term safety.14 As such, a moral and scientific argument for its use could only be made for those at high risk of severe illness or
death from Covid-19. Yet mandates were imposed on young and old alike, including those with no comorbidities and a vanishingly small
risk of severe illness or death.15 Australia’s Covid-19 vaccination Program put at risk young and healthy lives in an attempt to save old and
unhealthy ones. Throughout the program, policymakers and spokespeople did not so much as acknowledge they were putting Australians at
risk, nor disclose how they had weighed such risks in drafting their policies. Instead, government bureaucrats gave hand-waving appeals to
‘experts’, were dishonestly unequivocal, and never hinted at any risk associated with being injected.
In enacting these mandates, governments assumed total power over the bodies of millions of Australian citizens, violated Article 6 of the
Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights,18 arguably breached the Nuremberg code, and parted with a century of sound
medical ethics. No Australian government, State orTederal, should ever be allowed to mandate medicaf procedures, regardless of the
particulars of the situation—even if the product is assumed safe, effective and necessary. Either informed consent exists or it does not. In
the Covid era, it did not.
The Australian Government cannot pass blame to the States and Territories for injection mandates. The Commonwealth consented to the
mandates, first by its silence, and then by its refusal to pass the Covid-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and
the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting Covid-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023.17
Key Recommendations: Pass the Covid-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting Covid-19
Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023. Issue aformal apology to all Australians discriminated againstfor refusing a Covid-19 injection. Re-ratfy Australia’s
commitment to the Universal Declaration on Bioethics ana Human Rights.
3.3 Alternative Treatments
Inexpensive, safe and effective alternative treatments, most notably Ivermectin18 and Hydroxychloroquine,19 when used early and in their
respective triple therapies, have long been known to reduce Covid-19 hospitalisations and deaths. Unfortunately these drugs were
dismissed, derided and ultimately banned by Australian Federal authorities during the Covid era.
Ivermectin, which has been distributed to the tune of 3.7 billion doses globally since 1987, and whose discoverers won a Nobel Prize for
their efforts, was subjected to an off-label ban by the TGA in September 2021, which prevented doctors from prescribing it to treat
Covid-19.20 Hydroxychloroquine, which also has a robust safety profile, came under a similar ban in March 2020. Five million doses of
Hydroxychloroquine that were imported by Clive Palmer to donate to the public for the treatment of Covid-19 were seized by Australian
authorities and destroyed.21
The banning of Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine violated the rights of Australians to access medical care and infringed the sanctity of
the doctor-patient relationship. Given their safety profile, these therapies should never have been banned, even if their efficacy was
contentious. Based on the available data, however, it appears certain the bans on these therapies contributed to the deaths of many
Australians who would otherwise have survived if they had access to them.
Obesity and low Vitamin D have long been known as significant risk factors for poor Covid-19 outcomes, yet the Government barely
acknowledged this fact and failed to campaign for weight loss and improved Vitamin D levels in its response to Covid-19.22
Key Recommendations: Hold an inquiry into the EGA’s banning of alternative Covid-19 treatments. Close all investigations into doctors who prescribed
Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquinefor Covid-19. Issue aformal apology to doctors who were preventedfrom prescribing these alternative therapies and to those who
lost their registrationfor doing so. Reinstate the registration of all medical professionals who lost their registration for prescribing these alternative treatments to their
patients. Offer a coherent explanationfor why campaigningfor weight loss and adequate Vitamin D levels were never part of the Government’s Covid-19 response.

Broader Health Supports                                                                                    ...                                         .                   .
Broader health supportsfor people impacted by Covid-19 and/or lockdowns for example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to screening and otherpreventive
health measures).

4.1 Lockdown Harms
Australia’s pandemic emergency response plans, CDPLAN (2016) and AHMPPI (2019) contain no mention of large-scale lockdowns.23
Despite this, beginning in March 2020, Australian governments embarked on a course of unscientific, cruel and demoralising lockdowns
which they refused to abandon for the better part of two years.
Australia’s lockdowns resulted in astonishing educational losses for schoolchildren, whether seen in their cognitive development, nutrition
and physical health, or social and emotional wellbeing. They caused an epidemic of isolation and loneliness that directly narmed the mental
health of hundreds of thousands of Australians, and pushed many into joblessness, alcohol and drug abuse, domestic violence, and
suicide.24 Lockdowns are responsible for the destruction of countless small businesses, a spike in obesity rates, a drop in life expectancy, and
a level of social divisiveness not seen in Australia for decades.25 The economic cost of lockdowns was not only devastating and immediate,
but persists today in the form of rampant inflation and a cost-of-living crisis.
An independent review published in October 2022 found Australia’s response to Covid-19 to be excessive, particularly in regard to school
closures, lockdowns and border closures.26 A cost-benefit analysis by the Institute of Public Affairs found that 37 times more life-years were
lost than were saved as a result of lockdowns, and that thus far, Australia’s Covid-19 response has cost almost $1 trillion.27 Another cost­
benefit analysis, by UNSW economist                found that the costs of Australia’s lockdowns have been at least 68 times greater than any
benefits they delivered.28
It is not enough for the Federal Government to offer remedies to those harmed by human rights abuses without addressing the abuses
themselves. Trie Government erred severely by remaining silent in the face of the inhumanity of State and Territory governments and the
resultant economic and social devastation, and by demonising MPs who criticised these policies.29 The Commonwealth had many tools at
its disposal to force an end to these human rights abuses and chose not to.
Key Recommendations: Release the Cost-Benefit Analysis relied on for Australia’s pandemic response, if one existed. Issue aformal apology to Australians
adverseh affected hy lockdowns, including and especially those who lost loved ones to resultant violence, substance abuse and suicide. Enact legislation that outlaws
Federaland State governments imposing lockdowns on Australians again. Ensure allfuture emergencies are responded to in accordance with CDPLAN and


International Policies
International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply deals with international partnersfor
domestic use in Australia).

5.1 Border Closures
The Australian Government refused to allow its citizens to leave the country for two years, and also refused its citizens passage back into the
country for many months on end. In both of these actions, the Commonwealth stood in flagrant violation of Article la of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.30 In pandemic emergencies, a travel embargo for a period of several days or even weeks is defensible, but
not months, certainly not years, and absolutely not for a virus with a survival rate approaching 100% for the vast majority of people.31
Australian citizenship means nothing if citizens are barred from their own country or held prisoner by their own government. The Federal
Government likewise did nothing to prevent the States and Territories breaching Section 92 of Australia’s Constitution when they imposed
months-long internal border closures.
Key Recommendations: Re-ratify Australia’s commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Issue aformal apology to all Australians left stranded
overseas, those trapped in the country against their will, and those prohibitedfrom travelling interstate. Formally recommit to Section 92 of Australia’s Constitution.
5.2 Injection Supply Deals
When signing contracts with Covid-19 injection suppliers, the Australian Government granted the companies total legal immunity if their
products resulted in the maiming or killing of Australian citizens.32 This was an ethically indefensible decision that rightly eroded public
confidence in the products, and that should have been unnecessary in any case, since the Government communicated to the public absolute
certainty about the safety of the products. In combination with injection mandates, the legal immunity granted to injection suppliers
represents a double betrayal of the Australian public by its Government, especially those maimed and killed.
The Federal Government has likewise never explained to the Australian people why it signed contracts to purchase almost ten doses of
injection per citizen—far more than required under the Government’s or the suppliers’ own logic. To date, the Federal Government has
spent at least $ 18 billion on Govid injections and other treatments, approximately half of which have been binned.33 Of the first 255
million vaccine doses purchased, only 60 million were used, with more than half set to expire and be dumped, to the estimated value of
approximately 553 billion. Australians deserve to know why so much of their treasure—approximately $ 1,200 from the pocket of every tax­
paying Australian—was transferred to powerful pharmaceutical corporations, when the majority of those products were not needed and
were therefore destined for disposal from the outset.
Key Recommendations: Release all injection supplier contracts to the Australian public immediately. Offer a coherent explanationfor why suppliers were granted
legal immunity and why. excessive quantities of the products were purchased. Issue aformal apology to Australian taxpayersfor the profligate waste of public money.
Efnact legislation requiring the Government to hold pharmaceutical companies liablefor productfailure.

Population-Specific Mechanisms ....                                                                                                                       ...
Mechanisms to better targetfuture responses to the needs of particular populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with
disability, First .Nations peoples and communities and peoplefrom culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

6.1 Virus Risk Profile
In March 2020, with precious little data, the WHO made the alarming claim that 3.4% of people who contracted Govid-19 had died.34
The following month, it became clear the WHO’s estimate was vastly overstated, and that age and comorbidities were significant risk
factors for severe disease and death from Govid-19. An analysis of over 60 studies released in January 2021 showed that across 51 locations,
the median Govid-19 Infection Fatality Rate was in fact 0.27%.35 Age-stratified studies continued to affirm that the vast majority of the
world’s population was almost certain to survive Govid-19. In October 2022, an analysis was published that covered 38 countries, revealing
an IFR of just 0.095% for people aged 0-69, before injection treatments.36 In other words, 94% of the global population or nearly 7.3
billion people had a 99.965% chance of surviving Govid-19, even before any health interventions.
In spite of all this data, the Australian Government continued to act as though the WHO’s earliest inaccurate estimate held true, and
absolutely refused to take age differentials into account when enacting its policies. Instead of focussing protection on the approximately
 12% of Australians at higher risk of severe disease or death from Govid-19, the Government insisted on a years-long campaign of
lockdowns, border closures and injection mandates that inflicted immeasurable harm on the 88% who were almost certain to survive the
virus either way.37
Without explanation, the Government went to extreme measures to prevent Govid-19 deaths—even to the point of throwing human rights
to the wina and squandering untold public resources—while effectively ignoring deaths by all other causes, including deaths caused by their
own interventions. Australians deserve to know why their leaders engaged in such abject disproportionality, judging the deaths of certain
Australians more vital to avoid than others.
Key Recommendations: Issue aformal apology to Australians who lost loved ones to the Government’s Covid-19 interventions. Enact legislation requiring
Government to make the risk profile of an emergency threat a centralfeature of their response.
                     Canberra Declaration




                     15th December 2023




           SUBMISSION:
     Covid-19 Response Inquiry



               Co-Founder and Co-Drafter, Canberra Declaration
                     Co-Founder, Canberra Declaration
Kurt Mahlburg, Research & Features Editor, Canberra Declaration
                     Managing Editor, The Daily Declaration
                       Editor, The Daily Declaration

               www.canberradeclaration.org.au




                         CANBERRA
                        DECLARATION
                                                      Canberra Declaration
                                               COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY SUBMISSION
1.0 Executive Summary
Representing our over 90,000 signatories, the Canberra Declaration is a grassroots network of Australians committed to the preservation of
faith, family, freedom and life.1 We have a vision to see our nation’s Judeo-Christian values revitalised for the good of all Australians. We
welcome the opportunity to present our submission to this Inquiry.
During the Covid era, in pursuit of the misguided goal of ‘Covid Zero’, the Australian Government engaged in breathtaking human rights
violations, unconscionable censorship of its citizens, a flagrant disregard for medical ethics, an appalling waste of taxpayer resources, and
‘expert’-informed policymaking that proved wrong time and time again. Our leaders oversaw a breakdown in the rule of law; confiscated
decision-making processes that belonged solely to this nation’s citizens; and consolidated and centralised executive powers never granted
to them by the people of Australia.
It is paramount that those responsible take full accountability for their mistakes, soberly reflect on how they erred so as to learn important
lessons for the future, and act to ensure the same failures and abuses are never repeated again.
We place on record our strong disapproval that this Inquiry excludes unilateral actions taken by State and Territory governments, and that
Australians were only given a submission period of one week mere days before the Christmas and New Year period. These manoeuvres
suggest the people conducting the Inquiry do not take it seriously. We are concerned that, in the face of overwhelming outcry, the purpose
of trus Inquiry has already been decided—namely, to vindicate the bureaucracy for “trying”, to lay blame on people no longer in office, and
to affirm the Government’s response to Covid-19 as substantially correct and the “new normal” for future scenarios.
We offer our submission in hopes that those reviewing it will have ears to hear; that a whitewash as described need not be inevitable; and
that the voices of reasonable Australians will prevail. Below is a summary of where the Government erred in its response to Covid-19, how
it can make amends, and how it can better respond to future emergencies, with reference to the Inquiry’s relevant terms of reference.

Governance
Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities ofstate and territory governments, national governance mechanisms
(such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies
supporting responses to Covid-19.

2.1 ‘National Cabinet’
The formation of the ‘National Cabinet’, which combined the executive branches of Federal and State governments, was a flagrant
abrogation of the rule of law, a mockery of the Westminster system, and a betrayal of Australia’s Constitution. It was an arrangement that
gravely undermined the public’s trust and that will live in infamy in our nation’s history. Never should democratic governments
consolidate and centralise their powers in such a fashion, much less conceal their decision-making from the people who elected them. The
cabinet’s formation allowed for the many abuses that followed, including the sidelining of emergency laws already in place, and the State
and Territory-led injustices that remain immune from accountability to this day.
Key Recommendations: Expand this Inquiry into a Royal Commission. Formally disband the ‘National Cabinet ’ and release all minutes
and communications to the public immediately and unredacted. Require all States and Territories to hold their own Covid-19 Royal
Commissions. Enact legislation that prohibits the formation of another National Cabinet’ or its equivalent.
2.2 Censorship
During the Covid era, departments and agencies of the Australian Government weaponised the medical regulatory system to achieve
certain desired political outcomes, and waged a scurrilous campaign of secrecy and censorship against the citizens of Australia.
The Department of Home Affairs, whose purview includes border secunt^nd counter-terrorism but not public health, wilfully violated the
free speech of thousands of Australians. An FOI request by Senator^^^^^^lrevealed that the DHA referred 4,213 Covid-related social
media posts to big tech platforms for removal. While some of these posts contained irrational or unverified statements, also blacklisted
were myriad legitimate claims made by Australian citizens. Among them were posts correctly stating that Covid-19 injections do not stop
infection or transmission of the virus, that masks and lockdowns were ineffective, and that SARS-CoV-2 leaked from the Wuhan Institute
of Virology. Content posted by Australian medical professionals was also censored, along with calls for peaceful protest, and most
cynically of all, testimonies of those injured by Covid-19 injections. Even memes that poked fun at politicians were suppressed.11
Separate to these events, AHPRA and the National Boards imposed gag orders on Australian medical practitioners, suppressing debate on
any evidence-based science that went against the state-imposed narrative on Covid-19—including alternative therapies, medical mandates
and Covid-19 injection harms. Echoing Soviet Russia or Communist China, Australian doctors still risk investigation and disciplinary
action for carrying out one of their most basic functions—namely, providing patients with individualised medical care such that the
patient’s welfare supersedes any obligations placed on them by others. They can even face discipline for posting in private on social media.
The TGA has likewise been exposed, via an FOI request                         for allegedly censoring the truth about the injection-
induced deaths of numerous Australians, including two chiIdrem^H^J^^Hodged the request after seeing an unexpectedly nigh number
of patients coming through her clinic experiencing adverse evenf^ne^tyecuon.111

Key Recommendations: Identify and discipline executives behind DHA’s censorship regime. Remove Martin Fletcher as CEO ofAHPRA.
Abolish AHPRA’s gag order on doctors and other medical practitioners. Require the TGA to publish unredacted reports of all mRNA-
induced events, including deaths. Withdraw the Communications Legislation Amendment (Combatting Misinformation and
Disinformation) Bill 2023. Enact legislation that protects Australians against censorship by Federal departments and agencies.

Health Response Measures
Key health response measures for example across Covid-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

3.1 Injection Deaths
A “definite causal link” between peaks in all-cause mortality and rapid vaccine rollouts has been identified in 17 southern hemisphere
countries by a team of Canadian researchers, including Australia. The study identified approximately 1 death for every 2,000 injections,
and implicated a broad range of products, including Covaxin, Sinovac, and Johnson & Johnson. “In 9 of the 17 countries, there is no
detectable excess mortality until the vaccines are rolled out,” according to the researchers, who also found “a new regime of higher
mortality” following the start of vaccine rollouts in all of the other 8 countries. “The Covid-19 vaccines did not save lives and appear to be
lethal toxic agents,” they conclude.lv
Their findings were consistent with readily-available Australian data? Most Queensland Co vid-19 deaths were of people who were “fully
vaccinated” when the state borders first opened in December 2O21.vl Excess deaths were detected in Australian states in 2021 when the
injection rollout was in full swing but many states still had no Covid-19 cases?11 Western Australians suffered unprecedentedly high rates
of adverse events following Covid-19 injections—with a staggering 57% of them presenting at a hospital—at a time when most of the
population was injected but no Covid-19 cases were recorded?111 Analyst                   conducted a Bradford Hill analysis of Australia’s
excess mortality data, concluding, “Strength of correlation, consistency, specificity, temporality, and dose-response relationship are
foremost Bradford Hill criteria which are satisfied by the data to suggest the iatrogenesis of the Australian pandemic, where excess deaths
were largely caused by Co vid-19 injections.”™
As a small consolation, the Australian Government does offer a free funeral gift card with every Covid-19 injection via its Covid-19
Vaccine Claims Scheme? Australians who have been maimed or rendered jobless by the injections can also apply for compensation.
However, as of May 2023, only 164 out of 3,160 claims had been approved, or less than 5%. Over 900 claims had been deemed not
payable, while 2,030 other claims remain in progress?1

Key Recommendations: Suspend Australia’s Covid-19 Vaccination Program immediately. Establish a Select Committee on Australia s
Excess Mortality. Issue a formal apology to Australians maimed by TGA-approved Covid-19 products and to the families of those killed.
Fast-track the Covid-19 Vaccine Claims Scheme to ensure all entitled claimants are compensated without delay. Conduct a comprehensive
review of the TGA’s regulatory approvals process.
3.2 Injection Mandates
Informed consent is a bedrock principle of modem medicine and a legal and ethical requirement for administering any vaccine. The
Australian Immunisation Handbook explicitly states that vaccines “must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or
manipulation”?11 These facts notwithstanding, Australian governments imposed heavy-handed injection mandates on their populations,
explicitly using tactics of pressure, coercion and manipulation by depriving Australians of their freedom to work, travel, use public and
private amenities, and be with loved ones at important moments such as births, deaths and funerals, unless they submitted to a novel
medical treatment.
The Australian public was not made aware they were being cajoled to inject a product that had undergone no long-term testing, nor were
they sufficiently informed of the risks involved?111 When the injection rollout began, no claim could be made with confidence about the
product’s long-term safety.Xlv As such, a moral and scientific argument for its use could only be made for those at high risk of severe illness
or death from Covid-19. Yet mandates were imposed on young and old alike, including those with no comorbidities and a vanishingly
small risk of severe illness or death.xv Australia’s Co vid-19 Vaccination Program put at risk young and healthy lives in an attempt to save
old and unhealthy ones. Throughout the program, policymakers and spokespeople did not so much as acknowledge they were putting
Australians at risk, nor disclose how they had weighed such risks in drafting their policies. Instead, government bureaucrats gave hand­
waving appeals to ‘experts’, were dishonestly unequivocal, and never hinted at any risk associated with being injected.
In enacting these mandates, governments assumed total power over the bodies of millions of Australian citizens, violated Article 6 of the
Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights,™ arguably breached the Nuremberg code, and parted with a century of sound
medical ethics. No Australian government, State or Federal, should ever be allowed to mandate medical procedures, regardless of the
particulars of the situation—even if the product is assumed safe, effective and necessary. Either informed consent exists or it does not. In
the Covid era, it did not.
The Australian Government cannot pass blame to the States and Territories for injection mandates. The Commonwealth consented to the
mandates, first by its silence, and then by its refusal to pass the Covid-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and
the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting Covid-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023?™
Key Recommendations: Pass the Covid-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention ofDiscrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment
(Prohibiting Covid-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023. Issue a formal apology to all Australians discriminated against for refusing a
Covid-19 injection. Re-ratify Australia’s commitment to the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights.

3.3 Alternative Treatments
Inexpensive, safe and effective alternative treatments, most notably Ivermectin™11 and Hydroxychloroquine,™ when used early and in their
respective triple therapies, have long been known to reduce Covid-19 hospitalisations and deaths. Unfortunately, these drugs were
dismissed, derided and ultimately banned by Australian Federal authorities during the Covid era.
Ivermectin, which has been distributed to the tune of 3.7 billion doses globally since 1987, and whose discoverers won a Nobel Prize for
their efforts, was subjected to an off-label ban by the TGA in September 2021, which prevented doctors from prescribing it to treat Covid-
19 Y Hydroxychloroquine, which also has a robust safety profile, came under a similar ban in March 2020. Five million doses of
Hydroxychloroquine that were imported by Clive Palmer to donate to the public for the treatment of Covid-19 were seized by Australian
authorities and destroyed.™
The banning of Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine violated the rights of Australians to access medical care and infringed the sanctity of
the doctor-patient relationship. Given their safety profile, these therapies should never have been banned, even if their efficacy was
contentious. Based on the available data, however, it appears certain the bans on these therapies contributed to the deaths of many
Australians who would otherwise have survived if they had access to them.
Obesity and low Vitamin D have long been known as significant risk factors for poor Covid-19 outcomes, yet the Government barely
acknowledged this fact and failed to campaign for weight loss and improved Vitamin D levels in its response to Covid-19.xxu
Key Recommendations: Hold an inquiry into the TGA’s banning of alternative Covid-19 treatments. Close all investigations into doctors
who prescribed Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19. Issue a formal apology to doctors who were preventedfrom prescribing
these alternative therapies and to those who lost their registration for doing so. Reinstate the registration of all medical professionals who
lost their registration for prescribing these alternative treatments to their patients. Offer a coherent explanation for why campaigning for
weight loss and adequate Vitamin D levels were never part of the Government’s Covid-19 response.

Broader Health Supports
Broader health supports for people impacted by Covid-19 and/or lockdowns for example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to
screening and other preventive health measures).

4.1 Lockdown Harms
Australia’s pandemic emergency response plans, CDPLAN (2016) and AHMPPI (2019) contain no mention of large-scale lockdowns.xxul
Despite this, beginning in March 2020, Australian governments embarked on a course of unscientific, cruel and demoralising lockdowns
which they refused to abandon for the better part of two years.
Australia’s lockdowns resulted in astonishing educational losses for schoolchildren, whether seen in their cognitive development, nutrition
and physical health, or social and emotional wellbeing. They caused an epidemic of isolation and loneliness that directly harmed the mental
health of hundreds of thousands of Australians, and pushed many into joblessness, alcohol and drug abuse, domestic violence, and
suicide.XX1V Lockdowns are responsible for the destruction of countless small businesses, a spike in obesity rates, a drop in life expectancy,
and a level of social divisiveness not seen in Australia for decades.xxv The economic cost of lockdowns was not only devastating and
immediate, but persists today in the form of rampant inflation and a cost-of-living crisis.

An independent review published in October 2022 found Australia’s response to Covid-19 to be excessive, particularly in regard to school
closures, lockdowns and border closures?™ A cost-benefit analysis by the Institute of Public Affairs found that 37 times more life-years
were lost than were saved as a result of lockdowns, and that thus far, Australia’s Covid-19 response has cost almost $1 tri11ion.xxvu Another
cost-benefit analysis, by UNSW economist^^^^^^^ found that the costs of Australia’s lockdowns have been at least 68 times greater
than any benefits they delivered.’™™1
It is not enough for the Federal Government to offer remedies to those harmed by human rights abuses without addressing the abuses
themselves. The Government erred severely by remaining silent in the face of the inhumanity of State and Territory governments and the
resultant economic and social devastation, and by demonising MPs who criticised these policies.XX1X The Commonwealth had many tools at
its disposal to force an end to these human rights abuses and chose not to.
 Key Recommendations: Release the Cost-Benefit Analysis relied on for Australia’s pandemic response, if one existed. Issue a formal
 apology to Australians adversely affected by lockdowns, including and especially those who lost loved ones to resultant violence, substance
 abuse and suicide. Enact legislation that outlaws Federal and State governments imposing lockdowns on Australians again. Ensure all
future emergencies are responded to in accordance with CDPLAN and AHMPPI.

International Policies
International policies to support Australians at home and abroad (including with regard to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply
deals with international partners for domestic use in Australia).

5.1 Border Closures
The Australian Government refused to allow its citizens to leave the country for two years, and also refused its citizens passage back into
the country for many months on end. In both of these actions, the Commonwealth stood in flagrant violation of Article 13 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.™ In pandemic emergencies, a travel embargo for a period of several days or even weeks is defensible, but
not months, certainly not years, and absolutely not for a virus with a survival rate approaching 100% for the vast majority of people.™1
Australian citizenship means nothing if citizens are barred from their own country or held prisoner by their own government. The Federal
Government likewise did nothing to prevent the States and Territories breaching Section 92 of Australia’s Constitution when they imposed
months-long internal border closures.

Key Recommendations: Re-ratify Australia s commitment to the Universal Declaration ofHuman Rights. Issue a formal apology to all
Australians left stranded overseas, those trapped in the country against their will, and those prohibited from travelling interstate. Formally
recommit to Section 92 ofAustralia’s Constitution.
5.2 Injection Supply Deals
When signing contracts with Covid-19 injection suppliers, the Australian Government granted the companies total legal immunity if their
products resulted in the maiming or killing of Australian citizens.™11 This was an ethically indefensible decision that rightly eroded public
confidence in the products, and that should have been unnecessary in any case, since the Government communicated to the public absolute
certainty about the safety of the products. In combination with injection mandates, the legal immunity granted to injection suppliers
represents a double betrayal of the Australian public by its Government, especially those maimed and killed.
The Federal Government has likewise never explained to the Australian people why it signed contracts to purchase almost ten doses of
injection per citizen—far more than required under the Government’s or the suppliers’ own logic. To date, the Federal Government has
spent at least $18 billion on Covid injections and other treatments, approximately half of which have been binned.™111 Of the first 255
million vaccine doses purchased, only 60 million were used, with more than half set to expire and be dumped, to the estimated value of
approximately $3 billion. Australians deserve to know why so much of their treasure—approximately $1,200 from the pocket of every tax­
paying Australian—was transferred to powerful pharmaceutical corporations, when the majority of those products were not needed and
were therefore destined for disposal from the outset.
 Key Recommendations: Release all injection supplier contracts to the Australian public immediately. Offer a coherent explanation for why
 suppliers were granted legal immunity and why excessive quantities of the products were purchased. Issue a formal apology to Australian
 taxpayers for the profligate waste ofpublic money. Enact legislation requiring the Government to hold pharmaceutical companies liable
for product failure.

Population-Specific Mechanisms
Mechanisms to better targetfuture responses to the needs ofparticular populations (including across genders, age groups, socio-economic status,
geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and communities and peoplefrom culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

6.1 Virus Risk Profile
In March 2020, with precious little data, the WHO made the alarming claim that 3.4% of people who contracted Covid-19 had died.xxxlv
The following month, it became clear the WHO’s estimate was vastly overstated, and that age and comorbidities were significant risk
factors for severe disease and death from Covid-19. An analysis of over 60 studies released in January 2021 showed that across 51
locations, the median Covid-19 Infection Fatality Rate was in fact 0.27%.™v Age-stratified studies continued to affirm that the vast
majority of the world’s population was almost certain to survive Covid-19. In October 2022, an analysis was published that covered 38
countries, revealing an IFR of just 0.095% for people aged 0-69, before injection treatments™" In other words, 94% of the global
population or nearly 7.3 billion people had a 99.965% chance of surviving Covid-19, even before any health interventions.
In spite of all this data, the Australian Government continued to act as though the WHO’s earliest inaccurate estimate held true, and
absolutely refused to take age differentials into account when enacting its policies. Instead of focussing protection on the approximately
12% of Australians at higher risk of severe disease or death from Covid-19, the Government insisted on a years-long campaign of
lockdowns, border closures and injection mandates that inflicted immeasurable harm on the 88% who were almost certain to survive the
virus either way.™"1
Without explanation, the Government went to extreme measures to prevent Covid-19 deaths—even to the point of throwing human rights
to the wind and squandering untold public resources—while effectively ignoring deaths by all other causes, including deaths caused by
their own interventions. Australians deserve to know why their leaders engaged in such abject disproportionality, judging the deaths of
certain Australians more vital to avoid than others.
Key Recommendations: Issue a formal apology to Australians who lost loved ones to the Government’s Covid-19 interventions. Enact
legislation requiring Government to make the risk profde ofan emergency threat a central feature of their response.
References

' Canberra Declaration, “Canberra Declaration”, accessed December 13, 2023, https://canberradeclaration.org.au/.
” Chris Kenny, “Many censored social media posts did not contain Covid-19 misinformation,” The Australian, July 21, 2023,
https://www.theaustralian.com.au/nation/manv-censored-social-media-posts-did-not-contain-covidl9-misinformation/news-
Storv/c47a8217ffada2cf576475aef3cl2c63.
111 Rebekah Barnett, “Australia's drug regulator hid vaccine deaths from the public, concerned that ‘disclosure could undermine public confidence’,”
Dystopian Down Under, February 14, 2023, httpsV/news.rebekahbamett.com.au/p/breaking-australias-drug-regulator.
lv Denis G. Rancourt, et. al., “COVID-19 vaccine-associated mortality in the Southern Hemisphere,” Correlation Research in the Public Interest,
September 17, 2023, httr>s://correlation-canada.org/wr>-content/ur>loads/2023/09/2023-09-17-Correlation-Covid-vaccine-mortalitv-Southem-Hemisr>here-
cor.pdf.
'’Australian Medical Professionals Society, “Too Many Dead: An Inquiry into Australia's Excess Mortality,” accessed December 14, 2023,
htfr>s://amps.redunion.com.au/too-manv-dead.
V1 Rebekah Barnett, “First Covid deaths were fully vaccinated, Queensland Government records show,” Dystopian Down Under, August 24, 2023,
httpsV/news.rebekahbamett.com.au/p/first-covid-deaths-were-fullv-vaccinated.
™ Rebekah Barnett, ‘“Definite Causal Link Between All-Cause Mortality And Covid Vax Rollouts,” Principia Scientific International, September 22,
2023, https://principia-scientific.coin/definite-causal-link-between-all-cause-mortalitv-and-covid-vax-rollouts/.
™ Government of Western Australia Department of Health, “Western Australian Vaccine Safety Surveillance - Annual Report 2021,” accessed December
 14,2023, httr>s://www.health.wa.gov.au/~/media/Corp/Documents/Health-for/Immunisation/Westem-Ausfralia-Vaccine-Safetv-Surveillance-Annual-
Report-2021 .pdf.
K Sy Wilson, “Australian COVID-19 pandemic: A Bradford Hill analysis of iatrogenic excess mortality,” Journal of Clinical & Experimental
Immunology, April 1, 2023, https://www.researchgate.net/publication/368426122.
x Services Australia, “Deceased COVID-19 vaccine recipient payments and funeral costs,” accessed December 14, 2023,
https://www.servicesaustralia.gov.au/deceased-Covid-19-vaccine-recipient-payments-and-ftineral-costs-vou-can-claim-through-Covid-19.
X1 Rebekah Barnett, “Government Stalls On Compo For COVID Vaccine Injuries,” Umbrella, June 23, 2023,
https://umbrellanews.com.au/featured/2023/06/govemment-stalls-on-compo-for-covid-vaccine-iniuries/.
""Australian Government Department ofHealth and Aged Care, “Australian Immunisation Handbook,” accessed December 14, 2023,
https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/.
xl” Rebekah Barnett & JJ Starky, “‘The largest global vaccination trial ever’,” Dystopian Down Under, November 13, 2023,
https://news.rebekahbamett.com.au/p/the-largest-global-vaccination-trial.
xlv Ramesh Thakur, “Questions for Australia's drug regulators,” The Spectator Australia, April 8, 2023, https://www.spectator.com.au/2023/04/questions-
for-australias-drug-regulators/.
xv Ramesh Thakur, “The Great Vaccine Debate: Presentation Notes & Links,” September 2, 2021.
XV1 UNESCO, “Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights,” accessed December 14, 2023, https://www.unesco.org/en/legal-affairs/universal-
declaration-bioethics-and-human-rights.
xv” Parliament ofAustralia, “COVID-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting
COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023,” accessed December 13, 2023,
https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentarv Business/Committees/Senate/Education and Employment/VaccineDiscrimination.
xv°i CjPivng.oyg, ‘Tvermectin for COVID-19: real-time meta analysis of 99 studies.” November 27. 2023. https://cl9ivm.org/meta.html.
XK C19hcq.org, “HCQ for COVID-19: real-time meta analysis of 414 studies,” November 27, 2023, https://c 19hcq.org/meta.html.
""Australian Government Department ofHealth and Aged Care, “New restrictions on prescribing ivermectin for COVID-19,” September 10, 2021,
https://www.tga.gov.au/news/media-releases/new-restnctions-prescribing-ivermectin-Covid-19.
XX1 Christopher Knaus and Michael McGowan, “One tonne of Clive Palmer hydroxychloroquine sent for destruction after dispute with TGA,” The
 Guardian, October 12, 2021, https://www.theguardian.com/ausfralia-news/2021/oct/13/five-million-doses-of-hvdroxvchloroquine-destroved-after-stand-
off-between-clive-palmer-and-govemment.
xx” Amiel A. Dror et. al., “Pre-infection 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 levels and association with severity of COVID-19 illness,” Pios One, February 3, 2022,
https://ioumals.plos.org/plosone/article7idM0.1371/ioumal.pone.0263069 .
xxm Julie Sladden, “Pandemic reckoning: Australians deserve a review,” The Spectator Australia, May 18, 2022,
https://www.spectator.com.au/2022/05/pandemic-reckoning-australians-deserve-a-review/.
XXIV Topher Field, “Battleground Melbourne,” July 27, 2022, Vimeo video, https://vimeo.com/734185788.
xxv Caldron Pool, “Here's a List of the Published Side Effects of Lockdowns,” August 16, 2021, httr>s://caldronr>ool.com/heres-a-list-of-the-r>ublished-side-
effects-of-lockdowns/.
xxvl Peter Shergold AC et. al., “Fault Lines: An independent review into Australia's response to COVID-19,” October 20, 2022, https://assets.website-
files.com/62b998c0c9af9f65bba26051/6350438b7dI8c77439846e97 FAULT-LINES-l.pdf.
xxv” Morgan Begg & Daniel Wild, “Hard Lessons: Reckoning the Economic, Social and Humanitarian Costs of Zero-Covid,” Institute ofPublic Affairs, 21
September, 2022, https://ipa.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/220921-IPA-Report-Hard-Lessons-Reckoning-the-econoinic-social-and-humanitarian-
costs-of-zero-COVID.pdf.
xxvm Gigi Foster, “Do lockdowns and border closures serve the ‘greater good’?: A cost-benefit analysis of Australia's reaction to COVID-19,” August 1,
2022, https://www.thegreatcovidpanic.coin/ files/ugd/23eb94 33b4f30ef8fa4e6eafla7e62d571a9a7.pdf.
     Ramesh Thakur, “Covid in the age of unreason,” The Spectator Australia, August 21, 2021, https://www.spectator.com.au/2021/08/covid-in-the-age-
of-unreason/.
     United Nations, “Universal Declaration of Human Rights,” accessed December 13, 2023, https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-
human-rights.
xxxl Angelo Maria Pezzullo et. al. “Age-stratified infection fatality rate of COVID-19 in the non-elderly informed from pre-vaccination national
seroprevalence studies,” MedRxiv, October 13, 2022, https://www.medrxiv.Org/content/10.l 101/2022.10.11.22280963vl.
xxx” Dana McCauley, “Vaccine suppliers given indemnity for ‘inevitable’ side effects, Sydney Morning Herald, October 8, 2020,
https://www.smh.com.au/politics/federal/morrison-govemment-grants-indemnitv-for-Covid-19-vaccine-side-effects-20201008-p5636o.html.
xxxm Tom Lowry, “Australia has ordered millions more COVID vaccines than it needs. What are the options to deal with them?” ABC News, July 17, 2022,
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-07-18/australia-covid-vaccine-surplus-options/101237430 .
xxx17 World Health Organization, “WHO Director-General's opening remarks at the media briefing on COVID-19 — 3 March 2020,” accessed December
 13, 2023, https://www.who.int/director-generaVspeeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-at-the-media-briefmg-on-Covid-19—3-march-
2020.
xxxv John P A loannidis, “Infection fatality rate of COVID-19 inferred from seroprevalence data,” Bulletin of the World Health Organisation, October 14,
2020, https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33716331/.
xxxvl Angelo Maria Pezzullo et. al. “Age-stratified infection fatality rate of COVID-19 in the non-elderly informed from pre-vaccination national
seroprevalence studies,”MedRxiv, October 13, 2022, https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.10.ll.22280963vl.
"s™ Australian Government Australian Institute ofHealth and Welfare, “Profile of Australia's population,” June 6, 2023,
https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/australias-healtb/profile-of-ausfralias-population.
