I have lived in   I, Western Australia, my whole life. I am a middle-aged single man with no
children and have worked in a variety of industries, from retail to agriculture to manufacturing to
warehousing. Anticipating the introduction of vaccine mandates, I sold my house in early 2021 and
moved into a rental property. I was a keen gardener and used to keep finches, but have given up
those hobbies, as I now live in a small unit. I considered moving interstate or overseas, but the
response to Covid was much the same worldwide. I resigned from my job as a storeman in January
2022, when vaccine mandates came into force in Western Australia, and have not held a steady job
since. The Western Australian and Commonwealth Governments' response to COVID-19 has greatly
impacted my life.

The COVID-19 Response Inquiry will be reviewing governance, including the role of the
Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory governments, national
governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the
Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to
COVID-19. I understand that it is not within the remit of this inquiry to review actions taken
unilaterally by state and territory governments; however, I would argue that the Commonwealth
Government was complicit in imposing lockdowns and vaccine mandates. Although states
implemented lockdowns and vaccine mandates independently of one another, not one state
unilaterally refused to implement them.

National Cabinet — which includes the Prime Minister as a representative of the Commonwealth —
was established to coordinate and deliver a consistent national response to the COVID-19
pandemic. On 13th March 2020, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced, 'Commonwealth,
State and Territory governments have agreed to provide public advice against holding non­
essential, organised public gatherings of more than 500 people ...' [emphasis mine]. This marked
the beginning of escalating COVID measures, culminating in the introduction of Stage 1
restrictions, approved by National Cabinet and announced by the Prime Minister on 22nd March
2020, plunging the nation into lockdown. On 6th August 2021, National Cabinet agreed to the
National Plan to transition Australia's National COVID-19 Response. Under this agreement,
"highly targeted lockdowns" remained an option under phase three, which remained in effect
until 6th July 2022. The Commonwealth Government was anxious to keep the deliberations of
National Cabinet secret, introducing the COAG Legislation Amendment Bill 2021 to exempt
National Cabinet documents from FOI requests. The Commonwealth Government demonstrated
a pattern of evading scrutiny. Parliament was suspended from March until August of 2020,
meaning that the Government could not be held accountable at a time when it was crucial to
examine its decisions.

Recent studies suggest that lockdowns were of minimal benefit and caused significant
psychological and economic damage. There was never unanimity among scientists over
lockdowns.were early critics. Based o |
advice, Sweden refrained from locking down, instead relying on voluntary measures. 16,109
medical and public health scientists signed the Great Barrington Declaration, along with 47,658
medical practitioners. The evidence cited in favour of lockdowns was always questionable. The
figures coming out of China, which showed cases plateauing at around 80,000 in early March,
apparently as a result of its harsh lockdowns, should have been regarded with suspicion,
especially given China's lack of transparency in the early stages of the pandemic. And in May
2020,shown to be based on flawed modelling. Yet lockdowns
continued. National Cabinet and the AHPPC chose to listen to some scientists and to ignore
others.

The Government also refused to listen to laypeople who warned of the harms of lockdowns.
Throughout the pandemic, I wrote to politicians at state and federal level on multiple occasions.
I rarely received a reply, and when I did, it was usually a boilerplate response, reiterating familiar
talking points. Because politicians wouldn't listen and protesting was illegal, many in the
freedom movement took to social media, where they faced censorship. The Commonwealth
Department of Home Affairs referred 4,213 COVID-19 related social media posts to digital
platforms to review against their own terms of service, many of which were removed on the
Department's recommendation. Many of the censored posts contained statements that were
true. Others merely expressed an opinion. The Commonwealth suppressed inconvenient facts,
denied Australians their right to express an opinion, and ensured that there would be nowhere
for the public to debate COVID policy. The argument that the states unilaterally imposed
lockdowns, mask mandates and vaccine mandates does not make sense if the Commonwealth
actively censored criticism of state policies.

Furthermore, lockdown opponents were relentlessly vilified in an attempt to demoralise and
discredit them. They were labelled "misinformation spreaders". ACMA claimed that COVID-19
misinformation "can pose a risk to the health and safety of individuals, as well as society more
generally ". ASIO claimed that the far-right was exploiting COVID-19 restrictions to promote its
narratives and recruit new members. Senator Kristina Keneally repeated this claim, calling on the
government to adequately fund programs to counter violent extremism. The Commonwealth-
funded ABC and SBS published many articles portraying lockdown opponents as potentially
violent extremists. In February 2023, ASIO chief Mike Burgess admitted that far-right groups had
"probably not" been successful in recruiting significant numbers during the pandemic. This
raises the question of whether there ever was a concerted effort from far-right groups to
infiltrate anti-lockdown and anti-mandate groups. The claim never made sense. One would not
expect anti-authoritarian groups to be fertile recruiting ground for authoritarian groups. I was a
moderator of an anti-lockdown Facebook group with thousands of members, and I saw no sign
of such activity. I believe the claim of far-right infiltration was propaganda, an attempt to
establish guilt by association. Labelling someone "far-right" evokes the atrocities of World War II.
"Far-right extremist" was probably the most objectionable label applied to lockdown opponents,
but there were many others — "conspiracy theorist", "anti-science", "stupid", "selfish", etc.
Knowingly or unknowingly, many politicians and Commonwealth agencies participated in character
assassination, which took a personal toll on many lockdown opponents.

In August 2020, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said he expected that COVID-19 vaccination
would be "as mandatory as you can possibly make it", adding, "I was the minister that
established 'No jab, no play', so my view on this is pretty clear." The Commonwealth purchased
enough vaccines for every Australian to receive multiples doses and distributed them to the
states. National Cabinet set high vaccination targets. The Commonwealth authorised the
advertising slogan "We're not safe until we're all safe". The signalling was clear. The
Commonwealth supported vaccine mandates for aged care workers, disability workers and those
in high-risk situations in the health system. It provided the infrastructure for state vaccine
mandates by requiring COVID-19 vaccinations to be registered with the AIR and issuing
vaccination certificates. The Commonwealth also assisted other countries in enforcing vaccine
mandates by providing International COVID-19 Vaccination Certificates. While they may no
longer be in force, vaccine mandates have had a permanent impact on many peoples' lives.
Vaccine mandates were a breach of the Nuremberg Code, which states: "The voluntary consent
of the human subject is absolutely essential. This means that the person involved should have
legal capacity to give consent; should be so situated as to be able to exercise free power of
choice, without the intervention of any element of force, fraud, deceit, duress, overreaching, or
other ulterior form of constraint or coercion ..." COVID-19 vaccines do not prevent the
contraction or transmission of COVID. There was never any evidence to support the latter claim.
WHO data published in October 2020 suggested that the original strain of          p        rr di
infection fatality rate of 0.27%. Vaccine mandates were neither reasonable nor proportionate,
and the Commonwealth was complicit in imposing and enforcing them.

I understand that this panel will look to submissions for ideas to make recommendations about
how the Commonwealth responds to future pandemics. In any future crisis, the
Commonwealth Government must be open to scrutiny. The Government's desire for secrecy
damaged public trust. National Cabinet documents should be subject to FOI requests.
Parliament should not be suspended during a crisis. Members can meet virtually if necessary.

Reducing case numbers and preventing the health system from being overwhelmed seemed to
be the only criteria policymakers considered. Any future pandemic response should not be
based solely on epidemiological modelling but also consider the broader impact of proposed
control measures. Politicians ought to question scientific advice and seek dissenting opinions
before reaching an independent decision.

During the pandemic, Australians were urged to exercise critical thinking and consider whether a
source of information was reliable before repeating a claim. Politicians and Commonwealth
employees should be held to the same standard. The truth was always out there. The
bandwagon fallacy, appealing to a scientific consensus or to what other countries were doing, is
neither a moral nor a rational justification. Following "the science" or "the latest health advice"
does not absolve them of responsibility for implementing harmful policies. I often hear the
excuse that they were acting on imperfect information but had good intentions. The zeal with
which they maligned and scapegoated critics casts doubt on their intentions, as does their
unwillingness to explain the reasons for their decisions. They must be held accountable, both
professionally and legally. Laypeople, also acting on imperfect information and with good
intentions, tried to warn them of the obvious disastrous consequences of their decisions.
Policymakers have no excuse.

Commonwealth decisionmakers must also consider whether state policies are ethical before
offering support. The Commonwealth is morally obligated not to support unethical policies. The
Commonwealth subsidised lockdowns through schemes such as JobKeeper and provided ADF
personnel to enforce state lockdowns. The states could not have imposed such harsh lockdowns for
so long without support from the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth should not provide financial
support or resources for states to impose draconian restrictions.

We must never see a repeat of 2020 in Australia.
