Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry Submission



I believe this inquiry should be a Royal Commission to look into the disgraceful State and Federal
Government's response to the Covid virus that has crippled this country that we call our home.

The State and Federal Government's response to the Covid virus has had the biggest impact on
Australian Society they took away our human rights and medical privacy.

The Government response to Covid 19 was completely disproportionate and as they delighted in
telling us "Unprecedented", and treated us like small children without a brain.

State Government and their policies were at the front and centre of the pandemic response and to
exclude Actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments is an absolute disgrace.

State Governments need to be held accountable for their behaviour and bullying of the people.

I demand that all Actions taken by state and territory governments be included in the scope of the
Royal Commission.

In addition, I demand that all Actions taken by International programs and activities assisting foreign
countries including bodies such as the United Nations, World Health Organisation and the World
Economic Forum be included in the scope of the Royal Commission

We need a full and thorough Royal Commission to explore everything and ensure that those who
violated human rights and caused serious physical, economic and psychological harm are held to
account.

I myself suffered significantly by being allergic to the Pfizer vaccine having an anaphylactic shock
severe swelling all over my abdomen shocking rash all over my body and if I had my second vaccine
would not be here today to tell the story. After I was given an exemption to not have another
vaccine I was treated like a Leper and discriminated by business's because I could not produce a
vaccine certificate as they were not informed by the Qld Health Department that an exemption was
a legitimate certificate, as a^^year-old widow this was very intimidating.


I demand a full and through Royal Commission hold a proper investigation into but not limited to:

    -   all Actions taken by state and territory governments including lockdowns, border closures,
        hospital access, vaccine discrimination, vaccine mandates, breach of privacy laws, breach of
        human rights, weaponisation of police force, segregation based on covid 19 vaccine status,
        violations of the Australian constitution.
    -   all Actions taken by International programs and activities assisting foreign countries
        including bodies such as the United Nations, World Health Organisation and the World
        Economic Forum
    -   Failure of the Federal Government to amend and/or create Anti-Discrimination legislation to
        prevent discrimination on the basis of Covid 19 Vaccination status.
   -      False and Misleading Advertising by State and Federal Governments in relation to Covid
          Vaccines including but not limited to false claims, failure to disclose emergency use approval
          provisions and failure to disclose any risks
   -      Failure of State, Federal Governments and Business's to provide Informed Consent in
          relation to Covid 19 Vaccines.
   -      Failure of Government to adequately disclose the experimental nature of Covid 19 vaccines
          and inform the public of the steps and process that were excluded (in relation to the
          standard approval process) under emergency use authorisations.
   -          Failure of Government to disclose risks
   -      Failure of Government to acknowledge / research / procure safe and effective treatments or
          alternative treatments for Covid 19
   -          Suppression of safe and effective treatments for Covid 19
   -          Failure of State, Federal Governments and Business's to comply with Privacy Laws.
   -          Provision of Medical Advice by State Premiers whilst Unlicensed.
   -          Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts
   -          Vaccine mandates
   -          Sacking of workers based on Covid 19 vaccination status
   -          Vaccine injuries
   -          Mask mandates and lockdowns
   -      Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of Covid 19 vaccines to block
          infection and transmission
   -      Government misinformation in the media denying the seriousness and prevalence of vaccine
          injuries and gaslighting of the injured.
   -          Excess Death Rates in 2022 and 2023
   -      Decision to seize and destroy the vast quantities of Hydroxychloroquine donated by Clive
          Palmer
   -      Failure to implement the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza,
          which prophetically described why all of the actions the Government did take would not
          work and would cause hardship.
   -      Disclosure of the Decision Process to ignore the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan
          for Pandemic Influenza.
   -      The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the vaccine
          and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession.




I look forward to my Voice being heard.

I look forward to this inquiry being upgraded to a Royal Commission so that those who decided they
had a right to encroach on Human Rights are held fully accountable.



Regards



Name Supplied via Submission Process
