              COVID INQUIRY SUBMISSION BY A CONCERNED CITIZEN
                                     December 15, 2023

       I am a concerned Australian citizen. I am neither left wing nor right wing and neither

pro-vax nor anti-vax. I have never attended a protest, and I have never had cause to write to a

politician, until the Covid-19 pandemic. I am writing this submission within the limitations of

its terms of reference, which is unfortunate and ironically emblematic of the erosion of due

democratic process in Australia today. So, to have a voice in the process, I am requesting this

panel consider three areas for investigation. Firstly, regarding governance, who was in

charge, who were the responsible parties in the advisory bodies, what were their motivations

in promoting the vaccines, and how are they now being held to account? Secondly, regarding

key health response measures, why was there no open scientific discussion of the safety and

efficacy of the experimental vaccines, why were the views of prominent and pre-eminent

health professionals ignored, and why the lack of transparency? Thirdly, regarding the needs

of particular populations, why was bodily autonomy stripped from the individual, and why

are there still vaccine mandates in place for NSW Health and other populations? Below I

pose some areas for debate for the panel, with the hope that they will agree on the need for a

proper democratic process in the form of a full Royal Commission, as promised by the

incoming Prime Minister Albanese.

                  What was the “health advice” and who was behind it?

       During the pandemic there were several organisations driving the pandemic response

and narrative for Australia. The World Health Organisation (WHO), the Food and Drug

Administration (FDA) in the US, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), and the

Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI), which “advises the

Minister for Health and Aged Care on the National Immunisation Program (NIP)”

(health.gov.au, 2023) among others. Unbeknownst to me before the pandemic, the WHO is
                                                                                                 2


not an alliance of member states, but is driven by private influence. The largest contribution

of funding comes from the combined contribution of the

and^^^Hanother^^J organisation (WHO, 2020). 66% of the FDA’s funding for human

drugs comes from user fees, or the companies who are seeking regulation for the drugs they

wish to sell                             2023). Similarly, the TGA is a cost-recovered entity

(TGA, 2021). These organisations exist to protect the populations they serve, and are

supposed to be independent and impartial. However, every decision made during the

pandemic was skewed toward the promotion of therapeutic goods and the commercial

interests of the organisations and individuals most likely to profit from the sale of these

goods. Unfortunately, the safety and efficacy of the vaccinations were irrelevant to these

goals. The Australian public deserves to know what direct and indirect rewards were received

by all decision-makers during the pandemic, especially if they have resigned or retired, to

ascertain any and every motivation towards a commercial bias. Those who deliberately lied,

must be prosecuted to uphold the principle of justice.

                              mRNA vaccine safety and efficacy

        There has never been any evidence to predict with any surety how the human body

might react to experimental mRNA vaccinations in the long term. So how is it possible to

claim the safety of the vaccines? All the assumptions for long-term safety were predicated on

the behaviour of traditional vaccines. It is now known that the 95% vaccine efficacy rate

promoted for the        vaccine was a relative term and the absolute risk reduction rate was

just 0.84%             2022) and that the vaccines do not prevent transmission

(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5A2ZkW8pUWg). However, the narrative continues:

the vaccines are safe and effective. I have previously contested that advertising about the

"safety and efficacy" of the mRNA vaccines contradicts advertising standards, and I attach

my complaint in February 2022 to this submission, for your information.
                                                                                                   3


        There are so many anomalies surrounding the “science” of the vaccines too numerous

to fit into a three page submission. However, what is critical to this inquiry is the need to

expose bias and corruption at all levels. For example, the origins of the virus, the appearance

of patented geneti c code in the spike protein; the clinical trial process (selection of and

practices at trial laboratories); the toxicity and longevity of spike protein and how it expresses

in the body (liver, ovaries); vaccine batch production; false positive PCR tests and adverse

events. This panel needs to objectively review the work of experts opposing the narrative

including Prof.                  Dr                                                  Dr. |


                   anc*                         name a few-1 recommend the objective analyses

by Dr                                                                     ) as an accessible way

of reviewing data available with a view to upholding the principle of truth.

                                       Vaccine mandates

        As a healthy individual without comorbidities, I have never been at risk for death or

serious disease from Covid-19 with the median age of death being 86 years in 2020 (ABS,

2020). When I finally contracted Covid-19,1 managed the problem as I would any other

respiratory virus. Yet in 2023, Covid-19 vaccinations are still mandated at NSW health, even

though I have a greater level of protection through natural immunity and the risk of an

adverse event is greater for me than the risk from the virus. Excess deaths in Australia have

an undeniable temporal correlation to the vaccination roll-out                2023b). Blind

Freddy could see the correlation, yet no government officials are able to admit to the fact.

Who determined that Australian citizens have no legitimacy over their bodily autonomy, or

the ability to discern for themselves their level of risk? Censorship and autocratic and

arbitrary impositions of such mandates are a gross violation of our human and democratic

rights. I ask the panel to uphold this most important principle of freedom and escalate the

inquiry to the level of Royal Commission.
                                                                                               4


                                          References

Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) (2020). Causes of death, Australia: Statistics on the

       number of deaths, by sex, selected age groups, and cause of death classified to the

       International Classification of Diseases (ICD).

       https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health/causes-death/causes-death-australia/2020

Department of Health, Therapeutic Goods Administration (2021). Business Plan 2021-22.

       https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/tga-business-plan-2021-22.pdf

Department of Health and Aged Care (December, 2023). Australian Technical Advisory

       Group on Immunisation (ATAGI). https://www.health.gov.c ;/committees-and-

       groups/australian-technical-advisory-group-on-immunisation-atagi

Department of Health and Aged Care (December, 2023). Therapeutic Goods Administration

       (TGA). https://www.tga.gov.ai

Campbell, J. (2023a). Dr John Campbell. https://www.voutube.eom/@Campbellteaching

Campbell, J. (2023b). Bad Australian vaccine data.

       https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=116Q2r5VWLo

Malhotra, A. (2022). Curing the pandemic of misinformation on COVID-19 mRNA vaccines

       through real evidence-based medicine - part 1. Journal ofInsulin Resistance, 5(1), 1­

       8. https://doi.org/10.4102/jir.v5il.71

Parasrampuria, S., and Beleche, T. (2023). FDA User fees: Examining changes in medical

       product development and economic benefits. Washington, DC: Office of the Assistant

       Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, U.S. Department of Health and Human

       Services. March 2023.

       https://aspe.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/e4a7910607c0dd76c40aa61 15 ld!54

       f9/FD A-User-Fee-Issue-Brief.pdf
                                                                                             5


Terhes, C. (2022). Pfizer representative's full hearing in the special CO VID committee of the

       European Parliament. https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=5A2ZkW8pUWg

World Health Organisation. (2020). Seventy-third World Health Assembly agenda item 20:

       Audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2019.

       https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/l 0665339656
