I am an individual who would like to submit my perspective on the Covid 19 response carried out by
our government. I worked on a mine site                     until I lost my job because of the
vaccine mandates, put in place by my company^J I felt I had the right to choose if I wanted to get
the vaccine or not, but it should have been my choice not the company I worked for dictating.

The insurmountable pressure placed on the company's workforce to comply or lose their
jobs/livelihood and income, has led to depression, marriage breakups and even suicides.

Because of our decision not to be vaccinated we were made feel, by the government, by social media
and the people closest to us that we were somehow contaminated, not invited to family gatherings,
not allowed into sporting/musical events. Not allowed to see our dying parents in aged care homes
or be with our loved ones in hospitals. The propaganda on television was unrelenting.

Governments took away what humans need and desire the most, human touch and human contact.

What I feel messed with us the most were the lockdowns and the inconsistent rules. How was it we
had to stand six feet apart then were allowed to sit shoulder to shoulder on a plane. We could sit at a
restaurant but not stand. You were allowed to buy alcohol in stores but other essentials were off
limits.

Who made these rules up? Why such different rules for different states?

 I feel people have lost respect and faith in our government bodies. It will take a lot of transparency
to get it back.

Myself, I don't believe my company did it for the health of its workers, I believe they had other
incentives given to them by the government to make their workforce comply. It has affected my
mental health along with so many more which I'm sure you understand with the data on suicide
numbers since the lockdowns.

The pressure placed on doctors again by government bodies not to speak out against the vaccines
even to the detriment of their patient's health is unforgivable. They were concerned, they would lose
their professions if they spoke out about it. People have lost faith in doctors also.

Moving forward I believe we need more transparency, trust built, as we have somewhat lost trust the
big companies and the government, based on what we were subject to over the last three years.

We need to be able to trust our doctors to the right thing by our health without the fear of
reprimand from a governing body.
