Dear Mr Albanese,

I am requesting a proper Royal Commission for a proper investigation into the
handling of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The way this outbreak continues to be managed creates a lot of fear. People have
been fed misinformation, data has been manipulated, and it has led to a decline in
our society’s mental and physical health.

There has been corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts which puts money
in big business pockets but doesn’t protect the people of our country. Gene therapy
vaccines were pushed into the market without adequate testing and data was
manipulated. Australians deserve openness, honesty, and choice regarding their
own health decisions.

Mask mandates, vaccine mandates, and lockdowns have done more harm than
good. Hardworking people lost their jobs and many businesses went bankrupt. The
incidence of mental health conditions skyrocketed. These measures should never be
forced on Australians again.

The media lied to the public that vaccines could block transmission. The push for
vaccination wasn’t in the best interests of the public. There are so many people now
with vaccine injuries and myocarditis. People were told to wait at home until they
were just too sick and so some then lost their lives. What about all the things people
should be doing for the first stage of illness? Why wasn’t early onset care pushed in
the media? Why was ivermectin hidden when the data showed its effectiveness?
Those people who tried to promote these other effective health measures were
censored in the media. People who were censored for sharing true information and
people who have vaccine injuries should receive an apology and deserve a proper
investigation so this never happens again.

Doctors were silenced and AHPRA and ATAGI were in on this censorship and
oppression of doctors. So many amazing medical professionals lost their jobs which
led to hospital staff shortages and overwork for remaining staff. I am a health worker
and this whole situation was handled abysmally. Our healthcare system can be
amazing but only if managed effectively and throughout the pandemic and beyond it
has been totally mismanaged. We need proper plans so this can never happen
again.

My family is demanding answers that only a Royal Commission can deliver.

Regards,
