 The Australian Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic
              Australian Trade and Investment Commission Submission


The Australian Trade and Investment Commission (Austrade) Overview

Austrade is an Australian Government agency within the Foreign Affairs and Trade portfolio,
responsible for delivering quality trade and investment services to businesses, promoting Australian
education globally, and developing and implementing tourism policy.

At a practical level, Austrade connects Australian exporters to global export opportunities and shares
knowledge and trusted advice to make the export journey easier, faster and more successful. We
promote Australia as a destination of choice to potential international students and promote
Australia as a promising place to invest, attract investors to specific projects and help facilitate
foreign capital into projects that will develop Australian capability and create jobs. In tourism, we
lead Australian Government policy, programs and the official statistics for tourism and the visitor
economy. Austrade also provides consular and passport services in designated overseas locations to
Australian citizens where there is no Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) presence.

Austrade's contribution to the Australian Government's COVID-19 response

To support Australia's economic recovery from COVID-19, the government called on Austrade to
deliver program support for Australian businesses. This included initiatives such as the International
Freight Assistance Mechanism to help re-establish Australia's airfreight supply chains to enable
exports and critical COVID-related imports, administering tourism programs to support the visitor
economy, and continued consular support to help repatriate Australians offshore. These programs
were delivered alongside Austrade's regular trade, investment, education and tourism
responsibilities. Further information on Austrade led COVID-19 response programs is as follows.

The International Freight Assistance Mechanism (IFAM)

IFAM was a temporary emergency measure established to restore key airfreight routes following the
collapse in international passenger flights into and out of Australia. The total program funding
between 1 April 2020 and 30 June 2022 was $1,062 million.

Over the life of the program, IFAM maintained connections for Australia to 63 international
destinations, enabling the movement of more than 50,750 tonnes of high-value perishable Australian
products to international customers and facilitating the import of nationally important goods,
including medical supplies, on over 28,000 flights.

Agri Business Expansion Initiative (ABEI)

ABEI was a funding package aimed at supporting Australian food and agriculture exporters through a
period of economic challenges, including a difficult and complex global trading environment due to
COVID-19. As part of this package, Austrade received $42.9 million to bolster the number of agri­
food exporters that received Austrade's support to maintain, diversify and expand their export
markets amidst these challenges.

Funding through ABEI directly supported a total of 2,091 agribusiness exporters and provided 6,706
services between 1 January 2021 and 30 June 2022. As of December 2022, these exporters had gone
on to see more than 1,000 reported trade outcomes, valued at $1.3 billion. Austrade's evaluation of

                                                                                                         1
ABEI using merchandise trade data, demonstrated ABEI clients had better outcomes than other
exporters.

Visitor Economy Support

Austrade delivered a number of government funded programs to ensure the ongoing viability of
tourism businesses. These were the:

1.   Supporting Australia's Exhibiting Zoos and Aquariums Program

The $139.6 million Supporting Australia's Exhibiting Zoos and Aquariums Program helped 140 zoos,
aquariums and wildlife parks maintain and care for animal populations during the downturn in visitor
numbers due to the pandemic.

2.   Business Events Grants Program

The $56 million Business Events Grants Program increased confidence in business travel and
supported attendance in the $35.7 billion business events sector which saw an almost 100% loss in
revenue due to the pandemic. With more than 1,500 applicants awarded funding, and together with
matched funding, the program injected $100 million into the economy.

3.   COVID Consumer Travel Support Program

The $258 million COVID Consumer Travel Support Program assisted travel agents and tour
arrangement service providers to continue to hold credits and process refunds for consumers unable
to travel due to the pandemic.

4.   Recovery for Regional Tourism Fund

The $50 million Recovery for Regional Tourism Fund delivered tailored support to nine regions and
tourism businesses disproportionately affected by the economic impacts of the pandemic and the
loss of international visitors. Funded projects and activities attracted visitors to the regions and
improved the regions' capacity to meet the needs of domestic visitors.

Austrade consular services

Austrade provides consular services on behalf of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade in 11
locations. Consistent with support provided by DFAT-led posts, Austrade's COVID-19 consular support
helped vulnerable Australians during international border closures and lockdowns by facilitating
access to flights to Australia and providing financial assistance where required through the Hardship
Program.

Specifically, Austrade supported travel through Frankfurt Airport, including three Qantas repatriation
flights in December 2020, January 2021 and February 2021, assisted Australians transiting Dubai,
including those initially stranded at the Dubai International Airport, assisted Australians returning
home on seven flights from Sao Paulo, and helped repatriate Australians from the Zaandam and
Rotterdam cruise ships.

Post-program reflections

Evaluation of Austrade delivered programs highlighted the following:

Time limited nature of short-term support programs should be better addressed through program
structures



                                                                                                       2
Leading up to the pandemic, some tourism businesses were notably affected by technology changes,
a changing market demand profile, and a more concentrated supply chain. When the pandemic
commenced, government support covered firms that would have naturally transitioned out of the
industry.

Some segments of the tourism sector recognised government support was temporary and
proactively shifted their focus; the zoo and aquarium industry, for example, pivoted to domestic
visitor earnings prior to support programs ending in June 2022. This proactive effort adapted to the
changed circumstances of the pandemic. However, other industry bodies such as the former
Australian Federation of Travel Agents and the Council of Australian Tour Operators continue to lobby
for additional government funding given international travel has still not returned to pre-COVID
levels. Public messaging about temporary programs needs to emphasise funding is time-limited,
encourage funding recipients to actively identify alternative revenues or changes in business practice
and therefore be designed and implemented in such a way that it achieves this aim and supports
industry to adapt.

Regular engagement with a wide range of key stakeholders needs to be meaningful

The IFAM program's integrated, regular and consistent communication and engagement with key
stakeholders in industry and government was key to its success. Strategic communication was
developed within IFAM's delivery teams (operations and commercial), creating the foundation for
continuous outreach and engagement across a broad spectrum of stakeholders. Business intelligence
and insights garnered from industry and government stakeholders were collated and analysed to
inform program decision-making, then circulated back to stakeholders for situational awareness and
to inform their own commercial decision-making.

Successful program elements provide the foundation for future program design

IFAM is a prime example of a government program established in a highly volatile and complex
emergency response environment. The program demonstrated the benefits of having the right skill
sets working in an agile whole-of-government team. The program also effectively evolved from
emergency response to a sustainable large-scale program. Important features of IFAM that can
inform future programs include its approach to rapid implementation, its leadership model, effective
multidisciplinary and geographically dispersed teams, good governance, clear grants eligibility criteria
and processes, targeted stakeholder engagement and data analytics underpinning decision making.

Delivering pandemic support had a high administrative burden

The pandemic required significant government intervention in many areas within Austrade's
responsibility, such as the tourism sector. Austrade's departmental capacity needed to expand
however additional funding was not made available. Reallocation of staff stretched the system and
had domino effects creating pressure on Austrade's ability to deliver its core business and significant
pressure on its enabling corporate areas (for instance IT, HR, security and recruitment).

At the same time, newly established programs received very high numbers of ineligible applications
from businesses which fell outside program criteria. Dealing with the ineligible businesses created a
high workload for the agency and Ministers' staff. Managing these situations resulted in Austrade
enduring considerable staff turnover, and burnout, alongside staff and client dissatisfaction.

Ultimately, to meet the peak demand for tourism response and recovery programs, agency funds
needed to be redirected from other functions, while also affecting the agency's cash reserves as
COVID programs were extended without additional funds to support their delivery. Some of this came


                                                                                                          3
from redirecting funding from programs like the Approved Destination Status scheme that were not
able to progress during border closures.

Austrade's ongoing funding available to deliver programs continues to be impacted.




                                                                                                   4
