As a concerned member of the public, I think it is great that Australia has announced
the creation of a Centre for Disease Control and commissioned this Inquiry.

There’s a long-standing public health adage that prevention is better than a cure.
The same logic applies to pandemics. Pike et al. in “The Origin and Prevention of
Pandemics” showed that the “wait-and-respond approach is not sufficient and that
the development of systems to prevent pandemics before they are established
should be considered imperative to human health”^. I think this insight should be
foundational to the direction of this Inquiry.

My submission highlights two origins for pandemics requiring attention, as they are
becoming increasingly dangerous - zoonoses and malicious engineering.

Land use change, intensive farming practices, travel and trade, and climate change
are known drivers of novel zoonoses1  2. The Inquiry should recommend practical
interventions that reduce their risk.

Land use change is a known driver of disease spillover from animals to humans3.
For example, urbanisation causing both nutritional stress and the fragmentation of
flying fox habitats is attributed to the spillover of Hendra virus into horses and
humans in Queensland4.

Intensive farming practices produce cheaper meat due to increasing livestock
density and turnover. Animals are being packed closer and closer together in factory
farms, breathing and defecating on top of each other. This environment is a breeding
ground for novel pathogens whose evolution is accelerated by the density of hosts
and the abundance of transmission routes. These practices have a negative public
health externality in both antimicrobial resistance and pandemic potential viruses.

A side effect of travel and trade is the spread of disease. There are concerns that
activities like the movement of live animals through legal (live animal exports) and
illegal (smuggling) trade may propagate spillover risks at each point.

Climate change is increasing the spillover risks from anthropogenic land use5. At
least 10,000 virus species have the ability to infect humans but, at present, the vast
majority are circulating silently in wild mammals. Changes in climate and land use
leads to opportunities for viral sharing among previously geographically isolated
species. By 2070, it is expected that there will be 300,000 novel animal pair
encounters globally which will double the opportunities for one of the estimated
10,000 viruses in wildlife to move between species.
For all four factors, the Inquiry can recommend that Australia, including through
national and jurisdictional biosecurity strategies, implement practical interventions
and programs to address these trends and risks.


1 The Origin and Prevention of Pandemics - PMC (nih.gov)
2 The Need to Prioritize Prevention of Viral Spillover in the Anthropopandemicene: A Message to
Global Health Researchers and Policymakers; Intensity and freguency of extreme novel epidemics
3 Land Use-Induced Spillover: A Call to Action to Safeguard Environmental, Animal, and Human
Health
4 The emergence of Hendra virus from flying foxes (Pteropus spp.)
5 Climate change increases cross-species viral transmission risk
Further, even though assisting foreign governments is not in the terms of reference
of this Inquiry, such international policies protect Australians. The Inquiry should
consider recommendations that leverage Australian international leadership to
pursue global pandemic prevention that keeps Australians safe from external threats.

Capacity building in the Asia-Pacific region can be a key contribution to global and
national health. At least 4 out of 9 pandemics that have occurred since 1900
originated from Asia, due to high human and animal population density6. Good work
is already being done by the Indo-Pacific Centre for Health Security7. The Inquiry
should consider making recommendations on how this work could be expanded and
focused on pandemic prevention.

We can also build upon our record of international leadership. Australia is a member
of the International Experts Group of Biosafety and Biosecurity Regulators. Australia
also advocates for chemical and biological weapons security and non-proliferation,
including through the formation of the Australia Group8. We could help keep
Australians safe by:
    • Acting on the recommendation of Global Health Security Index’s 2021 report9
        by regularly reporting to the World Organisation for Animal Health on
        incidences of human cases of zoonotic disease.
    • Recommending that the Foreign Minister includes in trade agreements
        relating to animals and animal products an obligation that requires the other
        trading partner to meet or exceed Australian standards and practices for
        preventing zoonoses. Through this mechanism, Australia could adopt best
        practices domestically and influence international practices.

Zoonoses have been the leading cause of pandemics, and the threat they pose is on
the rise. Despite this, Gopal et al. estimate that dangerous pathogens leaking from
labs have likely surpassed zoonoses as the key risk10. Even more worryingly, they
argue that maliciously engineered pandemics could become the overriding risk
unless action is taken.

Engineered pandemics have become a critical public health concern due to rapid
progress in biotechnology and the risk of “dual-use” of Al products (i.e. when Al
intended to perform useful tasks is utilised for malicious purposes). Specifically, Al is
likely to enhance biotechnology and the ability of terrorists to harm Australians11.

The US is taking dual-use risks seriously. On 25 July 2023, the US Senate Judiciary
Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law took evidence about the potential
risks of Al fromB                        , '     ' r         ‘             '




6 A visual history of pandemics
7 Indo-Pacific Centre for Health Security
8 The Australia Group
9 Advancing Collective Action and Accountability Amid Global Crisis
10 Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics
11 Al suggested 40,000 new possible chemical weapons in just six hours - The Verge; Dual use of
artificial-intelligence-powered drug discovery | Nature Machine Intelligence
                                                | Committee Chair, Senator
              began the hearing by highlighting these “dual-use” risks:

       The future is not science fiction or fantasy — it’s not even the future, it’s here
       and now. And a number of you [Amodei, Bengio and Russell] have put the
       timeline at 2 years before we see some of the most severe biological dangers.
       It may be shorter because the pace of development is not only stunningly fast,
       it is also accelerating at a stunning pace.




In response to these hearings, on 30 October 2023, President Biden made an
executive order that does two main things12  13. First, it put a timeline on US agencies to
develop a framework to ensure the proper screening of synthetic DNA. With or
without the additional risks of Al, synthetic DNA is likely the essential input that any
malicious or negligent actor would need to engineer a pandemic. Second, it put a
range of requirements on Al labs designed to ensure future Al models don’t have
these “dual-use risks” that could contribute to a future pandemic.

The terms of reference of this inquiry are fundamentally about doing better in the
future. Given how terrible future pandemics could be - the best thing the Inquiry
could do for the future is to prioritise pandemic prevention, including the novel ways
pandemics could occur in the future. While that will require uncomfortable thinking
about unexpected topics and emerging technologies, these are the issues that could
have the biggest impact towards securing a healthier future.


Sincerely,
Scott Smith




12 Recent Senate Hearing Discussing Al X-Risk | Medium
13 Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial
Intelligence
