Australia's descent into tyranny & discrimination- a personal
response.        Private & confidential-subject to NDA
As the terms of reference for this welcome inquiry conveniently exclude the state
governments, I submit my personal story of just some of the terror and discrimination I
experienced. A former lifelong, staunch Labor supporter, voter and campaigner has become
a citizen who is now terrified of our government and looking at viable options to not only
vote against my former beloved Labor party, but also to consider emigration. That is the
level of terror those of us who experienced extreme discrimination, now feel.


As you only hear directly from me every four years, I am imploring you to consider what I
have written with empathy. So, even if you don't care about one individual you may like to
consider that the loss of trust in political leaders and parties and in democratic institutions
continues and is widespread. You can blame the former Federal government or state
governments but know that our new fear of our increasingly totalitarian government, does
not distinguish between such arbitrary demarcations.

Two decades ago, my ^Hreceived a                                     triple dose vaccine
and our life changed forever. The reaction was immediate and so severe that she was
hospitalised multiple times with life-threatening^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^| and
                             Formerly a perfectly healthy baby, after the vaccination, she now
ha                            severe that simply beating ai^g^r^he same room will trigger
an                            Such was the severity of the^^^^H she could not sleep and
scratched all night until he bled; I had to change the bloody sheets during the night for the
first seven years.

We went to dozens of doctors trying to find a cure or alleviate the distress, to no avail
beyondo mask symptoms. One doctor even dared say, "vaccines are 95% safe".
Even if that was true, how would you, reader, feel if your child was in the 5% where it was
not safe.

AHPRA & THE COERCION AND TERRORISATION OF DOCTORS
When I approached our doctor for a Covid vaccine exemption due to the extreme allergic
reactions he had previously suffered, the doctor agreed that with his level of allergies, it
would not be ideal for him to have it but refused an exemption. We have since learned that
AHPRA (Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency) would threaten or possibly worse,
suspend or terminate medical licences for any exemptions. Why were doctors too terrified
to perform their Hippocratic oath - First Do No Harm and to provide Informed consent.
According to the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in health care, 'informed
consent is a legal, ethical and professional requirement on the part of all treating health
professionals', https://www.safetyandquality.gov.au/our-work/partnering-consumers/informed-consent

When did individualised, medicine become a state crime? Recently it has been revealed that
many doctors were terrified by this AHPRA overreach. Why were doctors not allowed to be
doctors? Why was bodily autonomy ignored as a human right despite the vaccines being
proven not to stop transmission?




                                                                                                  1
The Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights article 6 states, "Any preventive,
diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be carried out with the prior, free
and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate information".
https://en.unesco.org/about-us/legal-affairs/universal-declaration-bioethics-and-human-rights


While the federal government alleged the vaccinations were voluntary, it also exhorted
and/or coerced the states and workplaces to enforce vaccine mandates. The Human Rights
commission states, "there are exemptions available for those who have a medical reason for
not receiving the Covid-19 vaccine". While this may be stated, falsely, on the Government
Human Rights website, it was unequivocally, not true in practice for doctors.
https://humanrights.gov.au/about/covidl9-and-human-rights/covid-19-vaccinations-and-federal-
discrimination-law


DISCRIMINATION IN THE WORKPLACE AT A GOVERNMENT INSTITUTION
While I feared the death or severe injury of nr     I waited for a vaccine with more safety
signals for us both. In the meantime, my workplace's team of lawyers hounded and
threatened me for months. Despite still working from home, I was actually told that I was
banned from the building and my unvaccinated presence was considered the highest risk to
the entire organisation.

I was forced to hire an industrial lawyer and fight for the right to retain my job, not for any
misconduct but for the right to my bodily autonomy. Regardless, the Government-funded
team of lawyers harassed me for months and I was forced to resign which is corporate
double speak for being fired. How does this not breach anti-discrimination laws? My
mental health declined rapidly as I was relentlessly pursued as though I was a criminal. I
became depressed and suicidal. I have not worked in 18 months. Unemployment is a
known major risk factor for negative health outcomes resulting in additional mental health
care costs. Despite being a former productive executive, I am no longer able to contribute t
the economy. Is this an outcome that the Government accepts? This is the result of the
government's extremely heavy-handed response regarding mandates.

While this inquiry may deflect and say the State governments did all this, the Federal
government also failed to protect me from workplace discrimination by voting down BOTH
the Covid 19 Vaccination Status Prevention of Discrimination Bill 2022 and the Fair work
Amendment Prohibiting Covid Vaccine Discrimination Bill 2023. Was this an expediency to
exonerate and distance from State mandates? My Federal governments' failure to protect
me from workplace discrimination in the form of vaccine mandates resulted in undue stress,
loss of income, suicidal ideation, degraded mental health and economic distress. As
mandates are still in place in many workplaces, this Federally endorsed discriminatory failure
is ongoing.

Encouraged by government officials, I will not forget daily and relentless threatening
headlines such as this," Let them die. Unvaccinated patients do not deserve ICU beds "were
words that appeared on the front page of a paper. I will never forget leaders like the former
Labor premier, Bob Carr who demanded that "the unvaccinated should be denied medical
care". The media and culture followed the Prime Ministers encouragement with government
endorsed and encouraged tyranny. I will not forget being shunned, shamed and treated like
a criminal at the behest of our so-called leaders. All levels of all the governments employed


                                                                                                  2
these authoritarian strategies: censorship, repression, fear, threats and public shaming.
Censorship and repression remain unacceptable under any circumstances: they are not only
unscientific, but also undemocratic. Has the liberal left become illiberal? To this day, many
Labor leaders refuse to establish a distinction between conspiracy theorists and university
professors of medicine from Harvard, Stanford, and Oxford, such as the authors of the
censored Great Barrington Declaration who advocated for focused protection.

Australia is only starting to face the devastation that they have advocated for and are
complicit in - not only in socio-economic terms due to the lockdowns and the ensuing
inflation, but also in terms of destruction of public trust in official institutions due to the
vaccine mandates, and due also to their adamant refusal to acknowledge the adverse effects
of the vaccine. Labor now seems, just like or worse than the Right, paralysed by a punitive
tribal orthodoxy and by a massive decline in compassion and moral courage. As the
book                    the opioid crisis in the US found,[||||||||l|l^^


               H    For those who experienced discrimination, this Labor Governments'
increasing authoritarianism is signalling the erosion of democracy and could be heralding
the upcoming victory of the populist and extreme Right as seen in many Western countries.

CENSORSHIP & LABOR ON TOTALITARIANISM WATCH
There is a new kind of totalitarianism that is emerging now, a totalitarianism which is not so
much a communist or fascist totalitarianism, but a technocratic totalitarianism eagerly
supported and enabled by my government with its proposed Misinformation Bill. This Bill
risks the very freedoms it aims to protect. As Jacinda Ardern absurdly claimed about her
gove rn m e
concluded, ■

Such interference with the right to free speech suppresses valid discussion about matters of
urgent public interest and undermines the foundational principles of representative
democracy. Open discourse is the central pillar of a free society. While you are in
Government you may think 'misinformation' is whatever disagrees with you but when you
are out of power, you may find yourself censored by this anti-Democratic Bill, for whatever
the government of the day arbitrarily considers is misinformation. Be careful what you wish
for. https://westminsterdeclaration.org

We need a new political culture, a culture that re-appreciates the value of Truth Telling. We
need a new political discourse that leaves discrimination and the shallow, hollow, rhetoric
and propaganda behind and leads with compassion; we need politicians to become true
leaders again. We need leaders who will not persecute or enable others to persecute their
own citizens, but to uphold Democratic principles.

Labor, you still have a chance to redeem yourselves by having a real Royal Commission not
an inquiry with so many exclusions in the terms of reference that may, for those of us who
were discriminated against, be perceived as a charade. Please, do better.

Australians experienced a massive betrayal of the social contract, executed by our own
Governments. My life has been destroyed and I want an apology via a Royal Commission.



                                                                                                 3
