                                                 C Miller MAIES
                          Australian Government COVID Inquiry Submission

I am Christine (Chris) Miller, the current National President, Australasian Institute of Emergency Services (AIES). Our
nearly 400 members represent all facets of emergency management in Australia, New Zealand and beyond including
a recent member joining from Hong Kong. Over the AIES's 47-year history, our membership has been drawn from State
Emergency Services, Police, Fire (volunteers and paid), Ambulance (also paid and volunteers like St John Ambulance in
Australia), Aviation Fire and Rescue, Marine Rescue and so on. The AIES has partnership agreements with the
International Association of Emergency Managers (IAEM), Oceania Division; Australasian Women in Emergencies
(AWE); and other related services.

Given the short timeline for submissions, I have been unable to consult my members, so this is my personal submission.

My personal experience includes:
• volunteer mountain rescue
• nearly 17 years Queensland Police service as a sworn officer including responding to the 1974 Brisbane Floods as a
  Police Cadet
• counter terrorism exercises as a participant and planner for the Queensland Police, ACT, and the Commonwealth
  Attorney-General's Department.
• disaster planning and recovery work for the Australian Government Department of Social Services following the
  Bali bombings, London bombings, Indian Ocean Tsunami, Eyre Peninsula Fire and more.
• planning for the next pandemic by contributing to Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza
  (AHMPPI) and National Action Plan for Human Influenza Pandemic (NAPHIP) as well as participating in two national
  exercises, Cumpston (2006) and SUSTAIN08. Those of us, who worked on various iterations of the AHMPPI, noticed
  it was lightly edited and released as the Australian Health Sector Emergency Response Plan for Novel Coronavirus
  (COVID-19) on 18 February 2020.




Now to my responses to some of the items this Inquiry is reviewing:

Governance, future planning, and simulation exercises
• Infrequent National Public Health simulation exercises such as Cumpston 2006 and SUSTAIN08 resulted in Australian
  Governments and their partners being less prepared and ready for the recent COVID-19 pandemic. A regular cycle
  of national field simulation exercises needs to be funded and re-established to ensure Australia is in a better state
  of preparedness and readiness than we were in November 2019.
• Plans, such as AHMPPI and NAPHIP, or their successors, need to be subjected to biannual reviews - followed by at
  least tabletop simulation exercises to challenge assumptions, test future preparedness and increase familiarity with
  these plans for those, who may be using them in future pandemics.

My recommendation matches the Senate Committee COVID Report delivered in April 2022 with Recommendation 3
reading: 1.32 The committee recommends that the Australian Government report to the Parliament at least once every
two years, commencing in 2024, on the state of Australian pandemic preparedness, including all relevant planning,
policy, and simulation activities undertaken by government agencies during the reporting period.1




1 Source: https://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Committees/Senate/COVID-
19/COVID19/Report/section?id=committees%2Freportsen%2F024920%2F79432#:~:text=The%20committee%20recommends%2
0that%20the%20Australian%20Government%20report%20to%20the,agencies%20during%20the%20reporting%20period.
Delivery of COVID vaccinations in remote locations
During the COVID pandemic, I worked with low- and middle-income countries' vaccine distributors in Indonesia, India,
and the Middle East (although not for the World Bank) to quickly deliver COVID vaccines with low-cost solutions to
turn vaccines into vaccinations as well as ensuring ultra-cold chain (UCC) systems (as low as -90°C) required for mRNA
vaccines were reliably maintained.

I referred my Indonesian colleagues, with more than 4,000 islands to supply with COVID vaccinations, to the coastal
shipping and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), Remotely Piloted Aerial Systems (RPAS), commonly referred to as
"drones". During this pilot, measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccines were delivered by drones throughout
Vanuatu. The WHO, UNICEF and the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade's innovationXchange
contracted an Australian company Swoop Aero to manage the drone vaccine deliveries to remote communities for this
island nation.23

Given this successful MMR vaccination pilot in Vanuatu in 2018, I was disappointed to learn that Australian
Governments funded expensive helicopter delivery of COVID vaccines to remote communities in the Torres Strait and
elsewhere in the top end of Australia, when using drones to distribute COVID vaccines would have generated significant
savings for taxpayers. Perhaps future vaccination programs, including 6 monthly COVID boosters, could be delivered
through a drone program.

Lessons identified, but not learned.
I noticed in the privacy notice for those lodging online submissions under the Privacy heading: "The goal of the inquiry
is to identify lessons learned to improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics." The Australian and other
governments identified lessons from this pilot but did not apply these lessons during the COVID pandemic.

NATO, British Army, Australian Army, and many Australian emergency managers use OILL methodology to capture
learnings following incidents, near misses and simulation exercises. OILL stands for observations, insights, lessons
identified, and lessons learned. OILL methodology is part of a Lessons Management Framework (LMF). Without an
LMF, the Inquiry report will join many reports 'growing dust on bookshelves'. To move beyond that fate, this inquiry
needs to ensure necessary governance and monitoring work follows up and ensures implementation of the Inquiry's
recommendations and action items; noting that lessons are not learned until changes are made. The leading Australian
practitioner in OILL and LMF                          If^^|has not already provided a submission or given evidence
before this Inquiry, you might like to consider inviting him to do so as well as familiarising yourselves with the Australian
Institute for Disaster Resilience (AIDR)4. These good practices continue to develop in the Australian military and
emergency management thanks to AIDR's annual lessons management forums.

Quarantine facilities
For managing quarantine facilities during future pandemic: Are governments best placed to build expensive permanent
facilities like Pinkenba, Brisbane; Mickleham, north of Melbourne; and Bullsbrook, Western Australia?5 Or would taking
up offers such as the Wagner Corporation sooner have presented better value for money solutions for Australian
taxpayers? "As|                  Chairman of the Toowoomba-based             Corporation, says 'While hotel quarantine
had worked for returning overseas travellers to date, a better option was needed long-term.'"6 Of course, the
Corporation is not the only Australian based company with experience in building "5 star" mining camps quickly.
Eventually, the Wellcamp facility was built in Toowoomba with Queensland Government funding support, and only 700
unvaccinated travellers were housed there rather than in inner city hotels.




2 Sources: https://www.technet-21.org/en/communitv/discussions/vanuatu-launches-pacific-s-first-drone-trial-delivering-
lifesaving-vaccines-and-health-supplies-to-remote-communities and http://website.swoop.aero.s3-website-ap-southeast-
2.amazonaws.com/solutions/vanuatu/
3 https://www.linkedin.com/in/markcuthbert2/
4 https://knowledge.aidr.org.au/resources/lessons-management-handbook/.
5 Source: https://www.dailvmail.co.uk/news/article-11011881/Australias-2BILLION-Covid-quarantine-facilitv-white-elephants-
unlikely-used.html
6 Reported in the AFR on 5 February 2021 Source: https://www.afr.com/politics/federal/wagners-pitch-1300-bed-quarantine-
facility-in-toowoomba-20210205-p5701k
Managing international and domestic border closures

The NSW Health Influenza Pandemic Plan published T1 May 2016 referred to:
13.3 International border surveillance
The Australian Government is responsible for developing and implementing policies relating to international border
control activities. Roles and responsibilities relating to airports are outlined in the National Pandemic Influenza Airport
Border Operations Plan (FLUBORDERPLAN).7

The FLUBORDERPLAN of 2009 is also mentioned in a House of Representatives Committee Report (April 2021).
Specifically:
   The AHMPPI and NAPHIP are discussed in more detail in Chapter 2. Other Commonwealth plans in place include,
   but are not limited to, the following:
   •      National Pandemic Influenza Airport Border Operations Plan (FLUBORDERPLAN 2009) - prepared by DoHA
           [Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing]8

On 8 December 2021, The Australian National Audit Office (ANAO) published its Report numbered 12 of 2021-22 on
the Management of International Travel Restrictions during COVID-19 with these conclusions:
   9.      Management of Australia's international travel restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic has been largely
   effective.
   10.     Australia did not have a plan to implement international travel restrictions and mass guarantine in response to
   a pandemic as health experts had concluded that such measures were not effective.9

Despite repeated unsuccessful searches for the FLUBORDERPLAN of 2009 or subsequent years, many SES members
were deployed to assist with domestic and international border restrictions during COVID without access to a plan,
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), training, or simulation exercises prior to COVID to familiarize themselves with
airport locations and other potential deployment sites.

I personally worked at Brisbane International Airport during the 1988 Commonwealth Games. Prior to deployment, we
were given detailed briefings on airport operations, such peak times for flights as well as taken on orientation tours of
the inning workings of the airport to ensure our smooth deployment during the Games. I am told similar pre­
deployment briefings and tours were not provided in advance or during COVID deployments for the SES, especially at
major international hub airports like Sydney. They "had to learn on the job". This is despite plans made many years
before anticipating their deployment:

The NSW Health Influenza Pandemic Plan published 27 May 2016 reads at:
10.3 NSW Ambulance and patient transport
The State [State Health Services Functional Area Coordinator] HSFAC may reguest support from the State Emergency
Operations Controller for moving large numbers of people to alternate accommodation (e.g. relocating people from
the airport that have been exposed to the virus during a flight). NSW Ambulance personnel may be best placed to assist
with moving smaller groups of people.10

When other agencies, departments, governments, or partners, such as not for profit organizations like the Red Cross,
Salvation Army and more, are included in future health plans, which may require their rapid and extended deployment,
preparedness is the key and needs to include familiarity with the plans, locations, and regular simulation exercises to
maintain response readiness. Learning on the job does happen, from time to time in emergency management.
However, we do try to reduce such haphazard approaches, which were managed through domestic and international
border closures during the COVID pandemic. The emergency services may do less well in future pandemics as SES and
other volunteer emergency services have dwindling recruitment and an aging membership.



7 Source: hittps://wwwl,healtfonsw.gov.au/pds/Activ&PDSDocuments/PD2016 Olfepdf
8 Source:
https://www.aph.gov.au/parliamentary_business/committees/house_of_representatives_committees2urhhaa/internationalheal
thissues/report/chapterS.htm
9 Source: https://www.anao.gov.au/work/performance-audit/management-international-travel-restrictions-during-covid-19
10 Source: https://wwwl.health.nsw.gov.au/pds/ActivePDSDocuments/PD2016_016.pdf
