Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry - Petra Liverani
15 December 2023

When the following rule of critical thinking is applied to the alleged covid pandemic, we find there is no
pandemic nor was there ever one.

Rule: Confine your analysis to the most relevant and unarguable-with data in the first instance

The most relevant unarguable-with data favours the hypothesis that the covid pandemic is a complete
fabrication with a certain amount of advertising of the fact over the hypothesis of a real pandemic. I
contend that there is zero unarguable-with data that favours the hypothesis the covid pandemic was real
in any shape or form and thus that any measures were required against it.

1. Exercises: In the two years prior to the pandemic the following exercises were conducted: Pandemic
tabletop exercises, Event 201 (Oct 2019) and Clade X (2018); joint exercise by US agencies to respond to
a severe pandemic of influenza originating in China, Crimson Contagion (2019)

We were told that the co vid pandemic is an exercise: in a press conference on March 20, 2020, Mike
Pompeo says: “We’re in a live exercise here after which Donald Trump says quietly and impassively,
“You should have let us ... you should have let us know.” How does Pompeo’s statement and Trump’s
response make sense for a real pandemic? We were told on the World Economic Forum
website, Lockdown is the world’s biggest psychological experiment ■..

2. Against reality: We are shown things against reality including people lying on the ground and on
hospital floors and falling flat on their face

3. Hospital anomalies:

    •   There are very good reasons for believing that some footage at least from hospitals crying
        “pandemic” is really of drills, for example, this BBC news item, Covid frontline: harrowing
        scenes from London intensive care unit as deaths soar shot in University College Hospital,
        London.
            o   We see alleged ICU patients sitting beside their bed or with only an oxygen tube.
            o   There are no clear signs that these patients need ICU care.
            o   We’re told that they have converted wards to ICU but there is no clear evidence of this,
            o   We see staff roles scribbled on their facemasks.



Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Petra Liverani - 15 December 2023
           o   We also wouldn’t expect filming in a genuine ICU situation, especially in the midst of a
               serious pandemic.
   •        CBC apologizes for using fake patients and training facility in COVID-19 story.
   •        CBS used Italian footage for a New ¥ork story.
   •   Debbie Hicks walked the corridors of Gloucestershire Royal Hospital filming and found little sign
       of activity despite the hospital reporting it was extremely busy
   •   How do so many medical staff have time to rehearse dance routines when they’re supposedly
       under massive pandemic pressure?

4. No determination of illness other than test: The alleged covid d              ave a       ctive et of
symptoms telling it apart from cold, flu, pneumonia, or other respiratory illnesses. There is no clinical
diagnosis of the disease and if testing stopped tomorrow we'd have no clue that anyone had covid as
distinct from other respiratory illnesses. While now we are being told that suffering the alleged covid may
result in myocarditis this condition is a known side-effect of the jab

5. Test not valid: It is admitted by the authorities that there is no gold standard test for the alleged covid
and the PCR test is not a diagnostic test, stated clearly on its packet (“For use under an Emergency Use
Authorization (EUA) Only”, “Positive results are indicative of the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA;
clinical correlation with patient history and other diagnostic information is necessary to determine patient
infection status”) and yet "cases" are based purely on the result of the test, not on a clinical diagnosis.

6. Low mortality in Australia: According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, covid was the 38th
leading cause of death in 2020 but is nevertheless shown at the bottom of the Top 20 causes of death
table. According to the statistics, in 2019 flu and pneumonia caused more than four times the number of
deaths of covid and yet no enforced measures were taken and nor did we hear about the number of cases
or mortality in the media in any memorable way.



  Cause of death and ICD10 code                        2019         2020
  Influenza and pneumonia (J09-J18)                       4,124          2,287
 COVID-19 (U071, U072) (g)                             n/a                 898
 All Causes                                            169,301       161,300




Hypothetically, if we were told about a respiratory illness that didn’t have a distinctive set of symptoms,
wasn’t diagnosed clinically but determined by a non-standard test and was ranked as 38th leading cause
of death our expectations would not be that our country would enforce unprecedented measures that
turned our lives upside down.

Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Petra Liverani - 15 December 2023
7. Other health conditions present at time of death: According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, it
was reported in February 2022 that more than 90 per cent of those who died from COVID-19 had other
health conditions. Most of the deaths - 91.4 per cent - had other health conditions listed on the victim’s
death certificate. On average, deaths due to COVID-19 had 2.7 other diseases and conditions certified
alongside the virus.

8. Alternative explanation for excess mortality: While the overall excess mortality spike in Europe in
April 2020 might lead us to suspect the presence of a novel illness, when we break the figures down by
country (set the end date marker to 2020-25) we see there is no excess spike (that is the spike is no greater
at that time of year compared to previous years) in Portugal and Germany, two countries that didn’t
implement either of the aggressive drug trials, the Oxford Recovery and the WHO Solidarity trial. Very
little publicity of the problems with these trials was covered by the media but France-Soir published this
article, Oxford, Recovery et Solidarity: Overdosage in two clinical trials with acts considered criminal?

Other measures that can be inferred increased mortality include:

   •       dangerous discharge of sick elderly people from hospital to care homes
   •       end of life protocols established in care homes for those not near end of life
   •       use of excessive narcotics and aggressive antiviral trials
   •       ventilator-acquired pneumonia

Of course, isolation kills people too.

9. Isolation of virus disputed:          si     show that the alleged SARS-CoV-2 has never been
isolated in the true sense of the word and that the term “isolated” has been used fraudulently by
scientists A challenge has been submitted to virologists by a group of 20 medical doctors, other health
professionals and scientists to prove the existence of the alleged SARS-CoV-2 following steps that adhere
to the scientific method. So far no lab has responded to the challenge.

10. No enforcement of mask hygiene: There is great debate about the effectiveness of masks in the first
place but regardless, if we were to consider masks played any positive role, dirty masks would surely not
be considered effective against infection by anyone. The rules, however, only require a mask to be worn
with no monitoring of level of hygiene and many people wear masks purely for compliance’ sake - they
pull out masks that have been here, there and everywhere purely to comply with the rules. What we can
infer from this very obviously ineffective measure is that masks are about appearance only, nothing to do
with health.

11. Contradictory guidelines: In addition to the mask problem, guidelines in general have been
confusing and contradictory which undermines the credibility of all of them.


Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry - Petra Liverani - 15 December 2023
