On 21 February 2021, Greg Hunt, the Federal Health
Minister, speaking on the ABC's Insiders, announced of the
Covid-19 vaccination program: "The world is engaged in
the largest clinical trial, the largest global vaccination trial
ever, and we will have enormous amounts of data" He was
further asked by interviewer,                   about requiring
certain employees in certain workplaces to take the
vaccine eg. aged care, Hunt replied that, based on the
advice of medical professionals, (namely the Australian
Health Protection Principal Committee) the vaccination
would not be made mandatory and "having confidence in
what is a free, universally available, but voluntary vaccine is
the critical thing" (Interview transcript attached).

Yet, when the vaccination program was rolled out,
"voluntary vaccine" was not the critical thing. Government
services such as police, ambulance, firefighters and health
care across Australia mandated their employees to take the
jab. Large corporations like Westpac and CBA, QANTAS,
and the big supermarkets Woolworths, Coles and ALDI also
mandated their workers. People were sacked because they
wished to retain their bodily autonomy, because they had
objections to taking the jab on moral or religious grounds,
or on scientific grounds as the jabs were in a trial phase
without genotoxicity or carcinogenicity studies provided by
the manufacturers.

Why wasn't federal anti-discrimination legislation passed
to protect workers from these mandates?

I contend that employers were given free rein to
discriminate against their employees and hence, sack
them, as no brakes were applied to these organisations by
way of anti-discrimination legislation.

The COVID-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of
Discrimination) Bill 2022 was introduced into Parliament on
29 November 2022. A further Fair Work Amendment
(Prohibiting COVID-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023
was tabled on 8 February 2023. The Bills were not enacted
and some workers are still mandated out of their jobs.

Sacked workers who made informed choices to protect
themselves and their families were discriminated against
and are now due compensation. Such a bill should be
brought before Federal Parliament.
