            bom 10 weeks premature in August 2019. By the time the first lockdown came he was
barely 7 months old.
                                                - these conditions were considered normal for a
prem baby. He was under two teams and two hospitals - the Neonatal Unit and the local Children’s
Hospital.

^^^^|was last saw face-to-face before the first lockdown in March 2021. The Consultant
Paediatrician said that she thought


After this appointments were converted to telephone due to covid at both hospitals.

        started to have

By September,




I believe          diagnosis was missed due face-to-face appointments were converted to telephone
appointments.

Between September 2020 and July
                                       There were no toys in hospital. There were no play-workers.
No visitors were allowed to help with a sick baby or give me a break.

Sometimes I ate the baby scraps whilst I waited for someone to bring me food or until the baby was
fast asleep at night and then I would run to the machine which sold microwave meals.

The child was constantly sick in between the admissions. There were no face-to-face services to
help us for about 2 years. We had a bit of telephone support from charities.

It never felt enough.

We were traumatised and alone. I am not sure we will get over what we have experienced.

                                                                |I have so much trauma.

         has been so sick for so long he has missed out on normal life. His               is most
likely due to

The PCR testing every time we went to hospital was awful. One time               and I were stabbed
so far up the nose I refused after that. We had had 8 tests. Every test he had was negative.
always had^^^Hbut it was never Covid. We were in and out of hospital. We should have been
positive if anyone. Go figure!

I refused testing on the last operation at the                  in July 2022.1 was not allowed to
carry           to surgery. He was so traumatised he wa

I will never forget the memory of          being carried by a stranger to surgery as I would not
agree to a Covid test. This was July 2022! I had taken^^^^and held him whilst he was given
gas 4 times. This time I was denied my opportunity to do this due to the protocols in place.
I learned that                             did not subject babies under two years to the PCR test
swabbing the nose - they swabbed the throat instead.

Compassion and reason left with Covid in                hospitals.

The last couple of years have been hard on our immune systems - it seems to me that viruses have
hit us both very hard due to everyone being locked away abnormally - in January 23

thought I would wake up to a corpse. I had to shield him completely as we could not risk a blocked
nose.

He missed out on more nursery. I was isolated and alone (again).

I do not think lockdowns are in any way right. They caused us massive harm and suffering.

The other thing I want to tell you about is ^^^^^Know deceased).

^^|asked me when she was alive, “Do you think you can feel


I thought this was a very strange thing to ask. (This was after^^^ had been diagnosed with^^|


I asked about when this happened.

She replied, “About three weeks after I had the first Pfizer Covid Vaccine (Feb 2021). I was lying in
bed and I had a searing pain right where my^^^^was to be diagnosed. It nearly made me fall
from bed”.

           died in January 2023 following                                                (first was
last Christmas).
                         |The Trust opened a Serious Incident Investigation as she was not expected
to die.

               Iwas not done for some reason.

            had 2 covid vaccines.




            had Covid apparently at the time of surgery. What is the point of the vaccines? I have
heard the heart can be affected. There are so many unanswered questions for me about this
emergency medicine. I think time will bring answers and the truth.
