               My Submission to the convid-19 Response Inquiry



The lockdowns and mandates had several impacts on myself and many family
members, relatives, and friends.

I did not get to visit^^^^^Jduring 2020 before she died early in 2021.

I missed the funeral of^^^^^who was close to the family. Although the
funeral was on zoom the technology was not always good.

I have witnessed a friend heartbroken over the death of




I have grieved the death of a friend who I knew                       After she
received the booster injection, she


I have^^^^Hin an aged care home. On at least one day, she had to continue
to have RAT test several times the same day until the result was positive. The
first few times gave a negative result and then the last time gave a positive
result and then she was isolated. Also, on that day she had no symptoms.
That became a good example of there being lies and deception and quotas, i.e.
certain numbers to be met.

The directives (mandates) were anti-health, all very unhelpful for one's
immune system.

It became obvious that the whole thing was a complexity of lies and deception,
especially when the rollout of the injections / "vaccines" began without being
tested in Australia and then the mandates of the vaccines. Because of the
vaccine rollout, and the restrictions on what the doctors were allowed to say to
the patients, my trust has been lost in the GP, who I had been seeing for nearly
7 years.

I know some people who could not adapt to consultations online.

Also, I have some relatives who needed support because their anxiety
worsened because of the mask requirements and developed severe anxiety
over being told off and spoken to harshly by various staff in the shopping
centers. I have spent time listening to them to give them support. This was
all related to one of the lies regarding masks "preventing transmission." I have
a scientific background and read some accurate information saying they did not
prevent infection and caused health problems. They did so to me.
