      Level 1/114 William Street   T 61 3 9642 4899   office@speechpathologyaustralia.org.au
      Melbourne Victoria 3000      F 61 3 9642 4922   www.speechpathologyaustralia.org.au




                                                                                               Speech
                                                                                               Pathology
Ms Robyn Kruk AO
Chair Covid-19 Inquiry Response Panel
                                                                                               Australia
Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet
Sent via: https://www.pmc.gov.au/covid-19-response-inquiry/consultation

14 December 2023


Dear Ms Kruk

Speech Pathology Australia thanks the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel for the opportunity to
make a submission.

Speech Pathology Australia is the national peak body for speech pathologists in Australia,
representing more than 14,000 members. Speech pathologists are university trained allied health
professionals with expertise in the diagnosis, assessment, and treatment of communication and
swallowing difficulties.

We provide recommendations in the following areas:

1.        Key health response measures

2.        Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government and responsibilities of state
          and territory governments

3.        Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations

4.        Health supports for people impacted by Covid-19.



Key Health response measures

     Recommendation
     Speech Pathology Australia recommends that all allied health professions, including self-regulated
     health professions such as speech pathology are recognised within future response measures.

Speech pathology is a self-regulated health profession, and member of the National Alliance of Self­
Regulating Health Professions (NASRHP). Within many Covid-19 key health response measures,
guidance was provided regarding advice and regulationfor health professionals such as doctors and
nurses, or health professionals working within acute or hospital settings. Guidance for allied health
professionals in other settings was routinely lacking, requiring peak bodies or allied health officers to
have to request this information and resulting in delays to critical advice regarding provision of allied
health services. This was exacerbated by guidance frequently referring to registered health
professionals under the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra), excluding a large
portion of the allied health workforce.

As self-regulated allied health professionals who work across a range of sectors and settings, it was
often unclear as to which health directive applied to speech pathologists. Ahpra registered
professions such as physiotherapy or occupational therapy were frequently used as the example
professions within allied health specific advice, omitting speech pathologists. Speech Pathology
Australia staff had to continuously seek additional clarification from relevant policy makers regarding
guidance and rules for speech pathologists returning to work or providing speech pathology services.
This led to considerable delays in the provision of the required advice and in some cases undue
suspension of speech pathology services.




                                                                                                       1
Speech pathologists working in community settings such as aged care facilities, accommodation
facilities for people with disability, or private practice (representing more than half of all Speech
Pathology Australia members) were the most severely impacted. The confusion as to which health
services were permitted to continue, under which circumstances and resultant impacton service
delivery caused immense emotional and financial stressforour membership and negatively impacted
upon users of speech pathology services.

Similarly, obtaining information about the requirements for (and access to) personal protective
equipment (PPE) was challenging for the speech pathology profession, particularly those members
working within private practice settings. Speech Pathology Australia received a high volume of
member contacts to receive guidance regarding their PPE requirements and/or raise concerns
regarding accessibility and cost of PPE. This was exacerbated due to limited linkage pathways with
Primary Health Networks and exclusion of speech pathologists from PPE arrangements within
community-based settings such as aged care facilities.

Health response measures providing additional allied health sessions after lockdowns in residential
aged care under Medicare funding only focused upon physical mobility (e.g. physiotherapy and
occupational therapy) and excluded speech pathology. This ignored the very large number of people
with othersequelae of Co vid-19, most notably the large number of people with swallowing difficulties.
Future policy responses must be in place to proactively recognise all components of the health
workforce and ensure equitable measures are in place for effective information and resource
distribution.

Governance

 Recommendation
 Speech Pathology Australia recommends that timely national guidance from the commonwealth
 government is provided regarding the health response, regulation of health services.

Despite calls from many experts to consider overseas guidance recognising the role of airborne
transmission and therefore the necessary precautions to mitigate against it, there was delayed
recognition of airborne transmission of Covid 19 by the Australian Health Protection Principal
Committee (AHPPC). This created confusion and further delayed access to consistent messaging of
critical information to protect the public and health workers such as speech pathologists. Limited
evidence was provided to the public and health sector regarding updated advice on the type and
levels of PPE needed due to this form of transmission.
Based upon emerging overseas guidelines and experiences of speech pathologists internationally,
Speech Pathology Australia developed profession specific guidance including precautions for airborne
transmission far earlier than the Australian guidelines changed to recognise this emerging evidence.
Governance mechanisms to oversee and monitorfuture committees in the case of similar scenarios
should consider mechanisms to appropriately respond to advancements in scientific understanding.
Additionally, national guidance regarding regulation of health professionals and delivery of health
services would have assisted speech pathologists, particularly those working across border
communities or via telehealth. The extensive differences across states and frequent changing of rules
and advice resulted in reports of significant stress and information fatigue for the sector, and
interruptions to service provision.
Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations

 Recommendation
 Speech Pathology Australia recommends that communication of future response measures to the
 public is timely, effective and communication accessible.




                                                                                                    2
There has been significant discussion regarding the accessibility of information and provision of
supports for people with disability in response to Covid-191. Speech Pathology Australia highlights the
issue of the lack of accessible information provided to the public, including people with communication
disability and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities.

As per Article 21 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights or Persons with Disabilities2 people
with disability have the right to access this critical health information, particularly when it affects their
safety, wellbeing and ability to receive services. A national communication policy ensuring minimum
accessibility standards for health messaging, incorporating communication accessibility is required to
ensure that this right is upheld.

Health supports for people impacted by Covid-19

  Recommendation
 Speech Pathology Australia recommends that speech pathologists are recognised as key
 members of rehabilitation teams for people with Covid-19 or Long Covid.

The rehabilitation needs as a result of contracting Covid-19 and Long Covid have not been
systematically addressed in Australia. There are insufficient clinics and resources to address
community need in this area, and a lack of a defined clinical pathway to help inform medical
practitioners and the public.

There is clear evidence that speech pathology services are a core need within Covid-19 rehabilitation3
but to date they have not been adequately included in a rehabilitation pathway, leading to ongoing
burden of disease for individuals living with residual impacts on communication and swallowing. This
has impacts on workforce and social participation, mental and physical health and wellbeing. Speech
Pathology Australia calls for speech pathologists to be recognised as key members of rehabilitation
teams and for these critical services to be included within the rehabilitation pathway forCovid-19 and
Long Co vid.



Speech Pathology Australia is keen to engage with the Co vid-19 Response Inquiry Panel to improve
health outcomes for people with Covid-19 or Long Covid. Please contact Mr John Foley General
Manager Policy and Advocacy, on 03 9642 4899 or by emailing
                                      ■if Speech Pathology Australia can assist in any other way or
provide additional information.

Yours sincerely




Kathryn McKinley
National President



1 Statement of ongoing concern - The impact of and responses to the Omicron wave of the COVID-19 pandemic
for people with disability | Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse. Neglect and Exploitation of People with
Disability
2 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities | OHCHR
3Chadd,K., Moyse, K., Enderby.P. (2021) Impact of COVID-19 on thespeech and language therapy profession
and their patients. Frontiers in neurology, 12, 629190; Dawson, C., Clunie, G., Evison, F„ Duncan, S., Whitney,
J., Houchen-Wolloff, L., Bolton, C. E., Leavy, O. C., Richardson, M., Omer, E., McAuley, H., Shikotra, A.,
Singapuri, A., Sereno, M., Saunders, R. M., Harris, V. C„ Greening, N. J., Nolan, C. M., Wootton, D. G., Daynes,
E., ... Wallace, S. (2023). Prevalence of swallow, communication, voice and cognitive compromise following
hospitalisation for COVID-19: the PHOSP-COVID analysis. BMJ open respiratory research, 10(1), e001647.
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjresp-2023-001647; Rodrigues, M., Costa, A. J., Santos, R., Diogo, P., Gongalves, E.,
Barroso, D., Lima, A. (2023). Inpatient rehabilitation can improve functional outcomes of post-intensive care unit
COVID-19 patients—a prospective study. Disability and Rehabilitation, 45, 2, 266-276.



                                                                                                                3
