I hold a Bachelor of Social Work and I worked                                       prior to
the Mandate being put in place for the COVID-19 Vaccination. I worked as a Senior Social
Worker in a Mental Health Service until the Mandate led to my prolonged Suspension for
many months, and ultimately the Termination of my employment (just prior to the Mandate
requirements being lifted).

As a direct result of the Mandate and my subsequent Suspension and enforced Termination
of employment, I have been unable to continue to undertake my usual work in Health. In
addition, I and my family                                      have suffered massive financial
loss, loss of financial security, plus emotional and personal harm.

Following my Suspension, I had to seek alternative employment (initial
              in order to pay my bills and meet our very basic living expenses. Due to the
casual nature of the work, there was no job security and periods of low or no employment.

Adding to my financial and emotional stress has been not having paid sick leave when
unwell, and not having carer's leave when^^^^^^|are unwell. I lost my long held
income protection policy due to my inability to cover the payments. My superannuation has
also been detrimentally affected by my loss of income. Due to the loss of adequate income
for an extended period, my family and I continue to experience ongoing financial stress.

Personal and emotional harm has included prolonged high stress levels, the loss of my
valued role, my profession, my reputation, and the loss of my social and professional
connections in the work place, all of which I had worked many years to attain. These factors
have negatively impacted my health and wellbeing, that of my family, and have affected my
capacity to serve the community in my long-held role.

It is difficult to quantify in words the emotional suffering and financial damage that has
been caused by the loss of my valued employment and the process by which this occurred,
all as a direct result of the Mandate. My life and that of my family,^^^^^^^^^^
                     has been devastated by the ongoing flow on effects in every detail of
our lives.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

My recommendations about how the Commonwealth responds to future pandemics.

•   Genuine and transparent consultation around risk assessment of any medical procedure
    needs to be undertaken.
•   No coercion ought to be used to enforce people to undergo a medical procedure against
    their will. Please also refer to the attached booklet, 'Too Many Dead'.
•   There should not be the arbitrary scrapping of previously agreed national protocols of
    medical practice for meeting pandemic conditions - as what occurred at the beginning
    of the COVID time, in favour of a single approach, viz. mass vaccination.
