My name is             I have been an RN               and worked most of my
career in Emergency Departments                         I have a Post Graduate
Dinloma in Emersencv. I also studied a                              doin art of a
                             here I gained a certificate in
        This was the minimum requirement I needed to work
                       dream of mine since early in my career has been to work for
them. I did a lot of volunteering overseas and some remote work in Indigenous
communities. Part of the University degree took me to Bangladesh. Here we
visited all the main hospitals. I witnessed people dying from possibly
preventable conditions like tetanus and TB. Sometimes these conditions were
exacerbated by severe malnutrition. Many people there live off small portion of
rice day.

 I have also witnessed a few cases of children that were unwell from conditions
that possibly may have been prevented if vaccinated. However, on the flip side I
know of a number of medical staff that have become unwell with Gillian Barre
syndrome post flu vaccine. I also know that while working at^^Hin emergency,
the flu vaccine was suspended for a period of time due to it causing deaths in
children. LINK (https://www.abc.net.au/news/2010-09-10/flu-vaccine-cant-be-
ruled-out-in-toddlers-death/2256142 )

I write this to explain that as a nurse I understand both pros and cons of the
vaccine. For the most part the benefits outweighed the risks. However, due to the
facts that I knew about the flu vaccine and my belief that I was young and healthy

In my entire career I never contracted the flu, until Covid.

I have worked for H Health since ^^Hand at^^|emergency department since
^^Hl loved my job, minus the nign^nifts (these were challenging since having
children), but saw myself there for most of my career till retirement. I loved the
adult, paediatric mix, I really enjoyed the staff I worked with, I loved using my
critical thinking skills and assisting others to feel comfortable by helping ease
their symptoms.

During the whole covid outbreak I never looked after one covid patient. We
rarely had a patient in the hospital with it. Prior to the vaccine rollout, most
covid patients were sent to the       as our numbers in ^^^^^were still very
low. However, when the covid vaccine roll out began I started witnessing many
adverse events from the covid vaccine. I never personally witnessed any adverse
events due to a vaccine, but mild symptoms in children, like a fever, so to see so
many was very concerning to me.

I witnessed a^^^Mman who had developed a blood clot on the liver post a
Pfizer vaccine^^ia^portal hypertension as a result, with symptoms of high
blood pressure and fast heart rate. He required emergency surgery.

I looked after an elderly lady that had a troponin rise             but was also
septic                                                         post her vaccine
injection. I have never seen this mix of symptoms in all my career. She was
moved to a cardiac ward prior to a formal diagnosis.

We had many patients present with cardiac symptoms that had no obvious
diagnosis. Possibly they have a mild irritation or inflammation of the heart that is
unable to be detected with our usual methods being; blood tests, ECG and
ultrasound.

There have been some complaints of cancers post the vaccine. Again I question is
this triggered bv an inflammation reaction? One of the natients I looked after had


                                                 owever, 1 question would ner
immune system have kept                                                       We
all produce cancer cells in our bodies, but usually our immune system fights it
off.

I looked after a woman that presented with thrombocytopenia and had a platelet
count of HShe explained that she had developed severe leg pain after her first
AZ vaccine. She went to her GP who ran a blood test and said everything was
okay. But when I looked at all her previous platelet counts it had dropped
dramatically from well ovei^^^^^^^H is on the lower side of normal, but if
the doctor had looked at the trend, a concern may have been highlighted. Luckily
she sought out a second opinion and saw a GP that listened to her concerns. He
repeated the blood test. They called her the same day as the test and said go to
hospital straight away. On arrival we always repeat blood tests. The pathology
lab called in a panic wanting to talk to the patients nurse. I explained we knew
about the platelet count and she asked for more details and I explained it may be
from the vaccine. She said there were 2 other similar cases being investigated in
the hospital. Platelets are responsible for clotting blood when we get a cut etc.
She already has bleeding under her skin (petechiae rash) and then bleeding in
the brain would be a following progression. If this patient did not follow her gut
instinct, she likely would have had a lot more serious consequences or died at
home. Thrombocytopenia is well-documented side effect of these vaccines.

                                             died from a seizure post his vaccine.
He decided to stay home fron^ork because he was not feeling well post getting
his vaccine the day prior.         was concerned and decided to check on him
during her break from work. She found him having a huge seizure. The
ambulance crew stated he likely would have died if she had not checked on him.
He ended up in hospital for over a month, as he had constant^^^^^^^^
^^^^HAfter a month of tests they decided it was a possible vaccine adverse
event. He has had ongoing health issues and unable to return to work because
his work place is mandated and even though he nearly died an exemption was
not acceptable.

Another woman in                 states she developed chest pain, then leg and
arm pain and weakness. She could not use one of her arms for 3 months. She was
unable to work as ^^^^^^Mand now can only work one day a week. As a
mature adult she had to move back into her parent’s home, as was unable to earn
enough to live independently.

All of these events I witnessed in emergency and the stories I knew of personally
helped me decide to never get an mRNA vaccine. I began doing loads of research
and was following Israel closely, as at the time of our mandates they were over
90 percent vaccinated. They were still having large number of covid cases, so I
could tell that what main stream media was stating, that it would prevent
transmission, was all a lie and Israel were already having boosters. I remember
the Victoria Premier was threatening 6 monthly boosters. So I knew these
vaccines were not going to stop at 2 doses.

So my decisions were based on a number of reasons;
- I was not in the high risk group
- I have no co-morbidities
- 1000’s of cases of covid were occurring in Melbourne and Sydney at the time
and not everyone was dropping dead, so being in the low risk group I figured my
chances of surviving were high
- I am very health focused, stay fit, eat well, never had the flu before
- I did loads of research and began building my immune system up naturally
- I could see that the vaccine roll out was not going to stop at 2 vaccines
- I could see from Israel that the vaccines did not stop transmission and not
effective like they promised the world
- from all I witnessed in emergency I knew they were defiantly not as safe as they
promised either, so the risk verses benefit in my view was near zero for me

I was considering^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^vaccine, but decided after getting
covid and all I went through I would never even get his vaccine.

I got covid from^^H^^^^|who started reception in 2022. Half her class got it
within the first few months of school starting. She had a fever
hours and then was back to herself the next day. I had a bad heaaach^na achy
for a few days and then recovered fine. Once I was back doing
classes could feel it all clear, including the brain fog.

I now work for                   But I haven’t had many shifts. Until recently
there were only (private hospitals that accept unvaccinated nurses and there is
a large number of us working for the agency so shifts are few.

I would like these mandates dropped so our children and anyone else in the
future does not need to take these risks of the vaccine just to follow their dream
career in health. It makes no sense that if my children had covid already, want to
be a nurse and had to go get 3 vaccines just so they could do nursing. Young
people are the highest at risk of myocarditis. What are we doing to our future
work force by inflicting these injections onto them. There is no logic in it. All it
does is put people off studying nursing etc. This causes further nurse shortages
and creating more dangerous conditions for staff and patients working in the
hospitals.             said at his hospital they have stopped getting the large
number of UK doctors they would normally rely on. I am certain that the
mandates have put them off, because it is not mandated in the UK. Even the few
UK doctors that have come told him they were put out by needing a third vaccine
just to work here.

I have not received much discrimination from my work. My work colleagues that
I still am in contact with just say how dangerous the conditions are, how stressed
and burnt out everyone is and how much they would absolutely love to have me
back. That they prefer me over a junior nurse fresh out of university with no
experience. My colleagues and myself question who is the biggest danger to their
patients and the hospital. An unvaccinated nurse with near 20 years experience,
or a department full of inexperienced staff. They tell me often it’s them (one
regular senior staff) overseeing all new junior staff in an area. I also must have
very good natural immunity because I haven’t got it a second time. It’s now been
a year. Over this time I have given people hugs to later find out they had covid
and looked after my                               when he got covid and have not
had it again. Where I know an ambo officer who has had it 4 times. Many friends
that are vaccinated have had it twice or 3 times.

I have been part of a class action against            with over 100 others. In the
end we have been terminated for GROSS MISCONDUCT. We are still fighting on
for unfair dismissal. The way we have been treated for just wanting a choice over
our bodily autonomy is disgraceful, criminal and discriminatory. I love Australia
but this has changed so much of my view of our government. I have lost all
respect and trust in our government and so have so many Australians. The 'Yes’
campaign was never going to succeed until the bridge of trust has been rebuilt.
Most indigenous would never trust the government. I am certain most would not
have bothered voting. I’d love to see those statistics. After all the ways our
government has treated them who would trust them. This is what our
government needs to do moving forward from here. Question themselves on
how can trust be rebuilt?

In summary, these mandates have shattered my world. I am still in disbelief that
our government, the TGA and AHPRA keep ignoring the over 1000 deaths
reported to the TGA, the over 130 000 adverse events reported. To say these
vaccines are still safe and effective goes beyond any logic I can contemplate. It
has totally shattered by belief in the health system I have work in for so long. I
just don’t understand why it can not be a choice when there are risks. We should
always have a choice what is put in our body, that doesn’t involve loosing our job
and career.

Thank you for taking the time to read my statement.
