Submission and evidence to covid-19 enquiry

I am writing to address the complete and utter failure by the Australian Government at Federal and
State level in managing the COVID-19 response in regards to vaccination and mandates. This affected
me personally in my day-to-day life, being banned from restaurants and venues, having to care for
my father who experienced a                     as a result of his third vaccination and as an employee
of



In my job at                        I was banned from the workplace, ostracised, bullied, denied job
opportunities, and deemed incompetent in my role based on my decision against mandates. I was
performance managed/bullied on baseless accusations that couldn't be substantiated by my
employer.

     -   From the 26 Nov 20211 was banned from my workplace and began discussions to
         understand the reasoning                          division of the workplace.


     -   Using the organisations Covid-19 Vaccination Policy and Procedure I submitted a series of
         questions (see attachment 1 below) and attended meeting with management and HR.


     -   Engaging in good faith all of my questions were dismissed and met with cut and paste
         responses without any honest engagement. Following up these unanswered questions was
         considered offensive by HR and dismissed.


     -   Towards the end of my employment, I was performance managed and bullied with a series
         of unsubstantiated claims that I rebuked with evidence in emails and digital correspondence.
         The organisation vetted themselves and provided zero feedback my only follow up option
         would have been an FOI.


In my personal life during this time my family life was affected due to my father receiving his third
vaccination and then being diagnosed with a                       line with^^^^^^J and

     -   I took my father to 4 ^^^^^^^^|appointments requiring day, half day and overnight
         procedures to address the issue.

         Our family life has been significantly impacted with new medication and ^^pills required
         for my father.


In short the utter failure at all levels is clear and at some stage the government will have to be held
accountable. The scope of this investigation is missing the real issue and allowing various levels of
government, leaders and public policy makers to wash their hands of the criminal actions made
during the covid pandemic period that restricted peoples medical rights and freedoms
Attachment 1

Employment law
  1.     Where does this decision leave my contract?
  2.   Does^ have the power to unilaterally change my contract without consent, zero
       negotiation or agreement to amend?
  3.   Is■ empowered to compel/coerce employees to undergo medical procedures and threaten
       termination of employment?
  4.      As delegated legislation due to the mandate which courts have deemed this action legal?
  5.   You've noted that this motion is lawful and reasonable. Which court deemed this the case?
       Under what terms do employees and citizens have no grounds to contest that?


Health and workplace responsibility
  1.      Please provide a risk assessment that has been undertaken for this policy directive.
  2.   Doe ^|hold responsibility for any adverse event incurred by employees? Providing workers
       compensation, disability insurance or any other resources should an employee be unable to
       work days, weeks, months or experience severe disability?
  3.   For employees agreeing to receive a vaccination, does^|insurance policy provide
       complete medical coverage should anyone experience any adverse event, a short-, medium-
       or long-term injury, or even death?
  4.   As vaccinations are at stage 3 clinical trials can^Joffer mid to long term safety data
       information to ensure fully informed consent by abiding by J Policy
  5.   Please provide fact sheets with the most current and up-to-date information on the
       injections, including safety and effectiveness. So I can make an informed decision
  6.   Please provide a full SWMS and MSDS documentation and OHS assessments for mandated
       vaccines as part of th | Policy
  7.   Will^Jconsider paying for a full medical assessment of employees? Including, blood work,
       physical, MRI, CT scan or any other test that maybe required to give a complete overview of
       an employee's current health status for piece of mind when making this decision?
  8.   Are you aware of the recent FAIR WORK COMMISSION ruling and statements in regards
       mandatory vaccinations in the workplace? And how they may impact your business moving
       forward? For example:
       [145] In short, there is no justifiable basis for employers to mandate COVID vaccinations to
       meet their health and safety obligations when other options are available to appropriately
       manage the risk.
       [146] Finally, it should be clearly understood that employers who mandate vaccinations will
       be liable for any adverse reactions their workers may experience, given this is a foreseeable
       outcome for some people.
       [181] Blanket rules, such as mandating vaccinations for everyone across a whole profession
       or industry regardless of the actual risk, fail the tests of proportionality, necessity and
       reasonableness. It is more than the absolute minimum necessary to combat the crisis and
       cannot be justified on health grounds. It is a lazy and fundamentally flawed approach to risk
       management and should be soundly rejected by courts when challenged.
       RE: https://www.fwc.gov.au/documents/decisionssigned/html/2021fwcfb6015.htm
