To whom it may concern,

I was employed as a Registered Nurse at the^^^^^^^HHospital in the Emergency Department.

When the mandate came for healthcare workers to be vaccinated against Covid-19 I did not believe
there was enough long term randomised double blind placebo control trials (Gold standard of
evidence) for me to give informed consent to receive a Covid-19 vaccine. During the time of the
vaccine rollout, I witnessed many staff members in tears at the thought of having to get the vaccine
as they had to choose between being able to earn an income to survive and getting the vaccine. I
was subject to many cruel remarks from colleagues regarding not getting the vaccine and was told I
would be placing my patients in dangers and how careless I was. For someone who is extremely
empathetic and who loves helping other people this was awful to be constantly told I was
endangering patients. As a newly graduated nurse I still have a large HECS debt to be paid off and
not being able to work in my capacity as a nurse has caused much financial stress. I am still dealing
with the financial stress of not being able to work as a nurse. I have been required to go back to
University and study in another field that does not have vaccine mandates. This has significantly
impacted my future as I have fallen behind financially by not being able to work in my chosen career
of being a Registered Nurse. This will have lasting impacts on my mental health. I will now have an
extremely large HECS debt, not be able to buy a house in my intended time frame, won't be able to
afford to start a family as soon as I had planned and have had to relocate to study again.

Whilst I was working in the Emergency Department we often were short staffed for shifts and we
were ramping ambulances nearly every single day. I hear from past colleagues that they are even
more short staffed these days. I want you to consider that by not allowing many capable nurses to
work and therefore having shortages of staff is this not putting patients in more danger? It is clear
now that the vaccine does not stop transmission. I personally take great care of my health and I have
never caught covid-19 despite being exposed to cases many times. As published in a plethora of
studies those who are most at risk of covid-19 are the elderly, the obese and diabetics, all of which I
do not fit the category. I was told many times that I would catch and spread Covid-19 by being
unvaccinated and it is clear that this was false information.



Thank you.
