                                                                               Courtney Henry




Dear Ms Kruk, Professor Bennet, Dr Jackson,

Submission for the Commonwealth Government’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I am a mid-career professional working within the environmental sector in Western Australia.
I appreciate the opportunity to share my views about the Commonwealth Government’s
response to COVID-19. My comments are primarily in relation to the terms of reference
which address ‘governance’ and ‘preventive health measures’.

Prevention as a priority
Given the enormity of human and economic costs of pandemics - and that pandemics much
worse than COVID-19 are possible - prevention should be our primary goal. It is within our
power to prevent novel pathogens from emerging and to quickly identify, contain and
eliminate them if they do.

Preventing pathogens from emerging and controlling them if they do should be top priorities
for the new Australian Centre for Disease Control. Bernstein et al make the economic case
for this in their paper “The costs and benefits of primary prevention of zoonotic pandemics”.
They show that, even on pessimistic assumptions and without considering the potential
impact of promising emerging technologies, significant investment in pandemic prevention is
overwhelmingly justified.

Sources: The costs and benefits of primary prevention of zoonotic pandemics - PMC
(nih.gov)

Factory farms are a way in which nature may develop such novel pathogens. In exchange
for cheap meat from factory farms, people are dying of bacterial infections that were trivial to
treat a few decades ago. Without paradigm shifts in industry or culture, I’m concerned that
accelerating demands for meat will only increase and intensify these risks.

Antibiotics are fed to animals to reduce bacterial infections and boost growth - 70% of
antibiotics produced globally are used in livestock, and estimates project that Australia will
see a 16% increase in antibiotic usage in farming over the decade to 2030. This overuse is a
driver of antibiotic-resistant infections globally. In 2020, antimicrobial resistance was
attributed to 1,031 deaths, $439 million in costs of premature death and the loss of 27,705
quality-adjusted life years in Australia. I understand that the Australian Government has
worked with industry so that its “livestock and seafood industries [have] ... little to no
resistance to antimicrobials”, and these steps should be lauded. However, this same
approach to ensuring intensive animal farming doesn’t risk human lives needs to be
expanded to include viruses - the key cause of pandemics.
Viruses with pandemic potential often originate in wildlife but can cross the species barrier
and pose a great risk to humans. Wild animals are natural hosts for viruses that can persist
without causing significant harm to the animals. Occasionally, these viruses can spill over
from wildlife to livestock in farms. In these farms, the viruses encounter new environments
and species, providing opportunities for genetic recombination and adaptation. This process
can enhance the virus's ability to infect and transmit among different hosts, including
humans. The proximity of wildlife, livestock, and humans in certain settings, such as live
animal markets, live exports, abattoirs or factory farms, increases the likelihood of
interspecies transmission events, potentially leading to the emergence of novel and more
transmissible viruses with pandemic potential.

We now know that the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic which caused an estimated 284,000 excess
deaths originated first in swine farms in central Mexico. This quote taken from peer reviewed
paper “Origins of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic in swine in Mexico”:

       “ This highlights the critical role that animal trading plays in bringing together diverse
       viruses from different continents, which can then combine and generate new
       pandemic viruses. “

Australia needs to drastically decrease the pathogen transmission risks from high animal
densities in live legal or illegal animal trade, live animal exports and factory farming.
Australia’s biosecurity strategies should require the industry to take practical steps to reduce
these risks. Where the risks remain too great or the prevention of pathogen transmission is
too costly, Australia has a duty to end these practices to avert pandemics.




I think Australia can and needs to do better than ^^^^^^^^^|prediction.

Citations
    • Disease burden, associated mortality and economic impact of antimicrobial resistant
        infections in Australia
    •       Antibiotic use in farming set to soar despite drug-resistance fears (see table 1)
    •       H1N1 Pandemic - Quick stats
    •       Origins of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic in swine in Mexico

To conclude, I think pandemics are one of the most important issues of our time, and the risk
from zoonotic pandemics potentially arising in factory farms is alarming. I think this inguiry
should carefully consider how future pandemics could start and ensure it makes specific
recommendations to reduce their likelihood.

Kind regards,
Courtney
