Re Submission to the Covid19 enquiry

To whom it may concern,

I am an entrepreneur who lived in          up to October 2020. My Covid 19 story




The symptoms and sudden severity of her illness lead me to check online at the end of
2019 for any outbreak around the world, and that is where I came across the Wuhan
story of 3 deaths from Coronavirus were reported in Wuhan.        health system did (or
could) not check for Coronavirus at end 2019 or early 2020, so I have not been able that
my mother did in fact have Coronavirus at end 2019.
But, because I had been early aware if the Wuhan outbreak I was some days and
weeks ahead of the general population who did not wake up to C19 until mid to late Jan
2020.
Personally I have always remained to be convinced that any of the measures that the
authorities and governments tool were necessary or effective.

Specifically

   1. Masks were something that I was forced to wear during the pandemic in certain
      businesses. I remain to be convinced if effective and or necessary.
   2.    Lock downs costed and had a major mental health impact.

   3. The vaccine which was emergency released has never seemed to be proven to
      be necessary or effective - yet a lot of money was spent on it. People who did
      not take the vaccine were accused of killing their family and communities. This
      was of course never proven to be true and those who did not take the vaccine
      fared better than those who did in terms of illness and death.
   4. The total waste of money from poor decisions and ill thought out of reactions has
      left a lasting impact on the economy and people’s lived. In 2023 the world is
      suffering from significant inflation prices, and a significant wealth transfer from
      the poor/Middle class to the rich-asset owners.


The upside of C19 for me was in the following ways
1.     My businesses benefited from government handling outs.
2. My businesses were all remote operating before c19 so we had little impact from
   C19
3. I personally got to move out of Sydney when property was cheap and this
   seachange had allowed me a great freedom and opportunity to thrice during c19.
