To:     Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,
PO Box 6500
Canberra ACT 2600

Re:     Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry Terms of
Reference

Dear Officer,

SUBMISSION

Australia and Australians deserve a full inquiry into the response to the Covid pandemic.
As this was the first time in our living history that we had a pandemic it would be prudent to ensure
we make objective assessments to the response and its effect on the whole population.

I firmly believe there was a definite overreach and reaction to a virus with a death rate lower than
the average annual influenza season. Australians need to know who was responsible for the hysteria.

As a woman with a 20-year career in general nursing the mandated masking, social distancing,
alcohol based hand sanitizing and lockdowns were not based on any historic science.
Isolation of potential carriers is common sense but not in the format it took, you could catch an
Uber/taxi from the airport, stop at the shops to do your grocery shopping then isolate for 14 days is
ridiculous.

The PCR testing was not specific to the Covid virus anc^^^^^^^the inventor of the test was the
first person to admit to that. What cycles were the laboratories using to produce the results they
got?

Although these were mandated on a state level our constitutional human rights were ignored and
allowed to continue with no handbrake from the Federal Government.

The Federal government purchased 255 million doses of "experimental vaccines" for a population of
25 million. Who lobbied for that number and who is accountable for that wastage of now expired
vials?

Australia needs to know if the state Premiers, health officer etc were compromised on their decision
making for profit, whether it was directly to them or close family members as was rumoured in many
chat rooms and on social media.

People in the medical industry were threatened for even questioning the management, others were
punished and ridiculed by APHRA and the TGA if they continued to question or offer alternative
treatments to the mandates or the vaccines.

People with vaccine injuries have been poorly compensated for temporary and lifelong injuries, we
are yet to see the numbers of side effects that are potentially going to show up in coming months
and years. Those in the medical fraternity who went along with the government narrative without
questioning will not be good advisors to people asking for help with the potential side effects of
these vaccines.
The economic fallout for small to medium size business needs to be investigated. As a small
business owner in the past, I know my business would not have survived. Although it was a
successful business, I know I would not have been able to continue to pay all my regular bills to keep
me afloat until state governments decided it was safe for me to re-open.

I was personally terminated from my employment for declining to have an experimental
injection/vaccine, I could not get any back up from government run agencies like Work Safe and Fair
Work Australia, the Federal govt was saying we had a choice but state governments took away our
choice As a result my working reputation has beei^amishec^nc^h^ol^ha^A/as going to take me
to retirement has impacted me to the sum                                        impacting my actual
retirement.

Present day average death rate of all cause mortality in Australia is well above average and not being
investigated impartially to see if it is related to the experimental vaccines.

Even today the Covid "vaccines" are being encouraged although their prevention of Covid is minimal
and Covid is only a threat to the usual cohorts of the elderly or those with co morbidities who would
succumb to the annual influenza death statistic.

Australia deserves an impartial full investigation of how the last few years have transpired and who
made the decisions and how will they be accountable for what they have done.



Regards,

Rosal Mullins
