                            14th Dec. 2023


         Submission to the COVID-19
             Response Inquiry
         To the members of the Independent Panel

     I am writing this submission to voice my concerns over several aspects of Australia’s
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I applaud the inquiry’s goal to improve pandemic
preparedness, but I believe there are critical aspects of Australia’s response that need to be
properly reviewed to prevent the same errors from being repeated:

     Issues relating to Governance:
     Like many of my fellow Australians I was shocked to realise our prime minister had
subsumed 5 ministerial roles enabling him to rule somewhat like a “dictator”. It is hard to

find alternative words for this dangerous breach of the limit of powers of democratically

elected leaders. I have German/Jewish roots and I am all too aware of the methods used in

Germanys past. I would never have thought this could occur in a country like Australia. In
a similar fashion the state governments literally closed down and handed the running of

the country over to a handful of unelected bureaucrats. I am not questioning their motives

here - but how can citizens feel safe from harm when all the usual democratic safety valves
are closed.

     The level of police brutality displayed on the streets of Australian cities towards
ordinary Australian citizens, using their constitutional rights to disagree and protest, was

deplorable. Worst of all was the silence of parliamentarians speaking out against this

violence. Fear has a way of shutting down rational discourse needed in a healthy
flourishing society.

     The economic, social and psychological impacts of the lockdowns were profound.

Many of my friends lost their jobs just because they decided not to take a government

proscribed medication. Forbidding families to be with their dying loved ones was a



SUBMISSION TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY                                                    1
shameful side effect of the lockdowns. I cannot even begin to imagine the anguish many

elderly and their respective families experienced. Surely this decision should be up to

those suffering and their loved ones. I do not believe a free and moral society can
acceptably behave in this way.

     It is clear that there was an unprecedented level of “fear messaging” from
government and media, which at times lead to a degree of shaming and “othering” of

people that is entirely Un-Australian. I sincerely hope that this independent panel will take
a hard look at the communication strategies applied across the country that created an

un-warranted degree of fear, stress and psychological pressure. It no-doubt has had
serious negative outcomes, especially for the lesser fortunate members of our society.

     Issues with Kev health responses:
     The Australian TGA in effect acted above and beyond what most citizens would

naturally consider to be their role as an advisory panel. In an unprecedented act of

“suppression” the TGA made it a criminal act to prescribe or take the drug ‘Ivermectin’.

Science is not done in a vacuum.
     Whilst I can accept that there are different views from different scientific bodies on
the effectiveness of drugs, what is irrefutable is the safety profile of this drug. Study after

study has proven that this drug was a cheap, safe and effective drug in the early treatment

of Covid.

     Instead our response was to tell citizens to just wait at home until your symptoms
demand hospitalisation. Scores of Doctors around the world alerted their respective

governments of the success of this drug. In some countries it was hailed as a miracle cure
and here in Australia we demonised the drug, labelling it as a “horse-dewormer”, making a

mockery of the true scientific process called debate research and review. World renowned
Doctot^^^^^J resorted to writing a book about the censoring of this drug that in his

medical opinion could have saved the lives of millions.
     The Australian public was barraged with a now “debunked” narrative of a safe and

effective vaccine, with stated efficacy of 90% that turned out to be completely false. In

addition the public was lied to that the vaccine would prevent the spread of covid, whilst



SUBMISSION TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY                                                       2
government agencies such as the US FDA eventually conceded that this too was false.

Large scale Cochrane studies have now substantially proven that the benefit of masking to

prevent the spread of Covid is at best inconclusive. This hardly can be a sufficient
justification to use Government and Police coercion to enforce statewide masking. The

damage this has done to the children who lived through this period will be felt for
decades. A recent Rasmussen poll in the USA has found that nearly a quarter of Americans

know someone who died from Covid Vaccine side effects. Our government has not done
nearly enough to follow up how much harm has been done to the Australian public and it
is my sincere hope that this inquiry will be a step in the right direction.

      Trust in government has been seriously eroded and unless this inquiry establishes
the reasons why these failures occurred we are somewhat doomed to be subjected to
them again. Finally I would like to state my categorical disagreement with the terms of
reference of the inquiry, relating to the actions taken by the state and territory

governments such as border closures. These closures were from my reading
unconstitutional. Several expectant mothers & patients with serious & life threatening

medical conditions were turned down from accessing urgent medical care in major cities
simply because the premiers were so inflexible to allow an exemption. Some of these cases
directly lead to serious bodily harm and even death. How could this happen in a country

like Australia? We must do everything in our power to learn from these errors and put
measures in place to prevent them from happening again.


      Thank you for your consideration,

      Sincerely,




      https://www.rasmussenreports.com/public_content/politics/public_surveys/

killer_jab_24_say_someone_they_know_died_from_covid_19_vaccine

      https://www.cochrane.org/news/statement-physical-interventions-interrupt-or-reduce-spread-

respiratory-viruses-review

      https://www.amazon.com/War-Ivermectin-Medicine-Millions-Pandemic/dp/151077386X



SUBMISSION TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY                                                        3
