                             To Whom It May Concern
The purpose of the inquiry is “identify lessons learned to improve Australia’s
preparedness for future pandemics”.
The federal government was allowed to coerce vaccination while denying it was
mandated. They informally outsourced it to states and corporations who sacked
you if you didn’t inject: teachers, police, healthcare workers, bus drivers,
supermarket workers. People were being sacked for not injecting, is by saying the
FEDERAL government failed to introduce anti-discrimination legislation like these
two Bills here (that failed to pass).
   • Key health response measures: (eg: the gene-vaccines and treatments, key
     medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine
     facilities, and public health messaging)
   • International policies to support Australians at home and abroad: (including
     with regard to international border closures, and securing vaccine supply
     deals with international partners for domestic use in Australia).
A reminder to the government, that provisionally registered medical products rely
on adverse event reporting to build the safety profile of the drug, and that if you
then censor and bully people from criticising that drug then you will break that
system, killing people.
The Australian government gave $8 billion to Big Pharma for poorly tested gene­
vaccines, sight unseen, then having the chair of CEPI (that pushes mRNA and 100-
day vaccines for                                     review the procurement deal
might be a conflict of interest. How and why could this happen. There are many
people that know what is going on behind the scenes and how other countries are
involved and the slow rollout of the one world government and the rest. Absolutely
disgusting!!!! As an Australian, people who are representing us ARE NOT. They
are all in it for themselves and the greed of money.
The comprehensive AMPS book Too Many Dead has 470 pages with evidence of
the excess deaths crisis directly caused by the government’s mandated jabs and
other errors.
We know that the government are overtly manipulating ABS data to hide excess
deaths.
There is so much out there and the people that know what is going on.
Personally. Many people that I know have taken the vaccine have now regrated it.
People I worked with have heart issues and they were young fit athletic people.
Others have medical issues that have come from nowhere as there is no evidence
throughout their whole family history.
The number of relatives, friends and family that now
^^^^^^^^^|have them growing at the fastest rate seen. Friends with babies in
hospital withand doctors cannot explain why. Fetuses being naturally
aborted from mother’s wombs, as there are so many things wrong with them. So
many deaths!!!! So many!!!!
My ^^^^Hwas stuck overseas in a compound for 7 months and took its toll
mentally. We have gone on 3 years working with him to support him to recovery.
You all know this as this is what the plan was to divide people and set people up
against people. Disgusting.
This inquiry is to support the real people of Australia. The ones that support each
other, that stand for truth, that share comradeship and actually care. To well out a
nation to another???? By doing the unthinkable is on those who have committed
this atrocity. It doesn’t matter what you think of me or anyone opposing what is
going on. Our hands are clean. Judgement will come, it will come.
This is not to happen again. Stop selling out Australia in any ways or mean. It is
not yours to do that with it. The government and those that work for it are not ALL
the Australians. You forgot to count the rest of us! We are ALL AUSTRALIANS.


Opposing the lies, the untruths!!!
Michelle
