From:
Sent: Friday, 15 December 2023 1:48 PM
To: COVID-19lnquiry <COVID-19lnquiry@prnc.gov.au>
Subject: Submission to Covid-19 Inquiry

For the attention of Inquiry Panelists:

My original training is in the biological sciences. It was obvious to me at the outset that this was not
about the science, and I put those concerns on the public record at the time. And many times since.

I have three children.

I warned them of the flawed narrative supporting the response by government, and I pointed them
to the multiple independent sources of relevant expertise who similarly declaimed that official
narrative.

One heeded my warning, and declined to be injected. Two trusted the government. Two chose to
be injected. Both of them suffered life-threatening adverse reactions.

So please let the government not presume to add insult to injury by telling me what I may or may
not say about how this whole episode was so obviously planned and orchestrated, and by whom,
and to what end.

To me it is clear as day that the initial response was merely pump-priming, and served to
precondition the general population for wholesale injection.

And so followed excess deaths that were (and continue to be) off the charts. And other adverse
effects, too many to mention here; so many of them individually horrific and life-changing.

Will you offer the lame excuse that causation has not been demonstrated? If you are open to the
truth, read Dr Wilson Sy's expert analysis. At least please read the Abstract. If you are not open to
the truth, that is on your head. No analysis will be sufficient.

Where is the regression analysis that the government is uniquely and completely equipped to
undertake, the regression analysis of deaths and adverse events against injections, the regression
analysis that cries out to be done, and quickly ?

Where are the autopsies that in all the circumstances ought to have been automatic? (And I note
international evidence that specialised methodologies are required for sufficient determination.)

Where is the precautionary principle, given that the adverse events from this suite of noxious
injections far eclipses any precedent?

Where is the default resort to and reliance to natural immunity, which was not only silenced, but
neutered by many of the responses of government?

Where is informed consent, in all this? The continuing disclosure of the real story, particularly by
whistleblowers and by forced disclosures through the courts, makes it increasingly clear that the
injections were unnecessary, ineffective and unsafe; and that these three lies were a mantra in the
mouths of law-makers and biocrats?
Where is the equity principle in our courts? The whole official narrative was fuelled by and relied
critically on a PCR 'test', but a supreme court judge saw fit to dismiss an expert affidavit exposing its
limitations. A federal court judge saw fit to deny standing to an affected individual and to a
member-based organisation whose relevance in this case is unmatched. (They could both take
lessons from the Lisbon Appeals Court.)

Where is a proper, independent and exhaustive inquiry into the events preceding the proclamation
of the 'pandemic', and following it, including the economic and social and financial costs? Why was
it left to non-government initiatives (Professor Foster etc), long since, to do the analysis required?

Where is the retraction of advice on masking? This counterproductive measure was instigated
contrary to the then recommendations of the DoH, and has done massive and irremedial damage to
our community, for reasons that are well documented and that I have communicated to the
CHO; yet it lingers and the community suffers on.

The truth will out; developments in NZ and Italy are just two examples. And as the truth rises to the
surface, the biggest task facing this country will be to manage the forgiving and healing that will be
required. The longer the delay, the greater the damage, and the less the excuse

So much more I could say, and if you have any appetite to explore anything further, I am at your
service.

Yours sincerely




Tel |
