14/12/2023


To the Commonwealth Government,

Before I start to lay out the reasons I make this submission, I would like to be very clear about the disappointment I
express in not being able to include the state and territory roles in the Covid-19 response, as they also constitute the
Commonwealth. This could indicate that the Commonwealth Government does not take this enquiry seriously and
the media blackout and short length to submit, could corroborate this.

Based on sparse international, commonly 'Fauci' American information that the Commonwealth Government did not
personally investigate or test, the Covid era saw life-altering and threatening decisions being coerced or imposed
unlawfully onto the Australian population, without the science to prove it. 'Trust the science," was parroted across
the country by politicians and compliant media, and the non-the-wiser trusting citizens were duped into a false sense
of 'safety'. Well, that manufactured science has been debunked all over the world and a rise in all cause mortality
since the Covid vaccine rollout, and still we see today, no apology by the Commonwealth Government past LNP or
present ALP, or vaccine mandates removed in some industries. Unless we see the Covid era be rightly reviewed, our
country can no longer be described as a free democracy, based on the rule of law with respect for human rights that
citizens across the globe are inherently born with. Below I will raise issues that must be addressed, investigated, and
learned from, in order to prevent another catastrophic response to any 'real' pandemic.

I would like to focus on the following:
Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory governments,
national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and Australian
Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to Covid.

The breakdown in the rule of law and the widespread violation of human rights are to name a few amongst a
plethora of unaddressed issues. Each needing to be examined to ensure accountability for those responsible and an
open address of the lessons learned and apologies to the Australian public.

Itemised below, are the most obvious points that must be addressed in this enquiry for the above focus:
    1. At a time of crisis, the refusal to allow Australian citizens the lawful right to return home, was a breach in
        faith with the Australian public and cut to the very heart of distrust of the Commonwealth Government.
        Besides the two week halt as Covid hit, there should have been no reason not to bring citizens home, instead
        they were financially drained overseas, many struggling to afford the ticket home.
    2. The Constitution has no basis for a National Cabinet, period. Combining the executive branches of state and
        federal governments undermines the rule of law including emergency laws which clearly outline the
        emergency process and transparency measures, which are designed to protect the Australian people in
        moments exactly such as these. Worse still, the secrecy of this National Cabinet and its meeting minutes,
        only fuels the waning distrust of the Australian people in meaningful accountability of mistakes.
    3. Scott Morrison, the Prime Minister at the time, appointed himself a multitude of Ministerial positions,
        including Governor General, centralising himself and the most powerful and unaccountable person in the
        country. Thus, it made a mockery of the Westminster system we 'apparently' live under. This should never
        have been allowed to happen where one person 'dictates' over the entire country. Australia is a democracy,
        not a socialist or communist one.
    4. Border closures lead to the death of Australian people, including the well-publicised deaths of children, due
        to lack of medical intervention, was abhorrent. The inhumane actions of the Commonwealth Government,
        that were highly illegal under the Constitution, have left a unsavoury mark on the Australian people.
    5. The Commonwealth Government gave consent by way of silence, arguably showing support for the state and
        territory mandates for an EXPERIMENTAL mRNA gene therapy, violates human rights beyond a level I would
        never have considered could happen in our Australian democracy. Australia signed the Nuremberg Code
        post WWII, yet it knowingly breached it and assumed total power over EVERY individual's body. The
        Commonwealth Government should have never allowed this to happen and did have the power to stop this.
        It is important that this enquiry do its job well considering we are talking about an experimental mRNA gene
        therapy that was mandated. It had no proven track record of efficacy or safety, it was a medical experiment.
I would like to focus on the following:
Key health response measures (for example across Covid vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as
personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

Itemised below, are the most obvious points that must be addressed in this enquiry for the above focus:
1. Safe and effective, early interventions were dismissed, derided, and then banned. These cheap and effective
    treatments, were then and now, known without a doubt to reduce hospitalisations and deaths of over 80%.
    Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine, are two respective therapies that have a proven track record, but were said
    to give worse health outcomes, a true inversion of a clearly Commonwealth Government controlled health
    system, that should actually serve to protect its people. Worse still, the large amount of Hydroxychloroquine that
    Clive Palmer bought to provide for the Australian people, was destroyed by the Commonwealth Government,
    making it complicit in the 'legitimate' died of Covid, deaths of Australians. Sneakily, these medications were
    quietly placed back on the register for approval of use, two-three years later since Covid arrived in Australia in
    March, 2020.
2. Dismissing Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine, both safe and effective treatments for reducing Covid
    hospitalisations and deaths, was the Commonwealth Government's necessary prerequisite to the emergency
    approval of the various novel Covid-19 mRNA gene therapies, because of the requirement that, "There is no
    adequate, approved, and available alternative to the product." This calls into question the purported
    professional independence of the regulatory bodies who dismiss the proven therapies. Sounds like the
    relationship of the Government and these supposed 'independent' bodies are in fact in bed with each other.
3. The threats and harassments by AHPRA towards medical practitioners who knew better and dissented with the
    Government's stated position on 'safe and effective' Covid-19 mRNA experimental gene therapies that
    performed poorly, instead preferring early effective interventions such as Ivermectin or Hydroxychloroquine,
    represents the weaponising of the medical regulatory system to achieve political outcomes.
4. The failure of the Commonwealth Government to test the emergency use experimental Covid-19 mRNA gene
    therapies, is outrageous. They were not assessed and the FOIA has managed to uncover the truth of the failures
    of the Government and the TGA, who clearly were worked in lockstep alongside the state and territory leaders.
    None of the Covid-19 mRNA gene therapies were assessed against typical Australian safety standards. It has
    been proven across the world that these Covid-19 mRNA gene therapies contain pollutant DNA and various
    harmful genetically modified organisms, toxic to the human body. This is leading to an increase of medical
    lawsuits in Australia and across the world, which will in time, lead to compensation and payouts for those
    harmed by the 'unapproved' Covid-19 mRNA gene therapies.
5. Excess mortality is up in Australia and the only factor that can be considered is the Covid-19 mRNA gene
    therapies. The rollout dates and the increase in excess mortality are undeniable, they go hand in hand. No other
    new factor was introduced other than the experimental Covid-19 mRNA gene therapy. Yet, the Commonwealth
    Government is awfully silent, and even though they WOULD BE AWARE of such data, they are ignoring the rather
    large elephant in the room. Not only is the increase in excess mortality being observed by many qualified people
    and citizens 'with a brain' in Australia, but it is also being seen across the 'vaccinated' world, with countries
    conducting enquiries into excess mortality or being sued for it. How can our Commonwealth Government and
    state and territory leaders be so consumed with 'covid deaths' during the so-called pandemic, but fail to see the
    17% excess mortality since the rollout of the experimental gene therapies? The sad fact is that excess mortality
    has not returned to pre-covid stats... and we know it's not covid killing our citizens today.

I would like to focus on the following:
Mechanisms to better target future responses to the need of particular populations (including across genders, age
groups, socio-economic status, religion, geographic location, people with disability, First Nations peoples and
communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities).

Itemised below, are the most obvious points that must be addressed in this enquiry for the above focus:
    1. By April 2020, it was known based on worldwide data (Italy, Sweeden, Israel etc.) that elderly were at a
        higher risk of severe sickness and death from Covid, and as aged dropped, severe sickness and death were
        negligible unless people had comorbidities. This was never taken into account and the entire Australian
        population were treated the same, thus affecting livelihoods (border closures, lockdowns, business closures
        etc) and mental health. Referring to the harsh border closures, we cannot forget that Scott Morrison
         parroted that he did not call for them, instead blaming it all on the state and territory leaders who were
         under his guidance on the National Cabinet. In the future, a risk profile must be given consideration before a
         response to future pandemics in instigated.
    2.   Safe and effective existing therapies should never be banned in Australia, period. The banning of Ivermectin
         and Hydroxychloroquine, was a violation of the rights of Australians to access the medical care right for
         them. The sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship should never be broken or compromised again. It is
         very clear and known that the banning of such safe and effective medications, lead to a multitude of deaths
         across Australia and the world.
    3.   The Commonwealth Government should never be silent in the face of stats and territories violating human
         rights of the Australian people. The Commonwealth Government has been able to intervene into state and
         territory wrong doings in the past, and even present with the wetlands and water buy backs, so it cannot say
         that it could not have intervened. This is hogwash.
    4.   All working information from the Commonwealth, state and territory governments, MUST be released to the
         public. Politicians work for the people, not the other way around. This is most important in emergency
         situations and where trust must be built by the politicians who earn off the tax purse.
    5.   Commonwealth, state and territory governments must act off their respective constitutions, period. All
         decision making must be made of legal structures, including relative checks and balances all whilst being
         transparent in the process. The National Cabinet must be abandoned as it is not constitutional, and all past
         minutes of the meetings should be released and NOT redacted.
    6.   NO government in Australia should be allowed to mandate ANY medical procedure. This includes childhood
         vaccines. All rights to children's bodies should belong to the parents and all adults should have complete
         autonomy over their bodies and what they put in them. The believed safety and effectiveness is irrelevant.
         When it comes to medicine, you get consent, or you don't do it and no exception should be allowed or
         accepted. There was no ability to give real informed consent during the push of the Covid-19 mRNA gene
         therapies as there was no information on the package insert, it was completely blank. How politicians and
         so-called medical experts could speak with such confidence on the product, is beyond me.

There are a great many more issues I would like to raise here, and many people in Australia NEED to be help
accountable for their decisions that so devastatingly impacted the Australian people. An inquiry is very much needed
as we are talking about the deaths and human rights violations that were completely preventable.

Regards,
