                           Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                This submission is relevant to the first two areas of review in the terms of reference.



About the author.
I am a retired occupational hygienist. Occupational hygiene is the science of anticipating,
recognising, evaluating and controlling health hazards in occupational environments. In almost all
workplaces, the vast majority of health hazards that occupational hygienists deal with are airborne
ones. My first job in occupational hygiene was in the South Australian Department of Public
Health where I established for the first time in South Australia the ability to measure airborne
asbestos and airborne respirable crystalline silica by the currently accepted methods in order to be
able to control those airborne health risks.


Summary.
This submission is concerned with three very important failures during Australia's response to
Covid-19. These failures continue to the present day. They are:
     1. A failure to understand the implications of the scientific findings about the airborne
        transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and therefore the range of expertise needed to
        properly respond to the epidemic.
     2. A gross failure in public health messaging, particularly as it relates to airborne
        transmission, but also more broadly.
     3. A failure to properly use Australia's Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) legislation to
        control the airborne transmission of the virus.


Airborne transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
The Lancet Commission carried out a very detailed and very well documented review of the
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. They were critical of the time it took the WHO to
acknowledge the role of airborne transmission and said1:
    A paradigm shift in how we view and address the transmission of respiratory infectious diseases is underway.118
    Airborne transmission in both the near-fields and the far-fields is a crucial, if not dominant, exposure pathway for
    SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory viruses. Laboratory, field, modelling, and case studies have shown that airborne
    transmission through the inhalation of a virus-laden aerosol is important, if not dominant, for COVID-19.119132
    Although transmission can occur through touch, it is rare for respiratory viruses, and touch and spray transmission
    are not likely to contribute to widespread transmission or superspreading events. As nearly all transmission occurs
    indoors, the way in which we design and operate building ventilation and filtration systems can reduce transmission.

This submission does not address how long it took the various Australian health authorities to
acknowledge the science of airborne transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, but points out that it is
an extremely important question, as Australia's response to future new health threats must be
flexible and must change and adapt to scientific knowledge as it evolves.



 The Lancet Commission on lessons for the future from the COVID-19 pandemic, page 13. Report first published online on September 14, 2022
https://doi.org/10.1016/ 50140-6736(22)01585-9 Superscript numbers in the section quoted refer to the documents cited in the Commission's
report.
                                                           January 4, 2024.
Submission by David Hamilton to the Covid-19 Inquiry                                                                                  Page 2

Once the science of the airborne transmission of the virus had been accepted, however, numerous
changes to Australia's response arrangements should have happened immediately. Most
importantly, the top expert groups advising National Cabinet should have been widened to
include people with established expertise in the management and control of airborne health
hazards, such as aerosol scientists, occupational hygienists, and ventilation engineers. Australia is
fortunate to be well supplied with people with a wide range of relevant expertise, and it should be
a matter of national shame that several of the prominent names from OzSAGE2 were not, and are
still not at the centre of national advice.
Another key outcome from updated scientific understanding of the transmission of the virus
relates to the role of masks. It should have been realised that the aerosol sizes masks needed to
block were some orders of magnitude smaller than originally thought, and that this called for
respiratory protection that had been certified to at least P2 standard in AS/NZS 17163. Neither cloth
masks nor surgical masks are so certified and are therefore not fit for the purpose of protecting
wearers against the transmission of the virus. Nevertheless, some Australian health authorities still
recommend such masks, or for example, fail to distinguish between mask types while showing
footage of masks that are not P2 respirators4.


Public Health Messaging.
Health risk messaging was an important part of my job as an occupational hygienist, particularly
when I was employed in industry. The clear absence of buy-in for Covid precautions such as mask
wearing amongst significant (and vocal) sections of the population is evidence of the failure of
public health messaging. The Inquiry will hopefully dig very hard into this aspect of Australia's
response.
When the airborne nature of the transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus was properly understood,
much of the earlier public health messaging about the primary importance of hand sanitising and
social distancing indoors turned out to have been wrong, but no attempt was made to correct the
record. Yes, more recent messaging may now mention ventilation, but how many Australians
realise that our fundamental understanding of how the disease is transmitted from person to
person has changed since the early days of the pandemic? If I had so badly mishandled health risk
messaging as an occupational hygienist working in industry I would have deserved to have lost
my job.


Relevance of Australia's Workplace Health and Safety (WHS) Legislation.
Workplace Health and Safety is regulated in Australia by States and Territories, through a system
of nationally harmonised legislation and other requirements5. These include a Model WHS Act,
Model WHS Regulations, and Model WHS Codes of Practice6. The model WHS Act imposes a
range of general duties which are intended to be universally applicable to all Australian
workplaces. Section 19 starts as follows7:



2 https://ozsage.org/member-list/
3 Australian/New Zealand Standard 1716:2012 Respiratory protective devices. Standards Australia and Standards New Zealand, 13 February 2012.
4 https://wwwhealth.gov.au/resources/videos/covid-19-video-staving-safe-from-covid-19?language=en at time 0.19. Department of Health and
Aged Care, advertisement last updated 22 December 2023.
5 A good overview of the arrangements can be found at https://www.dewr.gov.au/work-health-and-safety
6 https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/law-and-regulation/legislation
7 https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-12/model-whs-bill-23 november 2023.pdf page 28.

                                                              fanuary 4, 2024.
Submission by David Hamilton to the Covid-19 Inquiry                                                                        Page 3

    19 Primary duty of care
        (1) A person conducting a business or undertaking must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and
            safety of:
            (a)            workers engaged, or caused to be engaged by the person; and
            (b) workers whose activities in carrying out work are influenced or directed by the person, while the workers
                are at work in the business or undertaking.
        (2) A person conducting a business or undertaking must ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the health
            and safety of other persons is not put at risk from work carried out as part of the conduct of the business or
            undertaking.
        (3) Without limiting subsections (1) and (2), a person conducting a business or undertaking must ensure, so far as
            is reasonably practicable:
            (a) the provision and maintenance of a work environment without risks to health and safety; and


These provisions are highly relevant to the management of the Covid-19 health risk in Australia
because:
    1. The laws are designed to be as universal as possible, covering all health risks in all
       workplaces, including those operated by volunteer organisations.
    2. Since "nearly all transmission occurs indoors"8 it is very hard to envision a building other
       than a private dwelling which is not also a workplace for some or all of the people who go
       there.
    3. Therefore, minimising transmission of the virus in all Australian workplaces, as already
       required in Australian WHS laws, should go a long way to reducing the incidence of Covid-
       19 in Australia.
Some further provisions of Australia's WHS laws are relevant. The Model WHS Regulations
include the hierarchy of control9, the relevant components of which are, in descending order of
preference:
   •     Engineering controls - ventilation or air filtration in the case of the SARS-CoV-2 virus;
    •        Administrative controls - testing and isolating infectious persons; and finally
    •        Personal protective equipment - respiratory protection.
Clearly, legislation that is not enforced will not reduce transmission. It is also clear that minimising
transmission indoors by providing adequate ventilation cannot be achieved overnight. We have
the legislative underpinning: what is needed are the programs to help every Australian workplace
comply with existing laws which require minimising the transmission of the virus in all indoor
workplaces.




8 Lancet Commission as quoted on page 1 of this submission.
9 https://www.safeworkaustralia.gov.au/sites/default/files/2023-08/model~whs-regulations-l august 2023.pdf regulation 36.
                                                              January 4, 2024.
