Dear COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

My name               a private individual currently residing in              Without getting into too
much painful details, I have been severely impacted by - the same as most Australians, I think - not
just with the pandemic itself, but in how everything else was managed by the government, from
lockdowns to various protocols like the wearing of masks and other restrictions, which split our family
and caused us much grief and emotional stress and which also severely impacted our business just like
many others.

As the years passed by and more information have become available, most of them repressed, we
become aware that a lot of the response to the pandemic could and should have been better. To think
that Australia already had a good plan laid out in response to such a calamity and that such plan was ill-
utilised or disregarded and replaced by constantly-changing directives and mis-managed protocols,
what hardships could have been avoided and what happens in the future if such a calamity occurs
again? Who would be held responsible for such decisions? And who would be accountable to the
people - us Australians - who are greatly affected?

I strongly request a full Royal Commission for a proper investigation into the following:

   •   Who decided to do the opposite of the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic
       Influenza
   •       Vaccine mandates and their procurement (and secret contracts)
   •   The denial from the government of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured as well as the
       misinformation in the media given by the government regarding the ability of efficacy of
       vaccines and the potency of the virus’ transmission
   •       Mask mandates and lockdowns
   •   The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the vaccine
       and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession

We need real answers, and not just whitewashing. We need to be assured that such mismanagement will
not happen again in the future. We need the truth and not misinformation. We need transparency in
everything the government does. This is our fundamental right.

Thank you very much.


Best regards,
