Katelyn Rolfe
Tasmania
15 December 2023

                 Submission: Australian Federal Covid-19 Response Inquiry

As an Australian citizen, it was astonishing to see human rights completely disregarded
during Australia's Covid-19 Response. Rights such as freedom of movement, freedom from
discrimination, bodily autonomy, freedom of speech, and more.

With the amount of excess deaths we are now experiencing in 2023, whether that be from
depression, delayed doctors' appointments, or even experimental vaccinations, it is clear
that the Government's Covid-19 response was an overwhelming failure and disastrous to the
overall health and wellbeing of Australians in general.

A royal commission should be the minimum basic step the current government and future
governments take in addressing the wrongs committed underneath the banner of Australia's
Covid-19 response.

Key points addressing terms of reference:

1. The Australian Federal Government allowed the discrimination of groups of people by
encouraging workplaces to discriminate based on vaccination status. This goes against the
human right of bodily autonomy and many felt forced to take a new vaccine that they did
not want to take.

2. The Australian Government protected pharmaceutical companies over its citizens by
giving indemnity to the companies for vaccine injuries. Many people did end up being
injured by the Covid-19 vaccines, and these protections have prevented them from getting
justice. If a company, particularly a pharmaceutical company, has a product that they
represent as being 'safe and effective', they should not need indemnity.

3. The Australian Government spend billions of tax payers' dollars buying Covid-19 vaccines,
only to privatise the contracts. If it was bought with public money, it should be public
information.

4. Not allowing - or making it extremely difficult for - Australians who were overseas to
return home, or Australians stranded in other states to return home. Locking people in their
homes for weeks, sometimes months, at a time. Restricting freedom of movement - and
actually making travel a criminal offence - is a clear human rights violation.

5. The restriction of effective early treatments for Covid-19 - restricting ivermectin and
hydroxychloroquine when they were proven successful in the treatment of Covid-19 patients
early on in the pandemic. Both medications are well known in the medical community as
safe treatments - for humans - and effective against viruses.
Studies of efficacy like this one -- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7534595/
-- are easily available.

These are just a few points for your consideration.
Thank you for your time,

Sincerely,

Katelyn Rolfe
