Submission to highlight lessons learned to improve Australia's Commonwealth preparedness for
future pandemics

I am providing this submission in order to highlight lessons learned to improve Australia's
preparedness for future pandemics. Specifically, I aim to submit my experience of the
Commonwealth Government's response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic, and their impact. I
feel that the clear failure of Commonwealth Government systems to effectively anticipate, adapt
and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic should be addressed, especially where:

    •   The Commonwealth mandated COVID-19 vaccinations for aged care, a targeted
        pharmaceutical product requirement irrespective of individual medical history for this
        vulnerable age group,
    •   The Commonwealth enabled COVID-19 vaccination mandates with their data sharing
        arrangements with the states and vaccination databases,
    •   The Commonwealth failed to act to protect Australians' human rights from the abuse and
        coercion of States and private businesses, with public health messaging which failed to
        support the health of the public under measures aimed at compliance instead of wellbeing,
    •   The Commonwealth provided funding and quarantine facilities in support of the abuse,
        indiscriminate lockdowns and coercion of States and private businesses, and
    •   The Commonwealth funded vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic
        use in Australia, leaving States and private businesses free to use their funds for abuse and
        coercion.

The lockdowns caused emotional distress, disruption in children's education and affected people's
mental health, alienated families from each other, and caused economic distress. My own child was
forced to study from home with inadequate study materials and support, and still suffers from an
entire school year which has been delayed in school progress. My own family was spread across
Local Government Areas and separated by the lockdowns supported by Commonwealth messaging
and advice. This remains an impact of several years lost on our family, from a disease where more
people died from poor medical treatment and our own family experienced COVID-19 as no more
than a passing influenza.

The Commonwealth government's provision of masks and contradictory public messaging on mask
mandates created paranoia, with surreal mandates including being able to take a mask off while
eating, or needing to wear a mask while out in the open fresh air. With no clear messaging on masks,
cloth masks, masks intended as temporary splash covers for doctors without efficacy against viral
transfer, and multiple invented measures were adopted as required in the face of evidence and
usage up to 2019, or since 2023.

Masks with no mask hygiene requirements (replacement every hour) or coverage requirements
were enforced on children, who were clearly understood in infection studies to have extremely low
rates of infection. These children had their language skills and ability to read emotions harmed, and
those with Auditory Processing Disorders and sensory issues had their overall development of
language harmed, impacting their learning. Without clear evidence-backed messaging from
Commonwealth, and with Commonwealth-funded medical supplies, States were able to adopt
whichever medical intervention they chose as plausible, without concern of the long-term harms
and side-effects.

Overall, masks were a security blanket or fig leaf, rather than following science, clearly evidenced in
how infection rates increased rapidly after mask mandates were imposed, and have since fallen,
since mask mandates have been removed. Children were forced into accepting mouth sores and
bacterial infections, given their continuous masking with no mask replacement or removal
requirement. There were no standardised masks.

The Commonwealth funding of vaccines and of quarantine facilities enabled States to set up two-tier
societies, where those who were unable to tolerate the COVID-19 vaccinations for medical or
religious reasons, or who had been harmed by the vaccinations, were discriminated against, lost
their employment, or were forced to lose social support structures. Commonwealth data sharing and
vaccination databases enabled businesses and public healthcare to share Sensitive Private
Information without concern or limit, or legal recourse. States were able to threaten removing
licenses of any doctor who provided evidence of potential harms from the COVID-19 vaccinations,
no matter how true or evidence-backed. Friends and family had doctors jeer at them for refusing the
COVID-19 vaccination. The Commonwealth enabled a descent into Apartheid (those who accepted
the experimental COVID-19 vaccination and those who refused, given the evidence) and fascism (the
complete cooperation between government and industry to enforce a requirement on a people).

The Commonwealth government confirmed that the COVID-19 vaccinations were neither safe nor
effective by not taking responsibility or liability for those injured or killed by the vaccinations (by
simply classifying those less than two weeks after the COVID-19 vaccination, the most harmful
period, as unvaccinated). There are no long-term studies of the COVID-19 vaccinations, given the
short time between manufacture and mandate, to prove that they were safe and effective, making a
mockery of the scientific process. There were no scientific studies to prove that the vaccines block
transmission. A vaccine does not become safe or effective just because the Commonwealth says so.

Doctors lost their credibility by being blocked from giving their individualised attention by preventing
them from doing personalised medicine. As we all know, people are unique, all genetically different,
so cannot be treated like cattle and any medical professional that is worth their salt will tell that
generic medicine creates injury when people are treated like cattle. The Commonwealth created
conflict of interest for doctors, and took away their credibility as they could not provide
individualised medicine to their patients, preventing them from giving informed consent via AHPRA
and ATAGI. By first confusingly indicating that AHPRA was a federal regulator, and later that it was a
State regulator, the Commonwealth enabled the confusion that prevented doctors from being able
to provide informed consent.

The Commonwealth interfered in the relationship between patient and doctor by dictating to
doctors what they could and could not say, thus breaking a human right that people have a choice
on what they do or don't do with their bodies. The Commonwealth encouraged the states to
suppress the individual medical human right choices of people. The Commonwealth even paid States
for the number of people who were vaccinated, which is a conflict of interest.

It is not the Commonwealth's role to tell people what they can and cannot put in their bodies, by the
Commonwealth withholding Ivermectin and access to Hydroxychloroquine. That is their freedom of
choice. There are more long-term studies supporting Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin than there
were studies to support the COVID-19 vaccine.

The Commonwealth spread consistent propaganda via the media by creating fear and manipulating
the public through their media reports and the lies that were consistently told and their faulty PCR
tests, and describing Ivermectin as horse-past not consumed by humans, even though it received a
Nobel prize in Japan. Anybody that has studied propaganda can tell you that when you do A you get
the effect B or C. Being told that if you don't accept the vaccine, you will kill the elderly is a clear
example, or that those who didn't get the vaccine were evil or selfish, consistently manipulated their
words with no science to back it up. Science uses a broad range of different medical professionals,
and allows them to have free open debate. The strength of science is in the discussion and open
debating of it freely, and not the suppression of it.

The Commonwealth has not provided for the victims of the vaccination, as everyone knows
someone who has been injured, from my                                got myocarditis to my
                         has pericarditis/tomy^^^^^^fwho dropped dead from it, to many a
friend and family member that either has suffered from a stroke, a heart attack, myocarditis or
pericarditis. I have stopped counting.

As is documented, the Commonwealth-promoted TGA gets 96% of its funding from pharmaceutical
companies, so why would any rational, well-educated person take any advice from them or the
government when it refuses liability and responsibility when people are injured? As a regulator of
pharmaceutical manufacturers, the TGA has a clear conflict of interest. Most of us have stopped
listening to legacy media as the Commonwealth have pushed its propaganda and its conflict of
interest and those of us who have university educations can see untruth when it's coming like a
rollercoaster via the media.

As clear scientific debate has not been allowed by the Commonwealth Government through the
funding of the media, the public has lost trust in the Commonwealth Government and the States as
the government is not putting the best interests of the public forward. Thus, we need a proper Royal
Commission into the COVID-19 response that keeps the Liberal and the Labour governments
accountable for their actions in that they have not been representing the best interests of the public.
