To whom it may concern

I wish to express my disappointment and disapproval of how the government, State and federal,
handled the Covid-19 response.

The Government used coercion, fearmongering, blackmail, discrimination, threats as well as public
humiliation of individuals who chose not to get vaccinated - to get people to get covid-19 injection,
which was never properly tested, was not effective and was not safe either. This Government's action
caused division in our community, marriage breakups, family breakups, loss of jobs, careers and
livelihoods, suicides, 50 000 excess deaths from ' unknown causes' since the Covidl9 injection was
introduced, as well as significant increase in the mental health issues across the population. It also
increased alcohol consumption, domestic violence, obesity and a multitude of other health related
issues.

Personally, I was affected in following ways: I was refused a medical treatment from the specialist
due to not being vaccinated, I was refused entre to the cafes and restaurant where I was invited to
celebrate special occasions, I was refused to attend friend's funeral, I was not allowed int eh hospital
to visit my ill friend, I was not allowed to travel, under the advise from the Government my friends
and family members did not invite me to their events due to my vaccination system (all of them had
covid multiple times since, and few of them have serious medical issues since they received covidl9
injection), under the government's propaganda against unvaccinated citizens my daughters became
estranged from my husband and me.

My private business suffered as a consequence of the lockdowns and vaccine mandates.

Our Government at both, State and Federal level, have failed to follow the science and have relied on
the unproven strategies and have implemented policies that have been harmful from the start of
pandemic. Our Government behaved like a dictators rather than a democratically elected
government who was supposed to serve Australian people.

Our Government has set up a Compensation scheme for those injured by the covid-19 injection. The
scheme is extremely difficult to navigate and access by those who have been injured. Our
Government has incentivised our Doctors to administer untested and unsafe covidl9 injection. SO
those doctors were not acting in the best interest of patient but the best interest of themselves. Our
Government has actively discouraged medical professionals from reporting injuries caused by
covidl9 injections.

Our Government was not transparent about the deals and agreements it had with vaccine
manufacturers. Our government failed to ensure that the covidl9 injections that were given to
people were safe and effective.

Our Government should be held accountable for the failures, and should be investigated.

I believe we should have a Royal Commission into Covid response. Those responsible need to be held
accountable, those who ended up with lots of money by administering unsafe and untested products
promoted as safe and effective covidl9 vaccines - should return the unethically earnt money.

Bring on Royal Commission!



Your Sincerely
