                   FECCA

Federation of Ethnic
Communities7 Councils
of Australia


Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response
Inquiry



15 December 2023




FECCA pays its respects to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Elders past and present and recognise the land we
live and work upon was never ceded. FECCA proudly supports the Uluru Statement from the Heart.

FECCA acknowledges that our work on behalf of multicultural Australia has learnt from and been enriched by First
Nations peoples and organisations. We are committed to continuing to listen, learn and support First Nations
peoples in the Journey to a more inclusive society.
Who we are
The Federation of Ethnic Communities' Councils of Australia (FECCA) is the national peak body
representing people from multicultural communities and their organisations across Australia.
Through the membership of state, territory, and regional councils and their members, we represent
over 1,500 community organisations.


The Australian Multicultural Health Collaborative (the Collaborative) is the national multicultural
health peak body.


What we do
For over 40 years, FECCA has proudly worked alongside culturally and linguistically diverse
communities, the broader Australian society and government to build a successful, productive, and
inclusive multicultural Australia where everyone, no matter their background or how long they have
lived in this country, has the opportunity to belong and reach their full potential.


FECCA draws on the lived experience of Australia's culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD)
communities and the expertise of its extensive and diverse membership to develop and promote
inclusive, innovative, and responsible public policy that reflects the needs and perspectives of
multicultural Australia. We are committed to building a strong, innovative, and inclusive nation that
harnesses its greatest strength, the diversity of its people.


The Collaborative is an initiative of the Federation of Ethnic Communities' Councils of Australia
(FECCA) and is led by an Interim Coordination Group reflective of the membership. The Collaborative
provides a national voice, leadership and advice on policy, research, data, and practice to improve
access and equity, address systemic racism, and achieve better health and wellbeing outcomes for
Australians from multicultural backgrounds.


The Collaborative is representative, and membership based. Members include consumers and carers;
health services and wellbeing/social care services; practitioners; and researchers. The Collaborative
also welcomes as affiliates other national health peak organisations.


Foreword
FECCA and the Collaborative thanks the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
(the Inquiry) for the opportunity to provide the insights, expertise, and experiences of people from
CALD backgrounds on lessons learned to improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics. In
our submission, we have made a reflection on the Commonwealth Government's response to the
COVID-19 pandemic and made recommendations to better target future responses to the needs of
CALD populations in the event of future pandemics.


For inquiries, please                                                                         or
on ■




                                                                                                        2
Background
The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) a Public Health
Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020 and a worldwide pandemic on 11 March
2020. Australia reported the first case of COVID-19 in the country in late January 2020 and initiated
public health measures to reduce the spread of the virus in March 2020. One of the early measures
put in place was closure of the Australian border to non-residents from 20 March. Subsequent
measures were largely introduced by individual state and territory governments and included
restrictions on movements across state and territory borders, as well as social distancing
requirements and restrictions on social and economic activity. All jurisdictions maintained at least
some restrictions throughout the pandemic with considerable variations.


The pandemic and subsequent lockdowns and restrictions impacted on various spheres of life
including health, economic, social, education among others. The pandemic also amplified among
others, the unpreparedness and weaknesses in infrastructures, supply chains, government
preparedness and actions, human resources, and public health systems1.


People from multicultural backgrounds in Australia have been affected by persistent health inequities
and barriers to access timely information and healthcare, as exposed by the COVID-19 response 2,3,4
5 6
 / ■
The Fault Lines Report7, an independent review into Australia's response to COVD-19 highlighted
significant issues for multicultural Australians:
      •       at the national level with:
              o   engagement with multicultural communities
              o   communication of health messages
              o   vaccines uptake
              o   significantly higher mortality rates for overseas-born Australians from non-English
                  speaking countries.
      •       at the State/Territory level with:
          o   disparate and inequitable enforcement of lockdown measures.


Data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics COVID-19 by Mortality Wave demonstrated that:
          o   70% of people in Australia who died during the COVID-10 delta wave were overseas
              born.
          o   Overall, during the pandemic, overseas born people died at twice the rate than the
              Australia born.
          o   Middle East-born Australians died at seven times the rate of the Australia-born.




                                                                                                        3
Reflections on the Commonwealth Government's response to the COVID-19
pandemic
This reflection draws on studies and feedback from CALD communities and addresses the following
specific areas; governance, health response measures and broader health supports for people
impacted by COVID-19 and or lockdowns.


    1)       Governance
The formation of the National Cabinet was commendable and was seen as an effective response to
the pandemic in Australia. The COVID-19 public health crisis was effectively managed by drawing on
the powers, knowledge, and capacities of both the Commonwealth and the States, achieving a
balance between collective action and tailored responses8. Non-essential businesses and activities
were shut down and restricted and Australians were urged to stay at home. While these measures
were increasingly accepted by people living in Australia at the start of the pandemic, extended
lockdowns (some extreme and strictest in the world9) resulted in family separations, anxiety,
loneliness, and loss of jobs. Temporary visas holders - often employed in low-paid, essential jobs -
were ineligible for the government's pandemic welfare support, leaving many in vulnerable
positions. These had a negative impact on social cohesion.


FECCA strongly advocated for community-informed COVID-19 response and subsequently the
Department of Health and Aged Care established the national Culturally and Linguistically Diverse
Communities COVID-19 Health Advisory Group which achieved, through its subgroups:
    •    Significantly improved quality of translated materials through FECCA's facilitation of testing
         translations for accuracy and cultural resonance with communities
    •    More effective communication and outreach through community-led and designed
         initiatives funded through the CALD COVID-19 Small Grants administered by FECCA.
    •    Amendments to the National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance system to include, in addition
         to the existing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander indicator, indicators relating to 'country
         of birth' and 'language spoken at home'.
    •    A data linkage project which measured vaccine uptake among speakers of languages other
         than English down to the local government area, assisting in targeting of messaging.


FECCA continues to provide advice to the Department about the COVID-19 pandemic from the lens
of CALD communities and commends the government for expanding the focus of this group to
broader health and wellbeing matters for multicultural communities.


    2)       Health response measures
The Government disseminated public health messaging around the symptoms of COVID-19 and
protective behaviours, but this message did not reach all Australians in a timely manner. During the
COVID-19 pandemic, distrust in public health bodies emerged from poor quality or delayed
translation of materials, the omission of some languages from translated resources and conflicting
messages from different sources. This environment also facilitated the spread of misinformation
about the pandemic, restrictions, and possible cures, which were disseminated by susceptible
members of CALD communities, as well as the general public.




                                                                                                            4
FECCA welcomed the move by the Department to create a CALD COVID-19 Health Small Grants Fund
that continues to support multicultural community organisations to lead and undertake targeted
grassroots communication activities to increase uptake of COVID-19 vaccine within a wide range of
CALD communities, including so-called 'hard to reach' and new migrants to Australia. In addition to
FECCA's participation in the CALD COVID-19 Health Advisory Group and vaccination statistics from
the Data Working Group, we were able to identify priority language groups that needed support
with COVID-19 vaccination campaigns and communities who were unvaccinated. FECCA initiated
involvement with these communities through the Small Grants project, providing support for them
to conduct their own vaccine campaigns.


FECCA provided feedback and insights from CALD communities to the Government on barriers to
accessing the vaccine through the CALD COVID-19 Health Advisory Group. The Small Grants project
helped build trust in the collective good of the COVID-19 vaccine roll-out by allowing communities to
be at the core of communicating about this urgent public health intervention.


    3)       Br ader health support
FECCA commends the Government for availing the COVID-19 vaccination to everyone in Australia,
even for those without Medicare card like international students and others on temporary visas. The
vaccine protected communities from severe illness and death from COVID-19 and those who
contracted the virus had milder symptoms. It was also commendable that the government made
available free PCR testing for everyone living in Australia regardless of their citizenship status. The
testing enabled COVID-19 cases to be identified early and was a critical component of the 'test',
'trace', 'isolate' and 'quarantine' (TTIQ) framework10, aimed at reducing community transmission of
COVID-19. Vaccination and PCR testing protected the most vulnerable persons by minimising the risk
of serious illness, hospitalisation and death from COVID-19.


The strict measures imposed on aged care facilities that restricted visitors and resident movements
and making it a requirement for staff to be fully vaccinated (flu and COVID-19 vaccine), return a
negative PCR test prior to returning to work and wearing PPE played an important role in minimised
the risk of outbreak in the facilities.


RECOMMENDATIONS
FECCA makes the following recommendations to better target future responses to the needs of
people from CALD communities.


    A. Creating an inclusive public health emergency-ready policy framework and healthcare
         system
It is vital that Government puts in place systems and policies that adopt a whole-of-government
approach, evidence-based, understand the social determinants of health, and embed inclusive
principles that reflect Australia's highly-diverse and multicultural population.


Recommendation 1: Continue supporting the Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Communities
COVID-19 Health Advisory Group
As discussed above, the Advisory Group effectively mobilised key CALD stakeholders which continues
to provide critical advice and inputs on broader health issues affecting CALD communities. Such

                                                                                                          5
platforms create strong networks and builds knowledge of both government and communities
necessary to be effective in addressing future public health emergencies.


Recommendation 2: The Australian Centre for Disease Control (ACDC) to establish a standing
advisory mechanism specifically for Australia's multicultural communities.
Given the important role of the ACDC in steering Australia's future response to communicable
diseases (including pandemics) and to non-communicable diseases, the ACDC should establish a
standing advisory mechanism to ensure that its responses include comprehensive communication
and engagement with Australia's multicultural communities. This would be best achieved in
partnership with FECCA and the Collaborative.


Recommendation 3: Build data on CALD populations for evidence-based public health
preparedness and response.
FECCA recommends establishing a link between health and non-health data for CALD populations. It
is crucial to consistently gather data on the factors that influence service provision within CALD
communities while ensuring the diversity within CALD communities is captured. Such comprehensive
data on CALD populations is vital for grasping the disparate impact of emergency events and
response measures. This information enables the development of responsive, tailored interventions
to mitigate these impacts. Without accurate and adequate data, these communities risk becoming
invisible, making it increasingly challenging to address their unique needs.


Recommendation 4: Implement inclusive health system orientation programs.
The inherent complexity of the health system is compounded by the absence of established
relationships with healthcare providers, adding an extra layer of difficulty11. This challenge is
particularly pronounced among newly arrived migrant communities, who lack established networks
and community organizations that could provide support. FECCA advocates for the implementation
of inclusive orientation programs that specifically target new permanent migrants and aim to
facilitate their integration into the healthcare system. Such inclusive initiatives become especially
crucial during crises when individuals need to navigate government systems to access critical
services and information.


Recommendation 5: Provide ongoing mental health support for CALD communities.
People from CALD backgrounds have been profoundly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, with a
majority of its members reporting worsened livelihoods and mental health during the pandemic12.
Worse mental wellbeing exacts a huge individual and family price and a significant economic
toll. Those with psychological vulnerabilities and pre-existing mental illnesses are particularly at risk,
and the heightened demand for mental health services is expected to persist throughout the
recovery phase11. FECCA is therefore recommending proactive government engagement with CALD
communities to provide essential ongoing mental health and well-being support. This approach
ensures a more comprehensive and culturally sensitive response to the unique challenges faced by
CALD communities in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Mental health issues, stemming either directly or indirectly from COVID-19, have consistently
 emerged as a prevalent theme in feedback from CALD communities. This observation is derived
 from insights gathered during FECCA's in-person CALD community consultations and the reports
 submitted through the Small Grants initiative by various communities.

                                                                                                         6
    B.      Ensuring culturally appropriate and community-driven communication and          utreach.


Recommendation 6: Improve communications through codesign.
While the Government initially had a range of public health communication to reduce the spread of
COVID-19, concerns were eventually raised around failure to consider CALD communities in these
critical communications. In order to keep their community safe, CALD community leaders felt
obligated to assume many roles such as translating and repacking complex health messages and
disseminating these through preferred channels with the support of a pool of trusted volunteers.


Community leaders reported that having key messages delivered by respected members of the
community also contributed to building trust for the vaccines. Federal and state-level governments
need to involve community led organisations during crises in codesigning and delivery of targeted
messages in a timely and in a culturally appropriate manner, taking into consideration the diversity
in language, culture and ethnicity present within CALD populations.


Recommendation 7: Establish cc irdinated, consistent, and trusted communication.
Building trust with CALD communities is paramount, and this can be achieved by disseminating
information through trusted intermediaries, such as medical and public-health experts13. Tailoring
such messages to the specific behavioural drivers of each community is crucial for effectiveness14.
During the height of the pandemic, regular press briefings on restrictions and updates significantly
alleviated uncertainty and anxiety within communities. To ensure communication clarity and
effectiveness, testing of messages should be conducted where possible.


The establishment of CALD community reference groups is also recommended to provide ongoing
input into decisions that affect them, ensuring representation of Australia's demographic and
sociocultural diversity13. Recognizing the prevalence of information gaps being filled by overseas
sources through social media during the pandemic, the importance of regular, open, and honest
communication is underscored. Such communication serves to inform without inducing fear,
encourages personal responsibility for the common good, and addresses uncertainties by providing
pragmatic and mental preparation for the immediate and longer-term future2.


    C.      Strengthening the language supitort ecosystem


Recommendation 8: Provide timely and effective language supp rt.
FECCA strongly recommends that the Government takes proactive measures to ensure the timely
provision of accurately translated information to communities. This involves developing and
reviewing source documents with input from the target communities before translation, ensuring
linguistic accuracy, cultural appropriateness, and community relevance. To enhance accessibility,
alternative formats such as audio and videos should be considered wherever possible. The
Department has already demonstrated a commitment to improving messaging through
consultations and the use of simplified messages.




                                                                                                       7
Acknowledging the vital role of community feedback in building trust, the Government should
remain responsive to community input, fostering a sense of being heard and valued. Additionally,
there is a critical need for the Government to provide support to communities in accessing and
navigating government websites, ensuring that information is readily available and easily accessible
to all.


 Language and translation issues were a significant concern identified in many of the reports from
 COVID-19 Small Grants projects and in our consultations. The translated information about
 COVID-19 and vaccines early in the pandemic were often not easily accessible or had translation
 errors. Even in some of the widely spoken languages in Australia, basic errors persisted and was
 worse in new and emerging languages. Over the course of this project, FECCA continually
 provided advice to the Department of Health on their communications based on the languages
 spoken by FECCA staff and feedback from the communities. FECCA acknowledges the complexity
 of public health communication when the message can change week to week. This is a challenge
 that may not be completely resolved with the diverse range of languages spoken in Australia.


FECCA worked extensively with Australian Institute of Interpreters and Translators (AUSIT) to
develop recommendations for a Community Review Panel and ensure the quality of translated
material from the Department. Having performed a scoping review and a trial of a Community
Review Panel in Arabic, Chinese, and Spanish, AUSIT developed translation guidelines and
recommendations. Although FECCA acknowledges that not all the recommendations were feasible,
some of their recommendations required less effort and resources. One of the recommendations
was to have better briefs to the language service providers to ensure they are aware of the target
audience. According to the findings of AUSIT's reports and trial, these small changes could have large
impacts on the quality of translations.


Recommendation 9: Improve accessibility of hotline services.
FECCA recommends that the government establishes hotline services operated by bilingual and
bicultural teams and health professionals to offer essential in-language information during a crisis.
Having such a service would contribute to a reduction in information gaps, ensuring that CALD
communities have continuous access to critical information. Given the dynamic nature of the
pandemic marked with widespread misinformation, this service will provide extra support for CALD
communities.


     D.     Building community capability for public health emergencies


Recommendation 10: Create coi dinated response from the government that is inclusive of
community perspectives and lived experiences.
FECCA recommends that governments engage CALD communities and people with lived experience
in making decisions that would affect them, and that the decisions are communicated with openness
and honesty, while explaining why particular actions are essential or challenging and the rationale
for decisions made. Policies that are inclusive of community and lived experience perspectives build
trust and strengthens social cohesion which are crucial during public health crisis.




                                                                                                        8
 The Small Grants Fund project is a notable example of government support that has played a
 crucial role in fostering trust within multicultural communities towards the Government and the
 Australian health system. For many organisations, this was their first time engaging with
 Government agencies, offering a valuable platform to voice their concerns and actively contribute
 to solutions. The resulting community-Government engagement played a pivotal role in building
 trust in vaccination messaging, motivating communities to proactively receive the jab. This
 initiative also facilitated enhanced community engagement both within and between different
 communities. FECCA organised sharing webinars where organisations could discuss their projects,
 sharing both their successes and challenges. Representing diverse countries, cultures, languages,
 and religions from around the world, organisations from all corners of Australia came together
 with a shared sense of purpose. Some even forged connections and collaborated to address
 common challenges.


Recommendati n 11: Invest in building the capability of communities and health providers to
provide culturally appropriate health services.
FECCA recommends that the Government enhance the capacity of community leaders during non­
crisis periods to ensure their readiness to offer coordinated and systematic support in future crises.
This involves training community leaders to enhance their knowledge, skills, and confidence in
effectively communicating about pertinent issues. Emphasis should be placed on capacity building
regarding the community leaders' role in disseminating information, conducting difficult
conversations with community members, and addressing misinformation. It is imperative to provide
community leaders and stakeholders with dedicated access to expert advice during such a time. A
key lesson from the Small Grants Fund project was also the invaluable role of peer-to-peer learning
during a crisis.


Additionally, there is a necessity to bolster the capacity of health providers to deliver culturally
appropriate health services. Given the diverse and heterogeneous nature of communities, this
requires diplomacy, strong communication skills, and an understanding of contextual factors crucial
for building trust before any information sharing or action is initiated. Furthermore, there is a need
to prepare and train the next generation of health providers, including medical students, to confront
real-world challenges at the intersection of environmental, animal, and human health.


Recommendation 12: Strengthen community centred approaches to health emergencies.
Throughout the pandemic, FECCA collaborated with CALD communities who had self-mobilised in
response to COVID-19. CALD community leaders not only translated and interpreted the health
messaging but also rallied their community members to undergo testing, receive the COVID-19
vaccine, and adhere to other preventive measures. Recognising and appreciating this valuable asset
within communities and understanding what drives their effectiveness present new opportunities to
bolster public health responses 15. Viewing communities as diverse entities with intrinsic strengths
and expertise, capable of developing valuable solutions, is essential. CALD community leaders played
a crucial role in advocating for public health safety behaviours and ensuring coordinated access to
vaccination appointments for community members. In light of these experiences, FECCA strongly
recommends that the government reinforces community-centred approaches to health emergencies
and other crises.



                                                                                                         9
1 Filip, R.; Gheorghita Puscaselu, R.; Anchidin-Norocel, L.; Dimian, M.; Savage,W.K. Global Challenges to Public Health Care
Systems during the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Review of Pandemic Measures and Problems. J. Pers. Med. 2022,12,1295.
https://doi.org/ 10.3390/jpml2081295

2 Weng, Enqi, Mansouri, Fethi and Vergani, Matteo 2021, The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on delivery of services to
CALD communities in Australia, Alfred Deakin Institute for Citizenship and Globalisation, Deakin University, Geelong, Vic..
https://apo.org.au/sites/default/files/resource-files/2021-08/apo-nid313720.pdf, accessed 29 November 2021
3 Mac OA, Muscat D, Ayre J, Patel P. McCaffery KJ. Coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccination information must pay attention to
health literacy: analysis of readability of official COVID-19 public health information. Med J Aust 2021;
https://www.mia.com.au/journal/2021/coronavirus-covid-19-vaccination-information-must-pav-attention-health-literacy
4 Tsirtsakis, A. How is race affecting COVID-19 outcomes? May 2020
5 Clibborn, S., & Wright, C. F. (2020). COVID-19 and the policy-induced vulnerabilities of temporary migrant workers in
Australia. The Journal of Australian Political Economy, (85), 62-70.
https://search.informit.org/doi/10.3316/agispt.20200701032596
6 Australian Bureau of Statistics 'COVID-19 Mortality in Australia' Australian Bureau of Statistics accessed 3 March 2022,
https://www.abs.gov.aU/articles/covid-19-mortalitv-australia#death-due-to-covid-19-countrv-of-birth
7 Shergold P, et al. Fault Lines - An independent review into Australia's response to COVID-19. October 2022
8 https://government.unimelb.edu.au/ data/assets/pdf file/0011/3443258/GDC-Policy-Brief-2 National­
Cabinet final01.07.2020.pdf
9 https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/oct/02/how-melbournes-short-sharp-covid-lockdowns-became-the-
longest-in-the-world
10 https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0263597
11 Healthcare issues facing migrants and refugees in Australia | SBS News
12 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34208243/
13 Hyland-Wood, B., Gardner, J., Leask, J. et al. Toward effective government communication strategies in the era of COVID-
19. Humanit Soc Sci Commun 8, 30 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-020-00701-w
14 Enhancing-supporting-COVID-19-vaccination-program.pdf (unsw.edu.au)
15 WHO (2021d) Community-centred approaches to health emergencies: progress, gaps and research priorities.
<https://cdn.who.int/media/docs/default-source/blue-print/who-covid-19-social-science-in-outbreak-
report_15.08.21.pdf?sfvrsn=ddbb00b3_9&download=true> (accessed 8-December 2023).




                                                                                                                          10
