                                                                                       Kellie Bolton-Baker




14 December 2023



Re: Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission



Firstly, I would like to start by saying I like many millions of Australians believe this Covid-19 Response
Inquiry to be a whitewash, in other words merely performative in function and absolutely nothing to
do with analysing and addressing the Government response to the pandemic.



To illustrate my point, the reason for this inquiry as stated is to "inform recommendations that aim to
improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics". This statement of itself makes it abundantly
clear that Government does not want to scrutinise its own behaviour which in my opinion,
significantly contributed to worse outcomes for the lives of Australian citizens.



The decisions made by Government during the pandemic damaged and destroyed countless lives;
prevented people from been with loved ones in their final stages of life, leaving them to die
alone. This of itself, I consider is morally reprehensible and beyond my comprehension how any
human could do this to another, no matter the circumstance. The enforcement of a novel medical
injection on perfectly healthy people, both adults and children, to protect the elderly is
representative of a government that has gone disastrously wrong in my opinion.



It is my understanding that Australia signed onto the International Treaty of Bioethics and Human
Rights back some years ago and article 6.1 states, you cannot force someone to undergo a medical
intervention with the threat of discrimination or prejudice. Clearly this declaration is not worth the
paper it is written on when government destroys people's livelihoods simply because they do not
wish to participate in the "world's largest medical experiment" (in the words of former Health
Minister Greg Hunt). The Governments disregard for a humane response was disgusting at best and
some might say, disturbingly authoritarian. As I understand it, Australia already had a pandemic
preparedness policy developed under former PM Tony Abbott, none of which was adhered to and in
fact, it was discarded like dirty toilet paper in favour of communist China's lockdown approach.



I consider that a Royal Commission is the absolute minimum benchmark for review of the pandemic
response which is a reasonable expectation in view of the multiple pre-election promises by the
Albanese government. Federal Government abdicated responsibility for managing the Covid-19
response by extending those powers to the premiers, and so I consider the exclusion of unilateral
actions of state and territory is a fundamental failing by those we elected to represent the values and
best interests of every Australian citizen.



The terms of reference should include but most certainly not limited to:

    •    How the decisions and policies that were implemented during the Covid-19 response have
         impacted on the current cost of living crisis.
    •       Why was there such disregard for a humane response?
    •   Why did government censor content on social media platforms, attempting to appoint itself
        as the ministry of truth?
    •   What was the impact of this censorship in terms of preventing early treatment of Covid-19?
             o How many people died because of not receiving early treatment? Ivermectin was
                FDA approved for human use in the 1960's and has a clinically proven history to be a
                highly effective treatment with minimal side effects. And yet, blatant lies were
                perpetrated to label it as horse de-worming treatment.
    •   Why did the Australian Government deliberately scaremonger its citizens by revealing Covid-
        19 case statistics everyday for what seemed like an eternity. Case data on virus's has been
        collected for decades but has never been used to terrify Australian citizens.
    •   Why is that now Australia is experiencing excess deaths since 2021, reaching a peak of 20%
        at one point in 2023 (ABS statistics and Our World in Data) and there now seems to be
        crickets from the Australian Government and mainstream media?
    •   Finally, why is the aim of Government now to improve Australia's preparedness for future
        pandemics but not to identify the damage that has been done, now and in the future, to
        countless lives because of disastrous public health policies?

Checks, systems and controls need to be identified, vigorously challenged and then implemented to
ensure that no government can ever trample over and violate human rights as was done by the
Australian Government during the Covid-19 response. It is incumbent upon this panel overseeing the
inquiry to ensure the facts are exposed and that people are held personally accountable for their
decisions that resulted in the violation of human rights and the ensuing damage that was done to
countless Australian lives.



I truly do not expect this inquiry has been established to scrutinise any of the points I have raised and
as previously stated, it is merely performative in function. I hope to be proved wrong.



Yours truly,

Kellie Bolton-Baker
