I think the Australian government urgently needs to address the following matters of concern via a
Royal Commission:

   -   The appalling discriminatory vaccine mandates. Why did the government go against all
       previous vaccine policies to mandate taking an experimental vaccine? I personally know of
       people who have had their lives ruined by this vaccine. Where is the accountability?
   -   Mask Mandates. My government (Tasmania) couldn't provide me with one single piece of
       science backing their mask mandates. I, however, could provide them with numerous
       scientific studies demonstrating that masks are both useless and harmful to people's health
   -   The people of Australia as a whole and Victoria especially need answers on lockdowns. I
       think it has become clear that lockdowns caused untold damage to people's lives and
       livelihoods. The data from Sweden clearly demonstrates that lockdowns were a complete
       farce.
   -   The government needs to justify the information that they spouted during the pandemic,
       information that is now demonstrably false such as that the vaccine will stop transmission
       and will stop infection. Everyone I know who took the vaccine also caught COVID.
   -   The government needs to recognise vaccine injuries and provide compensation. The current
       compensation scheme is completely inadequate.
   -   The Australian people also need an explanation as to why the medical profession was
       silenced on the issue of Covid, vaccines and vaccine injuries. I personally know a doctor who
       works in an Emergency Department who saw people including CHILDREN present with live
       changing injuries from the vaccine.
   -       Why did the government not follow the Australian Health Management Plan for pandemics?
   -       On a personal note I would like to express that I no longer trust my government. A full Royal
       Commission would go some way to regaining some trust from me.
