I would like to address the COVID Enquiry as a normal and average Australian. Australia could have
been an example for the world by embracing Ivermectin as the very low cost, broad spectrum
treatment of this MINOR disease! 99.7% of people recuperate from COVID - it is NOT the super
scary deadly pandemic disease as it was said to be in the media! Nor did we need to spend
absolutely billions of taxpayer money on 5+ doses of the experimental MRNA vaccine for every
Australian. Right now the vaccination of ALL Australians for COVID needs to be stopped! We are
seriously maiming our kids and our population with ALL this vaccination - not just the COVID
vaccine. The chart showing people who are vulnerable to COVID is those mainly over the age of 75 -
who are also plagued with all sorts of other age related troubles not just COVID. The medical
community seems to have forgotten that we have an immune system that is designed to grow
stronger and better facing germs coming at us. We don't need vaccinations which tend to weaken
the immune system and cause huge issues because of the ingredients it contains which affect the
brain and our deteriorate our immune system. Currently 1 in 30 of our children have autism - up
from 1 in thousands a couple of decades ago - with the only major difference being; massively
vaccinating our kids at a very young age with over 23 different things before the age of 3! It's the
time when their brains are growing the most in their lives. What is the matter with us Australia? We
need common sense once again to govern us, not only with this COVID inquiry but we are listening
to too many voices which defy wisdom.

Not only has the COVID vaccine shown to cause major heart issues in men younger than 35 years of
age, but add to this, auto immune diseases, increased rates of cancer, long COVID, as well as a host
of other awful diseases. We have an epidemic of young girls' worldwide getting Turrets syndrome
which was spun off by the media as influenced TikTok. Again this was completely untrue because
Turrets is neuro functioning which only occurs when the brain misfires and is brought on quickly by
vaccination. The media has done great damage by spreading lies and misinformation and continues
to do this, which is terrible because it spins a certain dialogue not based on facts or proper science.

Our medical association pushed a protocol for doctors that only supported vaccination, even though
it was totally wrong and much worse for our health as a whole. Doctors who disobeyed the
Australian Medical association mandates faced disciplinary action and loss of registration which
basically silenced them. Nurses, health care workers, fire fighters, police and aviation personnel all
had the vaccines forced on them, or they would lose their jobs! If one defied what was dictated by
the state and national government, then they were fired. One pilot we know - was fired for not
taking the mandated shots - slotted as "gross insubordination" which meant he could never be a
pilot again - it is just SO wrong. Again insanity - and he can't get his job of over two decades back
even though many pilots are dying in the cockpit currently from heart attacks caused from taking the
vaccine. My daughter, a nurse with a heart defect - her valve does not close properly - was forced
to take the vaccine to keep her job. So with four young kids and a mortgage, she took it and had a
terrible reaction - like a stroke - was medi flown to Toowoomba hospital from Roma. Yet still was
required to take the second dose to keep her job - again this IS totally unethical by the state
government to enforce this! Especially when 99.7% of people recuperate from COVID! With all the
evidence out there - what the hell is the medical community still doing and media who all promote
multiple COVID vaccinations to stay healthy? This whole mess of our pandemic response is TOTALLY
against our democratic rights as people to decide what is best for us and our immediate family! It
should be WITHOUT fear of losing our jobs, or being fined, or socially ostracized, if we think
otherwise. Many in the medical and research field are now trying massively to get the word out that
these vaccinations are terrible for our overall health. WHY are we still vaccinating our kids? They
have little to no affect from COVID but the vaccine itself kills and maims, and spreads the disease
from shedding. STOP the child vaccination of COVID immediately!
The WHO gave protocols like masks, isolation, and massive vaccination when it was the vaccines
which shed and caused hundreds of thousands to not only get sick and die but spread this minor
disease as well. I shake my head at how stupid our government was at blatantly accepting the WHO
- at face value. And not looking at other cheaper alternatives, if this was a serious disease or not -
which it turned out not to be. The WHO has an agenda which is not to promote health but for the
world accept its dictations. Others, like^^H and the pharmaceutical companies who are rich and
are stakeholders promoting all this whole lying propaganda, have profit as their main motive with
world domination the goal I Currently we are willing as a country to sign up to the WHO protocols -
look what they have done to the world in the last few years! Why are we so stupid as to sign up?
Not only do we need individual freedoms to decide what is best for ourselves but we as a country
need the freedom to decide whether we will follow the WHO protocols or not, WITHOUT being
locked into a legal agreement!

Lastly is the forced isolation which has wreaked havoc worldwide - not only giving us deteriorating
health worldwide, but inflation, a housing crisis, lack of job security, permanent health concerns - all
of which hobble the economies. The wealth of the nations has gone to those promoting the
vaccines, so countries have incurred massive debt which has changed the way our society operates
in a negative way. Not only did suicide rates go up dramatically, but our kids have been physically
hurt from the vaccines unnecessarily. Many are really psychologically wounded as well from forced
isolation, and the continual bombardment of how scary our world is with germs! Mental health
issues in kids has never been greater. Social isolation never greater. DV and family breakups is
continuing to get higher. Overall a huge negative! What benefit did we actually get from all of this?
Nothing, we lost billions to the drug companies who have immunity over their RNA vaccines and
have just been granted a "free pass" to do whatever because they are now so rich that they are into
all levels of our economies so our democratic freedoms are seriously eroded because of what they
promote through their control of the media, pharmaceuticals and science itself because they fund
most of the biased research out there.

My two articles are from one of the worlds top heart and immunological researchers.



Thank you for hearing me.
