To COVID-19 Response Panel



Hello and good afternoon,

My name is Kevin and I have a big interest in wellbeing of all people, animals and environments and
would like to extend this interest into providing a quick response to COVID-19 response inquiry.

My response will be sectioned based upon the guiding areas for easier clarification and relationship.



Governance, including roles and responsibilities

Firstly, there were many reports that Australia knew about COVID at least 3 months before, why
wasn't all people from China, Wuhan blocked from coming into the country?

            , Information within                                  missions to Covid select committee
highlights many concerns as I have included a comment from 25th May 2020 below

https://concernedlawyersnetwork.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Harrison-submission-letter-to-
select-covid-19commitee.pdf

           Start Quote: "Upon examination, the Board Members of the NCCC do not appear to
           represent the interests of small business or 'everyday Australians'. Instead, they hold senior
           board positions of companies in mining, oil and gas, airlines, private hospitals,
           pharmaceutical companies, casinos, and superannuation giants. One member is a billionaire.

           Another was recently accused of being 'an international tax dodger' by an Australian
           Senator. Another Chairs an international organization at the forefront of brokering private­
           public partnerships and garnering billions in taxpayer dollars to fund Covid-19 vaccine
           development. The Morrison Government's choice of NCCC board members, and the glaring
           omission of any member who could be said to represent small business or employee unions,
           is a farcical premise of 'mitigating the economic and social effects' of Covid-10". End Quote.

This truly highlights a loss of trust and accountability with Federal governments and playing out this
extremely important event as a game of business and big business. All members of any committee
for Government should be voted in by the people. That way harder for the mates, friends and
lobbyists to have the bank accounts and pay packages increased.



Broader health and social supports

Firstly, within a pandemic as it has been called, all services should be called upon and guidance
provided back and force to states and territories and back towards federal governments to ensure
that all services are utilized. Why wasn't all Chinese Medical doctors, Naturopaths and
Homeopathic doctors utilized to assist in helping people along with nutritional advice that was
circulating around the world during 2020 / 2021 to offset COVID and diminish its affects so all
doctors and alternative could have assisted many patients to boost immunity to ward of potential
affects.
Secondly, Ivermectin was banned during early stages of COVID yet was fully available prior, TGA and
its partners should be held f              like governments for banning substances that they
already knew could assist and elevate many peoples sickness, suffering and spreading of COVID.



Community supports

People at all superficial levels of our communities and societies have potential to be responsible
enough to cater for their own health, Guidance should have been honored with COVID nutritional
advice as stated in previous section end of page. The community with Chemists, Doctors and
Alternative Chinese medical, naturopaths and homeopaths working together could have brought
the effects and percentages down therefore taking a load off the hospitals and emergencies
services.



Financial support for individuals

What was done was fine but maybe its source of where the money came from should not be
included in public debt. Australia regardless of economists and ^^Bnflationary games, can mint
its own money based on Commonwealth Constitution powers.



International polices to support Australians at home and abroad

International policies are a guide not law and never should be. Border closing to other countries is
fine but not any further.



Key health response measures

Firstly, why wasn't Ivermectin and many others endorsed since evidence was overwhelming prior to
COVID

                                 - COVAX-19 was ignored why wasn't an Australian designed and
manufactured vaccine used since government can spend all the peoples money overseas but not
support its local productions.   Shows Federal and states have people in power who are self­
invested.

Thirdly, why didn't they use Intravenous Vitamin C since this was advocated by Orthomolecular
Institute of America,                         etc. and if it didn't fully stop COVID it would have
boosted the humans immunity. Even if this was utilized just in Quarantine areas would have greatly
reduced the numbers and amount of time, resources and money required.

Fourthly, Homeopathy Vaccination Homeoprophylaxis also could have been used since BIASNESS
says following the Scientific method will never understand Homeopathy, but it works and many
trials maybe not clinical can endorse, so it should have been offered also to assist.
It is time for whatI wanted like many others is Full holistic health service where
all healing modalities from Western, Eastern, Indigenous, Energy medicine come together under a
new framework of health to work together to assist people in and out of hospitals, day surgery,
clinics etc.



Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular
populations

Everything should be bottom up not top down, there are far too many issues that top down thinks it
can fix but all it does is create laws, create boundaries and then ask services and businesses to work
at local areas to try and assist. Where there are money issues, resource issues and massive BIAS
issues with Natural or alternative medicine then all statistics will never fix or elevate the problems
fully.



Support for industry and businesses

When a pandemic or major health crisis occurs (Deliberate with COVID as evidence is truly
mounting) supply chains relying on overseas to supply in timely manner is stupid, unrealistic, shows
lack of trust, authenticity and accountability to the science and scientists in Australia if not some
people are making more money off this unfortunate event than anybody should.

With local manufactured Vaccines and Homeopathy Vaccination plus Intravenous Vitamin C and
others and support of all services as stated above, these are more localized so therefore transport,
delivery and logistics is easier to manage and easier to supply all people of state, the communities
etc.

Lastly WHY do we play international games when Australia has the knowledge, experiences,
knowhow, work ethics to already within country, states and communities.

Something is very wrong with our governments and it shows they are fully not accountable to the
people, something is very wrong with how all aspects of COVID management was done.



Thankyou



Kevin Woods
