                          aspenmedical


                           Wednesday, 13 December 2023


                           Ms Robyn Kruk AO
                           Chair
                           Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




                           Dear Ms Kruk,

                           On behalf of Aspen Medical, I'd like to formally acknowledge your appointment as
                           the Independent Chair of the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response
                           Inquiry.

                           Furthermore, we acknowledge that the Inquiry will consider health and non-health
                           responses to the pandemic, and Aspen Medical stands ready to assist you and your
                           team.

                           Over the past 20 years our Australian-owned company has specialised in providing a
                           broad spectrum of healthcare services wherever our clients have needed us, often in
                           challenging, remote or under-resourced environments globally. In 2018, we became
                           the only commercial organisation in the world to be accredited by the WHO as an
                           Emergency Medical Team for disease outbreak management and trauma surgical
                           operations after undertaking an extensive audit and in consideration of our previous
                           experience, such as providing medical assistance for the Ebola outbreak in West
                           Africa in 2014-15. We were proud to be able to use this extensive experience and
                           expertise to assist in the global COVID-19 pandemic response.

                           During the unprecedented pandemic, our team was involved in several critical
                           response around Australia including, but not limited to:

                           •   the establishment of 150+ GP-led respiratory clinics
                           •   the clinical administration of 600,000 COVID-19 vaccines to some of our most
                               vulnerable citizens - living in residential aged care facilities, people living with
                               disability, the homeless and remote First Nations communities
                           •   supplying personal protective equipment (PRE) to the National Medical Stockpile
                           •   the establishment of a mask manufacturing facility in Brisbane.

                          This was an extraordinary time in our lives.




                           2 King Street, Deakin,
                           ACT 2600, Australia                                      wherever you need us
                                                       W aspenmedical.com
                           ABN 32105 250 413

This document has been classified as Official
                           We note that Government and business responses were required to be considered,
                           but rapid, with information at times being incomplete.

                           As 2024 approaches, Aspen Medical acknowledges that many lessons have been
                           learnt throughout our global response - in the US, Japan, the UAE, and here at home.
                           Following many internal reviews, Aspen Medical has developed a range of insights
                           that we would be willing to share with the Independent Panel, if considered
                           appropriate.

                          To facilitate any inquiries or requests for information related to our role in the
                           COVID-19 response across Australia, we have designated Eamonn Quinn, Director -
                           Global Communications & Media as the point of contact for the inquiry. Eamonn can
                           be reached at

                           Aspen Medical remains committed to working with the Federal and State
                           Governments, as government and private industry learns and prepares for future
                           global pandemics.

                           We are open to collaboration that would contribute to the findings and
                           recommendations of the Inquiry.

                           Kind Regards,




                           Bruce Armstrong

                           Group Chief Executive Officer

                           Aspen Medical Pty Limited




                          aspenmedicaLcom

This document has been classified as Official
