I request a full Royal Commission for a proper investigation (and nothing less than this)
into:

   1.    Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts
   2. Vaccine mandates - which are in breach with Nuremburg Code and Hippocratic
      oath taken by medical doctors
   3.    Vaccine injuries and extra deaths - more than heartbreaking
   4.    Mask mandates and lockdowns
   5. Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to
      block infection and transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and
      gaslighting of the injured
   6. The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of
      the vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession.

Who decided to do the opposite of the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for
Pandemic Influenza, which prophetically described why all of the actions the
Government did take would not work and would cause hardship?

The action taken to address Covid-19 have created division within Australian people,
which exacerbated emotional stress and curtailed human rights of those who chose not
to vaccinate.

We can now truly see from the data and our own witnessing, that vaccines/mask
mandates, lockdowns and censorship of doctors created a devastating outcome for
Australian people and our economy, which heavily outweighs their (if any) benefits.

Lack of transparency, honesty, availability of full information/data, consultations with
Australian people, support for those injured by vaccine and their families is simply
unjustified, and so are double standards modelled by some members of parliament.

The safety of Covid ‘vaccines’ was ignored and scientific basis of what vaccine really is,
also.

Australian people place no restrictions on your freedom of speech or freedom of
information, so why are you avoiding to disclose the truth, which would also prevent
unethical actions still taking place and allow for validation of those being gaslighted by
you?
If you are not acting in the best interest of Australian people, in who’s interests are you
acting on (no pun intended).
