Submission to the Australian Government

Australian Government

Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet

11 December 2023

Submission: COVID-19 Response Inquiry

To introduce myself, I am                       I reside in Central Queensland^^^^^^^^B and have
lived and worked in this area since 1991. I am employed as a Work Health & Safety Specialist. This has
been my main vocation for the thirty plus years I have worked in construction, mineral processing,
logistics and service industries in the region. During that time, I have worked for a number of major
employers such as Bechtel, Rio Tinto, Gladstone Ports Corporation, Downer Engineering, UGL and
Cement Australia.

Over the last three and a half years I have closely observed/scrutinized both government and medical
recommendations as they pertain to the COVID "Pandemic." For many years I have had a deep interest
in personal health as it pertains to healthy eating, use of supplements and healthy lifestyle. Early in the
"pandemic" I was alerted to the fact that the recommended/prescribed protocols were ineffective and
even dangerous. The use of ventilators and drugs like Remdesivir are examples of those protocols Can
remdesivir cause kidney failure? How so and alternatives (medicalnewstoday.com). Early treatment was
suppressed Outcomes after Early Treatment with Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin: An Analysis of
30,423 COVID-19 patients (substack.com). Doctors were threatened if they attempted to prescribe off
label medicines and early treatments IVERMECTIN DECISION -TGA INCOMPETENCE HAS COST LIVES
(substack.com). A small number of medical professionals (worldwide) were brave enough to speak out
against the mandates and the government sponsored/recommended health protocols. This group were
labelled the "disinformation dozen." I must point out that several brave Australian medical practitioners
also spoke out. Sadly, some that I know have found themselves marginalized and their careers in tatters.

Majority of Covid misinformation came from 12 people, report finds | Coronavirus | The Guardian

Fortunately, I followed the advice of these types of breakaway professionals who were treated much like
Galileo when he was confronted by the church over his views regarding the earth's orbit.

I now find that I have waded through this crisis with my health intact but my view of big government,
corporations and the medical profession completely upturned.

I now note on a daily basis that the so called "safe and effective" and "recommended" government
pushed & sponsored health protocols are having a tragic effect on those who subscribed to this
narrative.

There are innumerable studies coming to light that show a great many diseases are being spawned by
the so called "vaccines" SC Senate Hearing - Dr. Janci Lindsay - YouTube ; BABIES who died after Pfizer or
Moderna COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine, Flu Vaccine, or died from SIDS - 25 Baby deaths presented (age 0-2)
(viewer discretion advised) (substack.com); SUMMER OF DIED SUDDENLY - Men ages 20-29: Sudden
deaths from June to Oct 2023 - 76 Tragic deaths - What is killing young COVID-19 Vaccinated men?
(substack.com)
I feel compelled to judge any future actions and powers that our government may bestow upon itself
with the recent failures and coverups of the past.

As a work health and safety professional I found myself confronted with health issues from colleagues
who informed me that they were suffering from "vaccine" related injuries. Some individuals explained
that these "vaccine" injuries were also confirmed by their health professionals. Most of these "vaccine"
injuries have likely gone unreported through our TGA DAEN reporting system.

It is for this reason I wrote as a 25-year WH&S professional to both Safe Work Australia as well as their
Queensland counterpart WorkSafe Qld. I advised the regulatory bodies that in my opinion they are
required to investigate COVID-19 vaccine adverse reactions/injuries as they relate to the Australian
workforce due to the fact that these protocols were both mandated and promoted by businesses.
Incident notification fact sheet (safeworkaustralia.gov.au). Noting that it is a serious offence not to
report any event/incident where a worker has suffered a serious injury/illness. The adverse reactions
which are now documented for all to see pose a real risk to the work force going forward.

These regulatory bodies decided not to investigate my reports and concerns other than supplying me
with a legalistic reply which left me totally disgusted with their lack of independent enquiry.

It must be remembered that throughout this "pandemic" the rarest commodity has been the truth. We
are still witnessing (December 2023) so called experts argue over the origins of COVID-19. Some of
Australia's leading medical/pharmacology experts have written reports such as the Altman report which
highlight key issues with the handling of the "pandemic" and highlight the dangers involved in rolling out
experimental medical treatments. Leading medical professors from the University of Queensland (e.g.,
Professor Wendy Hoy) have been outspoken about the dangerous health protocols forced on to the
public by Government and Corporate sponsors.

The Australian government (regardless of whether it is State or Commonwealth) has proven that it has
an agenda to grab power and fall under the influence of corporations and pressure groups who do not
have the interests of the public at heart. Unfortunately, some of us are acutely aware that history will
judge this era harshly.

Corruption - How Can l/l/e Trust Our Own Government?

Where I am at odds is where government attempts to investigate its own machinations and potential
corruption. If one searches on the internet one can find some of the most damning news articles (see
below) relating to both major parties and the influence of major corporations (pre-dating COVID-
19). One article alleges that Australian Government accepted eye watering amounts of money from
lobbyists at Party run BBQs in order to sidestep having to show those donations on the books. All these
big money transactions must have played a major part in the path the government took when
confronted with this so called "pandemic". I believe this corruption is closely related to the root cause
of the problem.

Who appointed the Royal Commission Commissioners, in other words how truly independent are these
representatives?

Australian government powerless against lobbyists with hidden interests, audit finds | Australia news |
The Guardian
$177 million flowed to Australian political parties last year, but major donors can easily hide
(theconversation.com)

Democracy before Dollars—the Problems with Money in Australian Politics and How to Fix Them -
Parliament of Australia (aph.gov.au)

Pharmaceutical industry donates millions to both Australian political parties | Pharmaceuticals industry
| The Guardian

Why the Pharmacy Guild is the most powerful lobby group you've never heard of - ABC News

How Pfizer is leaning on government to make Big Pharma even bigger (inqld.com.au)

Pfizer has power to 'silence' governments and 'maximize profits', consumer group alleges - ABC News



Yours sincerely
