                    The Australian governments response to the Covid pandemic

The worst case of government misuse of power in Australia’s modern history

In the early days of covid-19, there were several alarmist predictions about the catastrophic
consequences of the impact of the novel Coronavirus by the Imperial college London, comparing it
to the Spanish fluff]. However, once data became available, showing that it was much less severe,
nevertheless the Australian government persisted in its heavy handed policies. This led to a lot of
unnecessary hardship and even causing collateral deaths due to people not able to receive regular
medical care. Due to the ongoing excess deaths in Australia and around the world, it even appears
possible that the government’s illogical and ill informed persistence in its extreme pandemic
response ultimately caused more deaths than Covid itself. Specific details below...

The rigidly imposed mask mandates were very poorly implemented.
    •       no proper education on the correct use of masks and the reality of their low effectiveness,
    •       no education on the type of masks or the maximum length of time to continue to wear them
    •       no proper government education about the important principle of viral load
    • masks were also very low quality, containing volatile chemicals and other contaniments,
       that have been shown to have their own negative health impacts.

Overall masks failed in their objective in stopping people getting sick, and causing other health
issues.

A peer-reviewed in the journal of Epidemiology and Infection, analyzed mask use among 3,209
individuals from Norway and found that there was a higher incidence of testing positive for
CO VID-19 among people who used masks more frequently [6]:

Wfe examined the association between face mask use and the incidence of SARS-CoV-2
infection...Our findings suggest that wearing a face mask may be associated
with an increased risk of infection.

The suppression of safe medical treatments and rigidly imposed vaccine mandates

In the early days of covid-19, there were many hopeful treatments being developed, such as
Ivermectin. Oddly, the government suppressed these treatments in various ways, even though they
showed beneficial outcomes. For example, Ivermectin became only obtainable via prescription.
This was presumably done, to allow Emergency Use authorisation of the vaccines, as this cannot be
granted if there are viable treatments available. This then enabled the government’s simple minded
obsession with vaccines as the only viable solution.

As of December 2023, more than 12 months after Covid is officially over, there are still vaccine
mandates in many professions, such as nursing. This is despite the fact that the current strain of the
virus is very mild, like the common cold, and the vaccines are not even up to date with the most
recent strain. This is despite continued ramping at major hospitals presumably due to lack of staff,
but the government is still pushing nurses and doctors away by requiring vaccine mandates.

Hardship caused by border closures

There were tens of thousands of Australian citizens on waiting lists all over the world desperate to
return to Australia. However, during Covid, the government basically locked them out of their own
country. This was justified because of their bungling of the management of quarantine hotels.
Surely the government could have organised some decent quarantine accommodation for returning
Australians.

Within Australia, I have personally spoken to several people sleeping in their cars around Adelaide
car parks, for weeks at a time. These people were being forced to use community toilets with
limited hygiene and no heating. In their cases, they could not return to Victoria due to the border
closures. This is one more example of the general government mismanagement of community
health[4,5].

The general failure of the lockdown/vaccine/mask strategy worldwide

The failure of the worldwide lockdown, masking and quarantine policies, has led to many excess
Australian deaths overseas. In the Philippines, Australians are dying at several times the usual rate.
This extraordinary excess death rate is currently being investigated by the department of health, of
the Philippines government. The excess rate of Australian death is generally attributed to not being
able to get medical care due to various lockdowns, restrictions and mandates in the Philippines,
similar to Australia. This data on the excess deaths of Australians in the Philippines, for example, is
easily obtainable from the embassies but it does not appear to be being investigated [2,3]. The
Philippine experience starkly showing the failure of the lockdown/vaccine/mask strategy, and in
fact still producing an above average death rate.

References
1. IHME COVID-19 health service utilization forecasting team, Christopher JL Murray. Forecasting
CO VID-19 impact on hospital bed-days, ICU-days, ventilator-days and deaths by US state in the
next 4 months. medRxiv 2020, doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.27.20043752 .

2 De Filippo O, D’Ascenzo F, Angelini F, et al. Reduced rate of hospital admissions for ACS during
covid-19 outbreak in northern Italy. N Engl J Med 2020. doi:10.1056/NEJMc2009166.

3. Sud A, Jones ME, Broggio J, et al. Collateral damage: the impact on cancer outcomes of the
covid-19 pandemic. medRxiv 2020 (preprint).
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.21.20073833v2.full.

4. Moser DA, Glaus J, Frangou S, et al. Years of life lost due to the psychosocial consequences of
covid-19 mitigation strategies based on Swiss data. medRxiv 2020 (preprint).
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.17.20069716v3

5. loannidis JP. The totality of the evidence. Boston Review. In: http://bostonreview.net/science-
nature/john-p-ioannidis-totality-evidence , last accessed June 2, 2020.

6. Ingeborg H. Elgersma, Atle Fretheim, Petter Elstrom and Preben Aavitsland, Association between
face mask use and risk of SARS-CoV- infection: Cross-sectional study, Epidemiology and
Infection, 2023.
