SUBMISSION - COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID - 19 RESPONSE ENQUIRY




Firstly, I wish to say that as someone who resides in Melbourne, the Covid period was dreadful.




RE Governance, including roles and responsibilities.

Our State Government and in particular the Premier, Health Ministers, and so-called Immunologists,
drove fear into the population on a daily basis. They referenced the "Experts" and the "Science" ad
nauseum, but NEVER ONCE would respond to questions of exactly which "experts" and what
"science". They claimed the injections were SAFE AND EFFECTIVE, hundreds of times a day, and yet
they had absolutely no evidence of safety. And yet there was clear evidence of harm. Even TODAY
this ridiculous rhetoric continues and these Covid Vaccines, which are proven to harm, are still be
promoted.

The Media echoed the Government fear propaganda on a State and Federal basis. Always reaching
for the stick!

The measures taken to restrict movement and increase fear were extreme and can only be explained
as a method of control. NOT based on ANY scientific truth.

Army and Police checkpoints, Helicopters, Curfews, masks in the outdoors, Playgrounds closed, all
totally uncalled for and unjustifiable.

Our Government and Health Ministries are supposed to act for the BEST interests of the people of
Australia.

The TGA are supposed to closely assess and monitor drugs before allowing their use in Australia.

This means properly reviewing the pharmaceutical studies of experimental drugs and NOT making
indemnity agreements that leave no recompense for those adversely affected or killed by the mass
injection of so many. Virtually all of which were injected without proper informed legal consent.

It means fully understanding what was in each formula and what that might do in the human body. It
means properly testing each batch. It means not taking Pharma or the CDCs word for it, but properly
scrutinising what you intend to roll out to Australian arms.

Many test subjects died in the Vaccinated cohort of the Pfizer vaccines, and yet this was completely
ignored, or overlooked by our TGA. UNACCEPTABLE!!

Anyone with any sense should have known the risk of mass vaccination of populations, across all age
groups, utilising drugs which were only ever Provisionally approved! This is UNFORIVEABLE.




Re Mechanisms to better target future response to the needs of particular populations AND

Re Key Health Response measures.

Do NOT take directives from the WHO - they got it so terribly wrong, and DO NOT have global health
interests at heart. They are unelected and agenda driven. Australia should EXIT THE WHO.

Do NOT mass vaccinate populations. Insanity!
Do NOT mandate treatments.

Do NOT allow businesses or organizations to mandate.

Do NOT allow the administration of any medical intervention without FULLY INFORMED CONSENT.

Do NOT censor information that challenges the Party LINE. It is clear the Party Line brought great
damage and harm. Open debate and discussion should have been encouraged NOT silenced.

Do NOT close schools, playgrounds, churches, workplaces.




DO Identify and potentially isolate the vulnerable groups.

DO utilise ongoing International scientific findings and statistics from other countries as they evolve.

DO allow the sharing of information and education, both domestic and international, and from all
experts on all platforms.

DO insist on personal health autonomy of all Australians.

DO use interpreters and trusted community members to convey information where necessary.




Re Support for Industry and Business.

If fear had not been so greatly reinforced, people would have sensibly adjusted/pivoted, and
continued to conduct their retail, service, and trade exchanges.

Businesses would have held staff, accessed income, and life could have remained relatively normal.

Schools should have remained open. Children being the safest cohort to be around, teachers were
actually in one of the safest occupations.

Mandates drove staff and professionals out of their industries, leading to current nursing/medical,
teacher, & specialist shortages. Many of these people felt so unsupported and maligned that they
will never return to their vocations. Many have found employment in different areas, and for this
reason also, will never return to those vocations which are now desperate for staff.




Broader Health and Social Supports

Fully informed consent in ANY medical scenario is absolutely necessary and should NEVER have been
compromised.

The impact of closing schools and the isolation of lockdowns will be evident for decades in the
development and mental health of so many.

More funding for education and mental health needed.

More funding and effective support for Hospitals and staff.

Another pandemic, should one occur as "strangely" forecast, will compound the existing impacts of
the ill-conceived previous pandemic strategies.
