1. My understanding is that the national cabinet meeting minutes have never
   been released to the public. Why is this information not available for public
   viewing as it would add crucial discussion points to the inquiry?

2. Why did the Federal Government disclose that Covid vaccines would not be
   mandated, however;
       i. the commonwealth did mandate jabs for aged care,
      ii. the commonwealth enabled jab mandates with their data sharing
           arrangements with the states and vaccination databases, and
     iii. the commonwealth failed to act to protect the human rights of
           Australians from State and territory governments, and private business
           owners coercing and abusing their staff on the most basic of human
           rights, their bodily autonomy.

3. Why has the Federal Government not made public the contracts they have
   with Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Moderna? These products were paid for by the
   taxes of the Australia people and as such we demand they be made public.

4. I expect a full and detailed investigation into Vaccine injuries and deaths as I
   have friends and family who took the covid vaccine/s that have been adversely
   affected. To date, the medical establishment continues to bury their heads in
   the sand by deliberately avoiding discussions around vaccines causing many
   injuries and deaths. It has come to light that the potential repercussions from
   AHPRA and the Government, if the medical fraternity were to speak frankly
   against the narrative, could result in the suspension of their duties and job loss.
   This is unacceptable, and as well the Doctor /patient relationship, which was
   once sacrosanct, no longer is. This needs to be addressed immediately by
   allowing Doctors, physicians and the like, the autonomy to always put the
   patients' needs first, not their own interests or those of Government and
   AHPRA.

5. The inquiry must investigate the health effects of long-term mask usage in
   children and adults, compared to the benehts. My experience with mask
   wearing was it made me dizzy and anxious, yet I’ve never heard a government
   health representative disclose the potential side effects. Where was the risk
   assessment for all the unintended consequences of wearing a facial covering,
   surgical mask or N95 respirator mask without supervision or oversight, for
   many hours of the day? Mandatory masking of the population was an abuse of
   human rights, this cannot happen ever again.

6. I would like the inquiry to examine the Government misinformation in the
   media, specifically the mantra of “safe and effective” when the vaccines had no
   long term safety testing and were still in phase 3 trials when they were rolled
   out to the people, and further with the use of coercion via mandates. Why
   was there a need for the Government to create the Covid-19 Vaccine Claims
   Scheme if they were safe and effective? Because the Government knew they
   were not, yet they spruked ‘safe and effective’ constantly via the media and
   TNI (Trusted News Initiative). This was dishonest and at the very least
   unethical, as such heads need to roll. All Premiers and those with Health
   Portfolios, the Chief Health Officers of every state and territory during the
   Covid response, need to be made accountable, as well                  of the
   TGA.

7. Why did AHPRA suspend doctors that simply questioned the narrative of the
   vaccine rollout? Why did AHPRA hinder the free speech of the medical
   fraternity if they had a counter argument to the Government vaccine
   narrative? Science should always involve healthy debate, especially when the
   population of our entire country was impacted and affected. Why were the use
   of early treatment protocols banned and shut down, in some states such as
   Queensland, with the threat to Doctors who prescribed certain off label drugs
   with large fines and jail sentences? (eg. Hydroxychloroquine.)

8. Questions need to be asked and answered on why the Australian Government
   Immunisation Handbook rules were not followed? I personally know people
   who took the vaccine under extreme pressure of job loss, told the
   immunisation personnel at the time, yet this was ignored, and the vaccination
   administered to the patient under duress. These practitioners who
   administered vaccines under these circumstances were in derelict of their
   duty, and as such must be held to account.

9. Why are suspected vaccine injured people not treated with respect and
   comprehensive investigation by doctors? I know people that have had their
   concerns about their own vaccine injuries brushed aside without adequate
   investigation completed, often they’re told they have anxiety or depressive
   conditions when this is blatantly untrue. The Government is lacking in
   transparency and what reeks of a cover up of a failed vaccine campaign, and
   many Australians who are injured are being dismissed by the medical
   fraternity because of it. This is unacceptable and unethical.

10. What was realistically achieved by locking down highly populated state
    borders with regards to transmission of the virus? What is the long-term social
    impact of locking down the state borders? Under the Australian constitution
    was it legal to lock down State borders? I personally made the decision to
    resign from FIFO employment after being quarantined for 14 weeks in total
    due to interstate quarantine rules, and later vaccine mandated to return to site.
    Prior to the mandates, I was classed an essential worker and was able to
    perform my duties. The inquiry must evaluate how decisions such as these
    were accepted and enabled when there was neither logic nor scientific
    reasoning to support these recommendations and mandates.

 11. I wish to clearly state as a result of this botched Covid 19 response, I am
     unequivocally opposed to the Australian Government signing up to the
     International Health Regulations, and any Treaty with the World Health
     Organisation. We have our own experts in Australia and although to date
     they’ve proven underwhelming, and appear to be captured by pharmaceutical
     interests, we at least have the ability to vote in, or out our own so called
     ‘experts’ in this country, as such it is a firm NO to any treaty as this will simply
     allow the Australian Government to shift blame and have no accountability for
     their actions.

 12. Asa taxpayer of this country, I demand an investigation into the rise in all­
     cause mortality since the rollout of the MRNA vaccinations and lockdowns.

 13. The Governments intentions should be analysed for only giving the people of
     Australia 7 days to complete this submission. Considering the long-term
     effects of the Covid response, which will severely affect the health of the
     Australians who were injected with this experimental vaccine and for their
     offspring and generations to come. I have had to submit this with less detail
     than I would have liked, due to the obvious time constraints this Government
     has imposed. I demand nothing less than a Royal Commission into the Covid
     19 response.




Question 5 support information:
https://www.cochranelibrary.com/cdsr/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006207.pub6/full?
highlightAbstract=review%7Cmask
