              Submission to the COVID-19 Enquiry - Robert J Mathews


1. Introduction

As a brief word of introduction, I retired from Australia's Defence Science and Technology Group
(DSTG) in 2017 after a 50 year career. While my major career activities were associated with
supporting the Australian Government's chemical and biological disarmament objectives, I also
spent a substantial part of my career working with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and a
substantial part of my career supporting efforts aimed at the prevention of bioterrorism events, and
the medical community's response to bioterrorism events. This included working closely with
scientific and medical staff who are employed by relevant Australian government agencies and the
Australian Defence Force, as well as other agencies including the World Health Organisation (WHO),
INTERPOL, and the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (CDC) in Atlanta (US).

In this submission, I briefly describe my observations and reflections of some of the difficulties
experienced by the Federal Department of Health (DoH) in the handling of the Health Response
Measures, particularly during the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic (Sections 2 and 3). Based
on those difficulties, I recommend that the Enquiry Panel considers several proposals which I
consider will improve Australia's preparedness for future pandemics (Section 4).



2. Insufficient attention by Federal Department of Health to Future Health Challenges

I had been working with officers in the Federal Department of Health (DoH) on a range of
'biosecurity' issues since the early 2000s, in particular, since the 'reconstruction' of the Spanish Flu
virus in a laboratory in 2004) and the more recent gain-of-function research on potential pandemic
pathogens. This included my assisting the DoH in the development of the oversight procedures for
Australian laboratories working with Security Sensitive Biological Agents (SSBAs). In 2010, I was
invited by the US Government to participate in a US National Intelligence Council Workshop in
Washington on future global challenges. The unclassified report from that workshop referred to the
likelihood of a pandemic by 2030.1 The report expressed concern about rapid advances in genetic
engineering of pathogens and noted that "An easily transmissible novel respiratory pathogen that
kills or incapacitates more than one per cent of its victim is among the most disruptive events
possible". There was interest in these future health challenges when I subsequently discussed them
with DoH desk-level officers, but apparently less interest from senior DoH management, based on
the limited preparedness within DoH to respond to a major disease outbreak.



3. Apparent lack of appreciation within DoH of the Aerosol Transmission of Respiratory Viruses

By way of background, it had been known for decades within the Biological Defence and
Disarmament communities that airborne (aerosol) transmission is a major route for infection by
respiratory viruses. And this information became very clear to the medical and other health experts
working on the SARS-1 outbreak in 2003 and with more recent infections, including MERS. So I had
no doubt that there would be substantial levels of aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-2, which would


1      "Global Trends 2030: Alternative Worlds, a publication of the National Intelligence Council",
December 2012, p.13. [www.dni.gov/files/documents/GlobalTrends_2030.pdf ].
result in large numbers of infections unless appropriate Health Response Measures were adopted
taking the aerosol infection route fully into account.

So I was very surprised when I first heard medical experts from DoH, including the DoH Infection
Control Expert Group (ICEG), advising the public that there was no aerosol transmission of COVID-19
(except during certain medical procedures, such as intubation). And I was horrified in April 2020
when I first heard the DCMO of DoH advise the public not to wear facemasks as 'they are of no
benefit and could be dangerous'.2

This led to what turned into a letter writing campaign by me to Mr Hunt and the DoH (nine letters
between April 2020 and September 2021) on various aspects of the aerosol transmission of SARS-
CoV-2, the important role of facemasks as part of the overall Infection Minimisation Strategy, the
impact of aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-2 on the effectiveness of various types of facemasks in
different risk settings, and the impact of aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-2 on the city hotel based
quarantine facilities established early in the pandemic.3

For example, in a letter that I wrote to Mr Hunt in September 2020, I suggested that it would be
useful for the DoH to recruit additional ICEG members with expertise in aerosol science and PPE, and
for the ICEG to then review its recommendations with respect to aerosol transmission of SARS-CoV-
2, the wearing of particular types of facemasks in different risk settings, and the aerosol precautions
that would be necessary for a safe and effective quarantine facility. My suggestion was ignored by
the DoH.

Fortunately, when I wrote to the Victorian Department of Health and Human Services about these
matters in late June 2020, the Victorian officials did listen to my views and also to the similar views
that had been provided by a number of internationally recognised Australian academic scientists, as
well as a recently published petition signed by 239 eminent international scientists. This led the
Victorian Government to 'go beyond' the advice provided by the DoH and introduce the compulsory
wearing of facemasks on 22 July 2022. Other State Governments subsequently followed the lead
taken by Victoria by also going beyond the advice provided by the ICEG.

However, the apparent lack of awareness or appreciation of the airborne (aerosol) transmission of
SARS-CoV-2 by the ICEG resulted in the ICEG continuing to provide inappropriate advice, guidance
and recommendations regarding the wearing of respirators and facemasks by the health-care
workers, aged care workers, and the general community, which some experts have argued resulted
in considerably greater numbers of infections within the various sectors, including in the hotel
quarantine facilities.




2         I was subsequently advised by a former Canberra colleague that in March 2020 there was a shortage
of high quality P2/N95 facemasks in the National Medical Stockpile, as most of these masks had been used
during the bushfires in late 2019/early 2020, and that this advice may have been intended to reduce the
possibility that members of the public would try to obtain these high-quality facemasks leaving them in even
shorter supply to front-line health care workers.
3         The decision to use hotels in the central business districts as quarantine facilities was taken during the
early phase of the pandemic before the State Governments had become aware that aerosol transmission is a
major COVID-19 transmission/infection route. Had the Premiers and their advisors realised the importance of
aerosol transmission as an infection route, at least some of the State Governments may have made additional
or alternative arrangements to better meet their quarantine requirements.
4. Lessons for the Future

Based on the handling of the Health Response Measures by DoH during the early phase of the
COVID-19 pandemic, as outlined in Sections 2 and 3 above, I recommend that the Enquiry Panel
considers the following proposals:

    •   The Australian Government to establish an inter-agency working group to keep abreast of
        advances in 'cutting edge' biological sciences and other developments which may indicate a
        future major disease outbreak.
    •   The Australian government, under the management of the DoH, to establish and maintain
        the capability to produce sufficient numbers of the various types of PPE (including N95/P2
        quality facemasks) that would be necessary during a future major disease outbreak.
    •   The DoH, in coordination with the States and Territories governments, to establish a
        purpose-built quarantine facility in the vicinity of a major airport in each State and
        Territory.4
    •   A comprehensive review be undertaken of those parts of DoH which would have
        responsibilities in the management of a future major disease outbreak. A key objective of
        this review would be to make recommendations that would result in the development and
        maintenance of in-house expertise within DoH of all aspects of the Health Response
        Measures necessary to response to a major disease outbreak.
    •   Review the operation of the DoH Infection Control Expert Group, with the objective of
        achieving an ICEG with much broader range of expertise so that all relevant aspects of
        Infection Control can be considered by the Expert Group.
    •   Develop a formal process in which external experts (either academics or scientists working in
        other government agencies) would be able to have input into DoH in-house decisions and
        guidance provided either by the DoH in-house expertise or from the ICEG.



I would be happy to discuss these proposals in more detail with the Enquiry Panel.


With my best wishes,



Robert Mathews OAM, MSc, DSc, FRACI, FlUPAC
15 December 2023




4        As suggested in a letter that I wrote to Premier Andrews in December 2020, these quarantine facilities
could be designed in such a way, and be located close to public transport, so that they could be used as budget
priced tourist accommodation when not required for quarantine purposes. They would not need to be 'white
elephants'.
