15 December 2023




Covid enquiry submission




I think that as Victoria had the longest lockdowns of all the states we are in a unique position
to detail aspects of eye care that went well during the pandemic and areas that did not and
could be improved when the next pandemic occurs.

As we went into lockdown I communicated with colleagues at Moorfield's Eye Hospital in
London for guidance, who at that stage were weeks ahead of us into the pandemic. Our unit
members also sought guidance from the American Society of Retinal Specialists and the
American Academy of Ophthalmology, both of whom were publishing guidelines for care of
eye patients during a viral pandemic. We used this advice to plan our own approach.

Following the advice from the United Kingdom and the USA, we split our team and had an
increased number of rotations through operating lists. The consensus was that the highest
risk for infection for health care workers from patients was in the outpatient clinic.
A split team meant the entire unit would not need to isolate if one team was exposed. By
increasing rotation through theatre lists, one member of the team was always in theatre
during clinic, hence also sparing that person to continue working should a clinic exposure
cause all of the clinic team to isolate. For the future this is a straight forward rostering
change that can implemented quickly.
As per DH guidelines only Category One patients were planned for theatre. Guidelines for
this categorization were utilised however our unit maintained dicretion over which cases
fulfilled those criteria. I think that it is very important for clinicians to prioritize surgical
conditions to reduce blinding outcomes - this was not the case in the UK. I am aware that
conditions that we classified as category one in Australia did not receive surgery in the UK,
resulting in poor outcomes and ongoing issues for those patients in the UK.

As we commenced lockdown it became apparent that the hospital did not have enough PRE,
in particular N95 masks. Our hospital engineers rapidly installed slit lamp shields, as
previously we did not have protective shields on slit lamps nor did we wear masks when
examining patients in the outpatient clinic.^^^^^^^^H is a unique specialty as we are
not only front line doctors but due to the natureoftnesHt lamp microscopic examination,
we needed to be in very close facial proximity (often cms away) to patients for often
prolonged periods of time which increased our airborne transmission risk.

For the future, the provision of adequate PRE is vital and I think this needs to be
manufactured in Australia to ensure supply. Every health care worker should be fit tested
and hence know their appropriate mask. I was not able to be fit tested until after the second
wave in Victoria due to the limited availability of fit-testing spots.

During the numerous lockdowns in Victoria we reinstituted the measures detailed above
and continued with urgent surgery. I think it is important to acknowledge that with the
measures introduced by DH / the RVEEH eg. screening questions, RAT and PCR testing
surgery could continue, particularly as we did not have inpatients with Covid.
Most of our eye surgery is day case surgery performed under local anaesthetic and this is
lower risk for the anaesthetic / theatre staff than patients undergoing general anaesthetic.
Deferring semi-urgent and elective cases has resulted in compromised patient outcomes
and has created an ongoing service delivery challenge that will impact the Health Service
for the forseeable future. Continuing with as much semi elective and elective surgery as
possible reduces the burden of overdue elective surgery that we are now facing. This could
have been scaled up once vaccination for health care workers was available. In particular
this could continue in hospitals / day surgery units that do not have inpatients with Covid or
a future viral disease.

Vitrectomy surgery had been identified as a potential aerosol generating procedure so we
conducted a study which refuted, this both in the lab and in theatre.1

Telehealth was encouraged during the pandemic however we found this is not helpful for
patients with eye disease. We instituted week one phone reviews post surgery however we
have now ceased this as post operative problems were missed and we were not providing
the standard of care that we believe should be provided.



1 Okada M, Sousa DC, Fabinyi DCA, Hadoux X, Edwards TL, Brown KD, Chiu D, Dawkins RCH, Allen PJ,
Yeoh J, van Wijngaarden P. Vitrectomy as an Aerosol-Generating Procedure in the Time of COVID-19:
The VAPOR Study. Ophthalmol Retina. 2021 Jan;5(1):97-99. doi: 10.1016/j.oret.2020.07.023. Epub 2020
Jul 30. PMID: 32739608; PMCID: PMC7391065.
 Our greatest failure was in the monitoring and screening of diabetic patients, in particular
insulin dependent diabetics. In our haste to protect them from being infected with Covid,
knowing that diabetes was a risk factor for severe disease, we did not institute better care
and many were neglected for 3 years. We are now facing exponential numbers of patients
with end stage diabetic eye disease and blindness. This is a very depressing situation,
particularly as there are many treatment options for diabetic retinopathy when it is detected
early but is now too late.

I believe that the causes are multifactorial.
    1)      Telehealth management of general diabetic care is not optimal.
    2)      Some diabetics didn't even receive telehealth calls.
    3) Screening for diabetic eye disease conducted by optometrists ceased due to closure
        of optometry practices.
    4) Diabetic eye disease progresses silently until it is advanced and so patients are not
        aware until visual loss has occurred.
    5) Most people exercised less during the lockdowns and very many people report
        weight gain due to this.
    6)      Stress often leads to "comfort eating".

There have been articles in the press about diabetic renal disease and peripheral vascular
disease which have also increased so this is not only an eye problem but a diabetic
complications problem.

For the future we need to prioritize care and screening of diabetic patients in a fashion
that can make them confident to be seen safely face to face and communicate to all our
patients with diabetes the importance of ongoing care to prevent complications.
Screening with comprehensive imaging could be very useful in this setting and could
minimise face to face examination.

I would like to conclude by emphasising that with appropriate PRE, good infection control
habits and Covid screening ophthalmologists can continue to work face to face providing eye
care and treating blinding diseases. If I knew at the start of 2020 what I now know, I believe
that we could have provided better care for the people of Victoria.



Your sincerely
