Thank you for the opportunity to provide input to the COVID-19 inquiry. I specifically wish to address
the prevention of future epidemics potentially from any airborne biological infectious organism,
including SARS-CoV-2.

My name is Bradley Prezant, and I am providing this submission on behalf of Prezant Environmental,
a corporation based in Melbourne Australia. Prezant Environmental provides ventilation, air, quality,
and occupational health services in Australia, New Zealand, and worldwide. Clients Snckude federal,
state, and local government agencies, major corporations, insurance companies, and private
individuals.

 I am a public health scientist with several relevant degrees (MSPH, MBA), a certified occupational
hygienist (COM, AIOH), a certified air quality professional (CAQP, CASANZ), and have 40 years of
professional experience conducting assessments of buildings for indoor air quality. I recently
concluded a 4-year term as Vice-President for the leading international society addressing indoor air
quality, the International Society for Indoor Air Quality and Climate (ISIAQ). I also have conducted
research on indoor air quality, ergonomics, and other occupational health issues, as a University­
based employee for Massey University, in New Zealand, and the University of Washington, in Seattle,
Washington. I frequently function as an independent expert in federal courts in New Zealand, and
Australia, and in state courts in New South Wales, and Victoria.

I developed the first web-based calculator for managing risk in buildings from SARS-COV-2 and co­
chaired wirh Professor Lidia Morawska an international symposium sponsored by ISIAQ on this topic.
I was retained by Coronavirus Quarantine Victoria (CQV) in January 2021 to reopen the quarantine
hotels; I managed a team of engineers, scientists, and contractors to assess and remediate the hotels
to prevent air movement leading to infection transmission. I have provided consulting services to
schools, corporations, hospitals, and childcare facilities to manage ventilation for the purposes of
infection control.

I recently was selected by the American Society of Heating Refrigeration, and Air Conditioning
Engineers (ASHRAE) as the only Australian to be on the committee to develop ASHRAE 241, Control
of Infectious Aerosols. ASHRAE has developed standards for air quality, thermal comfort, and
ventilation for over 50 years, and is respected worldwide as a source of definitive information on
these topics. The 241 committee included engineers, manufacturers, academics, and others
representing a wide variety of stakeholders.

ASHRAE 241, Control of Infectious Aerosols, provides a framework for managing infection risk that is
able to be applied in both new and existing buildings. It addresses the complexities a building owner
faces, by providing multiple pathways to achieve reduced risk of infection transmission, including
reduced occupancy, increased outdoor air, filtration, and other safe and effective air cleaning
technologies.

The ASHRAE 241-2023 standard is quantitative, and provides guidance for varying types of
occupancies including public, buildings, healthcare, schools, and both single-family and multifamily
residences, specifying the safe amount of clean air that is necessary to reduce infection risk. It is
written in a format that can be incorporated into building codes.

ASHRAE 241-2023, Control of Infectious Aerosols avoids some of the pitfalls of recommendations
made by other individuals and organisations, such as maximum carbon dioxide (CO2) levels, that may
be difficult to implement by building owners, may not be possible to achieve in existing buildings,
and do not permit future innovation.
I recommend that a standard such as ASHRAE 241-2023 be adopted in Australia, both to prevent
future pandemics, and also to reduce societal morbidity and mortality associated with seasonal fl
as well as potential seasonal bouts of SARS-Cov-2.
