The COVID response of the West Australian Government in regards to Residential Aged Care as
experienced while working

I was a highly qualified and professional working as a registered Occupational Therapist in one of the
larger Aged Care providers (Residential Care homes) when I confronted to deal and implement
sudden and harmful lifestyle changes. I was working for this company for 5 years and building up
new needed programs and was working to benchmark specific quality enhancements. With my
previous experience in the aged acre sector and specifically in Dementia care I was eager to use all
evidence based and person centred intervention to the benefit and improvement of each elder that
was placed under my care.

Personally I was also forced to take the flu vaccine (which for years I avoided as I used to have a
severe reaction 25 years ago). I developed shingles a month after (which still this day affects the
nerve endings above my right eye) in 2020. I was not granted an exemption in the next year, I only
agreed for the sake of the residents as I did not want to leave them high and dry. I made a decision
not to take whatever Covid vaccine was offered to me, as I knew that not enough research had gone
into its distribution and my immunity was very strong for the last 30 years, I did not need any help.

I was suddenly asked to stop vital programs of intergenerational and pet therapy in March 2020. I
immediately studied the impact this had on the elderly and tried to find other ways and mediums
(virtual and sensory wise) to fill or replace this gap. I thought it would only be momentarily. The
elderly residents cooperated as they were told over the main stream media that social distancing
would be strongly advised and that children are "spreaders". I observed a new fear arising in them: a
fear of the unknown, a fear of hospitals, and a fear even of the outdoors and mistrust of new and or
replacement staff.

 The flue jab rule cause replacement staff to be unavailable as they were unable to receive flue jabs
in the community due to unavailability. So permanent staff had to carry the double load.

The other problem that emerged was that all volunteers were stopped. Which meant that countless
programs had to be ceased. In a desperation not to lose volunteers altogether I organised letter
writing in the form of email contact. But unfortunately the elderly volunteers resigned out of fear
thinking that they themselves would put frailer people at risks. According to our management, the
main reason for the cancellation of volunteer programs was that volunteers expose themselves
more during the week to the outside world. Student programs were ceased which was a loss for
both parties the students needed practical experience.

When the lock downs started to happen all external performers where stopped. They were asked to
have the latest flue jab which was not available anymore at that time. So healthy talented and
experienced individuals where cancelled and all the elderly were deprived of their highlight for the
week. Of course we tried to cater for entertainment in other ways but this takes manpower.

Trying to stay in the rules in regulations I organised letter writing and virtual contact with children
and family members. All these extra programs where done on top of my regular work.

When masks where introduced for all staff my colleagues became unwell and tired, they sweated
more and by the end of the day most including me had a headache. The mood became very sombre
and I was trying to think of ways how to lighten their mood. I also researched the effects of the mask
wearing on the clients. Most said they felt protected but even this word was drilled from the main
stream media. There were others that said they were feeling sorry for the staff and others said it
reminded them in a negative way of hospitals. The biggest barrier was communication as staff
members were misunderstood and elders did not want to bother them with questions.

Clients that were still allowed out for a while had to wear a mask which was never worn in the
correct way as clients would pull them off and then would be refused entry in hospital.

All bus outings were cancelled for a year and when they were allowed they carried a minimal
amount of elders. They did not enjoy them anymore as there was no awareness of others on the
bus. Their sense of time was getting vague and residents did not observe the outside world at all.
The facility has a wall around it with gardens in its enclosure.

I dealt with private adjusted equipment. Equipment Companies were not allowed to come during
lock downs and were reluctant to give their services due to all the rules. Some ended up dying
before their equipment arrives and others had to endure sitting in broken chairs for the whole day.

The biggest crime happened when people where in palliative care. Family members were not
allowed entry if they did not have the correct inoculation. We did everything to allow them meeting
at distance of in the garden, but even then draconian measures where enforced. People with the
Dementia where the ones that suffered most.

I am bringing to your attention the frailest most vulnerable and most isolated Western Australian
citizens. I would like to elaborate as there are some clients that are imbedded in my memory and
conscience. I will never ever like to be part of such a senseless regime ever:

    1.   One elderly gentleman was visiting his wife once a week and if his frail health allowed
         sometimes twice. After a total Lock down he realised that his wife had no recognition of him
         anymore, it broke his heart. (At that stage there were a couple of positive cases in the
         multimillion greater Perth Metropolitan area). When we opened up (with restrictions at a
         later stage he too scared to break the rules and told us that he would never forgive himself if
         he would make her sicker. The wife developed challenging behaviour and often screamed to
         have him close. She passed away without him by her side.
    2.   We received an unplanned admission due to financial pressure of the company during lock
         down. The man was totally unsuitable for the sudden locked in facility and only a few of his
         possessions where allowed in. When the rules became less ridged in the period of Dec 2020
         and April 2021 some students where allowed back in and under strict supervision he was
         able to visit the community with his gopher. He never recovered from his turbulent entry
         and being forced into residential living he remained depressed and suicidal.
    3.   One lady was dying, her family was not inoculated. The company was not able to cater for
         the family to be by her bedside. They were told to get the Covid jab. In a desperate attempt
         to assist with palliative care the manager and myself wanted to make a way so that they
         could be in the garden rolling her bed outside as it was summer. The family however
         thought that was too much for their mother.
    4.   Another lady was admitted from hospital and all staff was asked to treat her as "positive
         case" as we were awaiting results. Therefore her admission lacked the usual support. This
         happened thrice while I worked there.
    5.   One lady was close to a hundred years old when the Covid jabs were offered, my own staff
         where asked to persuade her to cooperate. I was horrified as that decision to be involved in
         inoculation was never discussed as it if not part of the therapy assistant's job description.
                                                                       said in a clear voice that she
         would not like to have it. They injected her anyway, she cried immediately afterwards she
         became palliative and died a week after inoculation. Her family acknowledged that she
         possible died because of the inoculation.
    6.   One elderly male was not inoculated with the Covid jab neither was his family flue jabbed.
         They were asked to meet outside at the entrance. I personally tried to find another less
         weather exposed, private meeting place. The family knew of my efforts as I took it to the
         resident and relative meetings. However in the end he was the only one that saw his
         grandkids in the two years.

In September 20211 was no longer permitted to work in my beloved profession. I was literary
refused entry. My company hid themselves behind the government's rules and regulations. No
replacement Occupational Therapist were hired or employed. All my programs were ceased and
unqualified staff completed assessments that the company needed for their funding system.

My company never discussed any other virtual or telehealth options with me. I was treated like a
diseased unwanted entity that would cause the vulnerable elders harm. I had an email
communication from only one HR manager that became vindictive. My own mental health and
wellbeing was never assessed. I had to seek help from a compassionate GP that diagnosed me with
moderate symptoms of anxiety. I ended up treating myself as I knew the symptoms.

I am not the only one. I know of at least 200 nurses that lost their jobs suddenly in WA. I personally
know 13 OTs that where no longer able to practise. Thank goodness for online help which I received
from a group of psychologist over east.

The measures where damaging and draconian as we as professionals in health care give all our
interventions a tremendous amount of thought and study. We always assess our decision making . It
seems the government and my company in particular think they have acted in everyone's best
interest as they never apologized not to the clients and not to me.

This was written with great concern of the future of elder care by Dorothee Gevers.
