 Covid-19 Response Enquiry

-The Covid -19 virus was never a serious threat as the survival rate for a normally health person was
99.5%. The survival rate for children under 14 years was even higher.

The mask mandate was fraudulent because the masks in question do not prevent any cross infection.
This is born out by the trials done by many studies. A survey of mask use in 25 countries shows no
correlation between mask use and incidence of Covidl9.

https://childrenshealthdefense.org/wp-content/uploads/Masks-false-safety-and-real-dangers-Part-2-
Microbial-challenges-from-masks.pdf

-In retrospect, the Lockdowns were highly restrictive and ineffective. Border closures were
unlawful and ineffective. Social distancing was nonsensical and ineffective. Mask use for an
extended length of time has been shown to be harmful to health by restricting the flow of oxygen
and the concentration of bacterium in the moist environment of the mask.

-In all, the restrictions were unlawful, unnecessary and very damaging to the lives of many people
in Australia. The word “Mandate “ was used to coerce people to comply with the “Directives” .
Mandate is not a legal term and a “Directive” is not law. Ref: No one can force a person to submit
to biosecurity measures, EG. vaccination PCR tests or masks (Biosecurity Act 2015 section 60)

- The tests used were not fit for purpose. The inventor of the PCR test was Prof.               and
he said it was not designed to diagnose an infectious disease. RAT tests were similar in that they
could pickup any number of particles and gave many false positive results.

- The maximum number of doses authorised is 5 per person but twice as many were purchased by
the Government and as such are unused. This is great for the pharmaceutical giants but an
incredible waste of money. Wasting public money is nothing new to our Government!

-The vaccine was a new type of technology and was definitely not given the usual safety testing that
other previous vaccines were given. Normally 7 to 10 years of safety and efficacy testing is done.
This one had less than 6 months! People were coerced to be a part of a medical experiment. This is
against our Human Rights and the Nuremberg code.

    When other treatments such as Ivermectin and Chlorine dioxide were suggested, they were
heavily discouraged despite their success in other countries such as India. See:
https://ivmmeta.com/

- When there was some evidence of injury and death there appeared to be no interest in the
assessing of these numbers by the Health Authorities. In contrast, when the Swine Flu vaccine was
deemed to have caused 25 deaths it was pulled from the market. In recent months there was a call
for a Senate enquiry into the “Excess Death numbers” that was revealed by the Bureau of Statistics.
Repeated calls for an investigation received no answer. In general, when the results of safety and
effectiveness came out, they were routinely ignored by Chief Health Officers in Australia.

Yours Sincerely
