                         To the Ment bers of the Independen t Panel,

lam writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects ofAustralia’s response to
                   idemlc. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry’s goal to improve
      pandemic preparedness, there are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny.


                        Concerns Over S/xcific Pandentic Measures
   Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had
   significant impacts on individual freedoms and social dynamics. These measures, often
       invasive, warrant a detailed review to assess their necessity, effectiveness, and
  proportionality. These mandates turned most states offAustralia into areas with medical
     apartheid. Those who chose not to get vaccinated were not allowed to work, go to
 restaurants, schools, visit anyone in hospitals, attend, events and numerous other cruel and
  unnecessary restrictions. This was made even worse as it became clear the vaccines that
were mandated, did nothing to stop the spread despite governments saying that they would. In
regards to masks; study after study have shown these to be ineffectual in stopping the spread
off Covid. Even the manufacturers off masks have stickers on their packaging which state this
                                          very fact.
 Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, and psychological impacts off lockdowns
and curfews have been, profound. An evaluation of these measures is essential to understand,
  their long-term effects on Australian society and whether they were the most appropriate
 response. Until today, the effects off lockdowns and curfews play out in the mental health of
  Australians. Furth.erm.ore, combined, with mandates, curfews and lockdowns led to issues
    amongst friends andfamily’s (which the state andfederal governments encouraged),
businesses closing down with zero compensation, kids missing out on vital years off schooling
    and development to name only a few of the issues. Furth.erm.ore, we all should, have
   acknowledged that lockdowns were ineffective after the first one failed. If they were so
                        effective, why did we need one after the next?
We as taxpayers need to see the health advice that guided the decisions of state government;
                           it’s only fair seeing that we paidfor it!
   Why were our boarders shut to Australians? As an Australian passport holder; we are
 supposed to be allowed back into the country without question. It’s even written inside the
passport itself ..especially seeing as we have paid, into the tax system including customs for
                  decades. This was a complete betrayal to all Australians.


                   Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use offear in
 public health messaging. It's important to analyse whether such communication strategies
  were effective or whether they contributed to unnecessary panic and distress among the
public. The manufa.cture offear was monitored by the Victorian government in particular to
create political communication and as a foundation to create policy. This was all done on the
taxpayers ’ dime and only now has this been revealed. In addition, we were NEVER allowed,
to see the health data; instead, the government insisted that we lay all our trust in them.. Why
  did the government encourage that friends andfamily turn on one another for simply not
 agreeing to take a. vaccine or questioning the response (i.e. lockdowns, vaccine mandates,
hotel quarantines, printing and distribution of money which has since fuelled, inflation & cost
                                     ofliving crisis etc...)
   Furth.erm.ore, the role that the mainstream media played in hyping up the fear has to be
examined. Were they working hand in hand with government departments and bureaucrats?
                                    It sure looked that way.


Creation of Quarantine Centres: Why were these necessary? This is a big waste of tax
payers’ money and they were unnecessary.


Creation of National Cabinet: Is this even constitutional? We should not have a national
cabinet which meets in secret discu ssin g the direction of the country with ZERO o versight or
checks and balances. Again, this is on the tax payers’ dime and as such ALL communications
including meeting minutes that have taken place since its creation should be released to the
Australian public immediately.
In fact, the current government made an election promise to do exactly this during their
campaign.



                 Concerns Over t              sition and Scope of the Inqmry
    Panel Composition: The appointment ofInquiry panel members who have previously
 expressed supportfor certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity and
 impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel members who have expressed support for such measures
                                   should recuse themselves.
    Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One ofthe most
 significant omissions in the Inquiry's scope is the exclusion of actions taken, unilaterally by
  state and territory governments. These decisions, including state-imposed, lockdowns and
 border controls, were pivotal to the nation's pandemic response and should be included in
  the Inquiry. Why aren’t state governments being investigated, here? Most Victorian, ’s (for
example) would love to have the actions ofDaniel Andrews scrutinised. The Victorian Police
 force shot rubber bullets at unarmed protesters and also deployed anti-terrorism units and
  tactics on said unarmed protesters. This has undoubtably set a. shocking precedent in this
country. Then there is the corruption around the hotel quarantine security that ‘nobody could
  recall anything about’. There are arrests ofpeople such
  others ...plus intimidation tactics that were employed by Vic Police on anyone who has an
 audience and a stance that differedfrom the government. Once again; I could go on and on
                                             here.


                            The Need for a Chrntpre/tensive .Review

   While the Terms of Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above­
  mentioned areas are not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all
 aspects of the government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope.


                                             iclusion

 This submission represents a collective call for a. more inclusive and thorough investigation
into Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast
aside with fearmongering as it was by Australian governments during the pandemic. We urge
     the Inquiry to consider these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the
                        safeguarding ofAustralian values and liberties.

Abraham Harvey Milder
