Covid-19 submission



1.1 DEMAND that a Royal Commission be called for a FULL investigation of all parties
involved

2. I expect all documents be exposed for the aquisition of covid vaccines and contracts made
between the government and vaccine manufacturers

3. Mandates forced on people by State Premiers to be vaccinated to keep their jobs must be
exposed as illegal especially when the PM said that no one would be forced to be
vaccinated.

4. Exposure of the misinformation by Govt, Main stream media and public figures that the
vaccine was "safe and effective" when it never stopped transmission and has done more
harm and killed people than the total of all vaccines ever used.

5. Vaccine injuries have been rampant with denial from authorities.

6. Doctors and experts have been silenced or ignored so that the government narrative
wasn't jeopardised

7. AHPRA (AN UNELECTED BODY), has silenced all health care workers by sending a letter
threatening them with disciplinary action or deregistration if they spoke out against the
government narrative. How is this allowed when Doctors have always had the doctor/patient
confidentiality.

8. Exposure of the fear campaign that has been thrust upon the Australian public so that
vaccine hesitancy is allowed

9. Failure of the government to admit that the majority of people had NO reason to be
subjected to forced vaccination as this coronavirus was not a threat to their health

10. The government should be held accountable for the failure to allow early intervention
using Vit D, Vit C, Zinc, Hydroxychloriquin and the Nobel winning cheap and effective
Ivermectin. Instead, these items were banned so as to make people think that the vaccines
were the only answer. No natural health alternatives were ever recommended to boost a
person's immune system

11. Failure of the TGA to properly assess a drug that was new and their failure to ban it when
there was a huge increase in deaths and harm.

We have all been lied to regarding everything to do with Covid-19 and the Government sits
back and acts as if "there's nothing to see here"....shame on them 111
