I was excited to see Australia announce the creation of a Centre for Disease Control.
COVID-19 made it clear that Australia needs an institution of this kind. I’m also glad that
Australia has commissioned this Inquiry, including to inform the priorities of the CDC.

There’s a long-standing public health adage that “prevention is better than a cure”. The
same logic applies to pandemics. Pike et al in The Origin and Prevention of Pandemics
show that the “wait-and-respond approach is not sufficient and that the development of
systems to prevent pandemics before they are established should be considered imperative
to human health.” I think this insight should be foundational to the direction of this Inquiry.

My submission focuses on a couple of select issues, but my overall view is that pandemic
prevention should be a key priority of the CDC and that our institutions and leaders should
never concede that pandemics are inevitable.

I believe that the Australian government should be investing in better Indoor Air Quality (IAQ)
to reduce the risks of future pandemics. Australians spend at least 90% of their time inc rs
and every year, Australians fall ill as a result of exposure to airborne pathogens while
indoors. Worse still, respiratory transmission is a primary transmission route for pandemics.
Therefore, reducing respiratory transmission will not only result in less illness for Australians
but also safeguard us against the next pandemic. In addition to proven approaches and
technologies, there are promising, effective, and scalable interventions, such as Ultraviolet
germicidal irradiation (UVGI), which Australia could be supporting in the hopes of
deployment before the next pandemic.

The Lancet COVID-19 Commission Task Force has proposed Non-infectious Air Delivery
Rates (NADR) as measurable goals for ventilation and filtration targets that protect against
infectious disease transmission. Air delivery rates to different sized rooms can be compared
using the normalised measure of Air Changes per Hour (ACH) - the number of times the
volume of air in a room is exchanged with fresh, pathogen-free air each hour. Ventilating a
room with fresh outdoor air while exhausting air in the room reduces the concentration of
pathogens in the air produced by the room's occupants. Filtration and disinfection
technologies can achieve comparable effects to ventilating a room with fresh air can be
measured by Equivalent Air Changes per Hour (eACH) - the number of ACH required to
achieve the same reduction in pathogen concentration.

Traditionally, air changeovers are achieved through opening a window or having an HVAC
(Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) system installed. The Air Safety to Combat Global
Catastrophic Biorisk report summarises the cost-effectiveness of different mechanical IAQ
interventions. A modern HVAC system costs $135 USD per ACH, assuming it is updated to
current standards for filtration and air delivery rates. However, many buildings do not have
an HVAC system installed and are often not ventilated - schools, cafes and restaurants,
homes, and smaller and older workplaces are just some examples of poorly ventilated
spaces that we visit every day. Modern HVAC systems can be expensive or difficult to retrofit
into buildings but represent an important step towards delivering non-infectious air. However,
there are more cost-effective technologies that are easier to retrofit and could be widely
adopted to keep Australians safe and healthy indoors. One example is portable air cleaners
using HEPA filters which are estimated to cost approximately $110 USD per eACH and are
simple to retrofit into buildings that are unsuitable for HVAC.
Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) is the use of ultraviolet light to inactivate or kill
pathogens such as bacteria, fungal spores and viruses. UVGI lights in indoor spaces could
decrease the number of pathogen particles in the air in a safe, scalable and simple manner.
Upper room UVGI lamps use 254nm wavelength UV light to sterilise the air in the top of
rooms as it circulates and cost approximately $14 USD per eACH. Far-UVC lights are a
newer innovation that can bathe an occupied room in far-UVC wavelengths. It uses a shorter
wavelength of 222nm, which appears to be safe for skin and corneas yet it still inactivates
the comparatively smaller pathogen particles. Unlike other interventions, Far-UVC has
potential to reduce short range and conversational distance transmission and sterilise
surfaces, in addition to reducing long-range airborne transmission like mechanical
ventilation, portable air cleaners and 254nm UVGI. It is estimated to cost $15-46 per eACH,
however, still reguires additional R&D to make it cost-effective and scalable.

Given that we have a mix of proven approaches for a variety of buildings and promising
technology, I believe Australia should be investing in the deployment of what we know works
and the research and development of what we know is promising. UVGI technology has the
potential to make all indoor environments safe for Australians to occupy without fear of
respiratory illness at an affordable price. Through supporting research and development in
this technology, Australia can lower the burden of respiratory illness and protect against the
next pandemic.


Public commentary has focused on the possible origins of COVID-19, including whether it
was a “lab leak”. Regardless of the specifics of COVID-19 specifically, I’ve been shocked to
learn about the high rate of safety incidents at labs handling dangerous pathogens. A
publication from Manheim and Lewis found that from 1975-2016 there were 71 reported
high-risk human-caused pathogen exposure events - as well as evidence of underreporting.1
An anonymous survey on biosecurity and accidents in Belgium reported almost 100
laboratory-acguired infections in a 5 year study period.2 A lab leak also likely began the 1977
flu pandemic.

Given pandemics can cost millions of lives and trillions of dollars, it seems clear that safety
standards (or adherence to standards) fall far short of what is appropriate. While I’m firmly in
favour of science, and think that science is a force for good in fighting pandemics, it has to
be done responsibly.

As an outsider, there is little transparency about how physical containment facilities in
Australia are regulated. The Office of the Gene Technology Regulator seems to focus mostly
on GMOs and provides little information about its functions regarding physical containment
facilities.

To the extent that information is available, OGTR’s 2022-23 annual report is proud that it
certified a record 132 physical containment facilities last year, meaning that there are now



1 David Manheim and Gregory Lewis, ‘High-Risk Human-Caused Pathogen Exposure Events from
1975-2016’ (2022) 10 FWOOResearch 752.
2 Biosafety and Biotechnology Unit, ‘Laboratory-Acquired Infections in Belgium (2012-2017)’.
1,874 “high-level” facilities operating in Australia. It also reports that it only conducted 49
inspections in the same period, including no inspections of the highest-level PC4 facilities.

Reviewing older reports, no PC4 facilities were inspected in 2021-22 either, and only 1
inspection occurred in 2020-21. Despite only conducting 49 inspections in 2022-23, 26
certified physical containment facilities were found to be non-compliant. In this context, the
report noted that OGTR takes a “cooperative approach” to compliance and that no culpability
was found in any of these cases.

In addition to seeming shortcomings in oversight, the guidelines themselves are troubling.
The rules for PC4 facilities were last updated in 2007 and reference standards like AS1324.1
on air filters and AS/NZS 2243.3 on lab safety, which don’t appear to have been updated
since 2001 and 2002 respectively. AS1324.1 specifically has been criticised by the HVAC
industry for being based on inaccurate research from the 1950s and has now been
superseded by ISO 16890.

While this is a grim picture on multiple fronts, it’s not necessarily a criticism of OGTR. OGTR
only has 51 employees and has wide-ranging regulatory functions apart from these topics.

I think that this Inquiry should recommend a thorough review of biosafety - including the
suitability of requirements, degree of adherence, and adequacy of oversight - for all
research that involves human or animal pathogens. The review should include a risk
assessment that takes into account the potentially catastrophic global consequences of
errors, and ensures that our approach to mitigation is proportionate to that risk.

Citations:
    •       OGTR Annual Report 2022-23
    • Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care, Office of the Gene
        Technology Regulator Annual Report 2021-22 (oqtr.qov.au)
    • Guidelines for the certification of physical containment facilities | Office of the Gene
        Technology Regulator (oqtr.qov.au)
    • Bringing the Australian air filter standard up to speed - HVAC&R News
        (hvacrnews.com.au)

I think pandemics are one of the most important issues of our time, and expert assessments
that the risk of pandemics is increasing are alarming. I think this inguiry should carefully
consider how future pandemics could start and ensure it makes specific recommendations to
reduce their likelihood. This should include the known mechanisms that have been with
humans since time immemorial, such as zoonoses, as well as more recent risks, such as lab
leaks, and emerging threats, such as engineered pathogens.
