Submission for Covidl9 Response Inquiry

Is it not the governments' job and responsibility to respond to perceived threats in a balanced and
sensible way? If coming to the wrong conclusions initially, moving forward considering all new facts
and correcting any miscalculations would be a common sense approach would it not?

Seems like common sense was in very short supply the last three years, especially among those
within governments, more concerned with the narrative and agenda that had nothing to do with
health was the name of the game.

For example how does making gyms non- essential but fast foods (such as McDonalds) and bottle
shops essential make any sense? In a health crisis? More bizarre than that, the nonsense of the mask
on , mask off/sit down/ stand up in cafes and eateries was your big mistake in making people realise
that the governments were just making things up on the fly. Nothing was based in science although
we were told constantly 'follow the science'. There wasn't any rhyme or reason to anything that was
done and now the data has come in with warts and all.

Therefore I suggest the government of the day (during the pandemic) and the now government have
not corrected the record when new facts and evidence have come to light but instead have
hunkered down on an old agenda, oblivious to any emerging facts making all that they have spoken
and actioned in the past three years false and misleading.

As a government you have roles and responsibilities towards the communities you serve and this has
not been the case throughout the pandemic in the response that was carried out. There was no duty
of care, the exact opposite was the reality which has been shown through the lack of studying the
data that the general public over the last 3 years have now gathered from Freedom of Information
requests from around the world.

There are precisely 220 Freedom of Information responses that Canadian woman,
has collected, from health/ science institutions from around the world, not finding any record of the
correct purification/isolation of the virus.

Find her results at the following link:

https://www.fluoridefreepeel.ca/fois-reveal-that-health-science-institutions-around-the-world-
have-no-record-of-sars-cov-2-isolation-purification/

If there is no evidence of any virus then how and why were the governments' responses like they
were? Many peoples' lives have been changed, turned upside down and destroyed by the heavy
handed responses that were taken.

It's simply a case of no record of a virus found anywhere in the world, this would be a great starting
point for any responsible government to come from with their tails between their legs, on bended
knee begging for forgiveness from the people. We then can move forward once this simple truth is
revealed to the Australian people and work from there on consequences for this failure of duty of
care and lack of understanding that governments need to stay out of the lives of its people and
merely serve instead of bully and harass. This must never happen again.
There is a great article written by a PHD, that explains why the isolation of the virus has not been
done correctly anywhere in the world. It is attached.

Thank you for your time, let the truth prevail.

Michelle Gail
