I wish to highlight the following points of focus.
I DEMAND a royal commission for a FULL investigation into the government's - both on a
Federal and State level - handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. This is something that was
initially promised to the Australian public by the Labour government, only for Mr Albanese
to go back on his word and instead instigate a watered down version.

The Royal Commission needs to investigate the following.
   1. There is enough suspicion to suggest that vaccine acquisitions were carried out in a
       corrupt fashion and that indeed "secret" contracts were drawn up by the
      government's health regulators at the time.
   2. I wish to have it on notice that the Vaccine Mandates were illegal in that they were
       enforced outside of what is written in the Constitution.
   3. Most - if not all - of the information passed onto the Australian public was censored
       by the media. One of the best examples of this was the official misinformation about
      the efficacy of the vaccines, which started with the narrative that "they blocked
      transmission". This proved not to be the case.
   4. Of great concern has been the number of vaccine injuries. The inquiry must hold
       accountable, those parties who were knowingly enforcing the administering of the
      vaccines, whilst there were obvious risks to the general public's health at stake!
   5. Following on from point 4, doctors and associated medical experts were silenced -
      for threat of losing their careers - by government power brokers.
      AHPRA and ATAGI are in the spotlight over their censorship of doctors and medical
       experts.
      This surely has to be treated with the utmost urgency and scrutiny.
       Clearly the public's interests have been put aside to support an agenda.
   6. Can the general public be assured that the authorities were not censoring the main
       stream media during the height of the pandemic?

       For trust to be restored between Federal and State government's and the people to
       which they are sworn to serve, a level of accountability must be meted out to those
       responsible for their actions.
