COVID INQUIRY

The following are my major concerns regarding the Covid pandemic:

  1. Why in the case of Covid 19 did they change the designation of
     'the cause of death' for the purpose of statistics, that is defining
     the death as a 'covid death when the person died with Covid
     but died from or with some other major comorbidity or some
     other trauma or accident.
  2. Based on the above if only 5% of deaths 'with Covid' were 'from
     covid' why a pandemic was declared at all.
  3. Detailed pandemic plans were prepared by Federal and State
     Governments in the early 2000. Why were these plans ignored
     and not followed. In fact, regarding mandates, masks, and many
     Covid measures the direct opposite procedures to those
     recommended by the plans were followed.
  4. Why was the advice of experts not openly debated. Why were
     they silenced. Why were Doctors denied the right to treat
     patients' symptoms as has been the practices since medicine
     began. They were drugs banned that were being successfully
     used around the world. WHY WERE ALTERNATE VIEWS
     CENSORED, WRONGLY DISCREDITED.
  5. Why were people forced to undergo medical treatment with
     the experimental vaccines.
  6. The vaccines caused numerous deaths and injuries but were
     not discontinued as had been thee practice since the
     establishment of the TGA. A comparison with other medical
     treatments, health products and drugs would reveal total
     inadequate responses by the TGA and health officials.
  7. Why isn't the Royal Commission looking in detail at the States
     particularly the premiers and health officials mandates and
     public scare mongering.
  8. Why were big business allowed to operate and smaller
     operators closed down.
9. What is the cost benefit analysis of the mandates/vaccine as to
   the Veal covid deaths injuries.
10. Why are the contracts for the purchase of the vaccines
   and conditions not made public.
11. Why did the Government, Politicians and Health officials
   claim that vaccines would stop transmission, reduce
   hospitalisations and deaths when none of the clinical trials
   showed that this was the case. Upon what did they base these
   Statements.
