                              oo/mofo
                               Australian Salaried Medical Officers'
                                            Federation

                 Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


                                               7 February 2024

The Australian Salaried Medical Officers Federation (ASMOF) is Australia's Union for doctors. The union
predominately represents salaried doctors working in public health systems across every state and
territory in the country. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, ASMOF members and
essential healthcare workers (HCWs) have been at the forefront of the medical response and service
delivery.

As the pandemic evolved, ASMOF's members cited a range of factors that compromised their capacity to
provide appropriate and effective medical care whilst also balancing the need to ensure their own safety.

Health Information and Messaging

Initially, the government's health information about the pandemic was incorrect and failed to consider
the possibility of airborne transmission. This led to increased risk for patients and frontline workers, as
well as the spread of misinformation.

In 2020 and 2021, the health information related to COVID-19 did not account for the possibility of
airborne transmission despite early signs indicating that the virus was extremely contagious (      ific
American, 2021).

Public information disseminated during this time suggested that the virus could only be transmitted
through direct or close contact with infected individuals, such as through their saliva, respiratory
secretions, or respiratory droplets (within one meter), or through indirect fomite transmission, such as
contaminated countertops or handrails (WHO, 2020).

In June 2020, 239 scientists from 32 countries wrote an open letter to the World Health Organization
(WHO), urging the agency to recognise airborne transmission of COVID-19 through the aerosolisation of
viral particles (ABC News, 2020). Nine months later, in May 2021, WHO updated its advice, confirming
airborne transmission of the virus through aerosolised particles (RACGP, 2021). It would take the
Australian Government another eight weeks to amend public health messaging and eleven weeks to
mandate mask-wearing in certain jurisdictions and settings (The Australian, 2021).

 Between May 2020 and July 2021 mandates and messaging were inconsistent and haphazardly applied
across the states and territories. During this stage of the pandemic public trust and faith in the
government waned, as many doubted the government's priorities and questioned whether budgetary
constraints were influencing decision-making. Accepting that some policies are a matter of government
judgment (i.e., border closures), the decision to pre-emptively lift face mask mandates in some states
emerged as political virtue signalling.

The Provision of Personal Protective Equipment and Essential Medical Supplies

The inadequate and inequitable supply and distribution of suitable personal protective equipment (PPE)
was a common complaint among ASMOF members across the country. PPE is crucial in safeguarding the
health and safety of medical professionals and hospital staff, allowing them to provide care to patients.

A study conducted in 2022 on the use of PPE by HCW revealed that Australia was not prepared for the
pandemic. This was evident from Victoria's second wave, during which HCW infections increased from



                      Level 3 Suite 46 330 Wattle Street Ultimo New South Wales 2007                          1
                            Locked Mail Bag No 13 Glebe New South Wales 2037
              Telephone: (02) 9212 6900 Facsimile: (02) 9212 6911 email: asmof@asmof.org.au
388 in July to 3,580 in December 2020. It was found that 70% of these infections were occupationally
acquired (PLOS One, 2022).

During this time, ASMOF members continuously raised concerns regarding the supply of appropriately
fitted facemasks due to delayed action by governments across all jurisdictions in providing the necessary
ancillary equipment to ensure the supply of correctly fitted masks. Lack of access to fit testing for P2 and
N95 masks exposed members and HCWs to an unacceptable risk of contracting the virus and exacerbated
anxieties regarding the spread of the virus in vulnerable groups (RACGP, 2022).

In addition to PPE shortages, lack of access to essential medical supplies and equipment continued to
plague the public health systems nationally for the following two years. In 2022, Tweed Hospital, one of
New South Wales's major regional hospitals, had to source its own triage tent, send COVID tests six hours
away because there was not enough space for its own diagnoses machine, and had positive patients wait
30 hours to be transferred to a properly equipped hospital (The Guardian, 2022).

As with PPE shortages, members reported significant issues with the provision of adequate and
appropriate medical supplies during the early stages of the pandemic. Several factors contributed to this,
including a depletion of medical supply stockpiles and supply chain disruptions (PWC, 2020) (ABC News,
2020).

The impetus is on governments to immediately take steps to ensure that such failures are not repeated in
the future.

Although Australia's vaccine rollout was highly effective, ASMOF members expressed disappointment
with the procurement arrangements that resulted in limited supplies and significant delays during the
initial stages of global vaccine availability.

To better protect Australia in the future, much more needs to be done at the state and national levels in
terms of planning, skills and knowledge development, investment, and medical stockpiling to bolster
national supply chains.

Staff Shortages and Excessive Workloads

The public health system bore the brunt of the pandemic, directly impacting ASMOF members whose
ability to provide patient care had already been compromised due to chronic underfunding and
understaffing by successive state and federal governments.

The incidence of understaffing in hospitals rapidly increased due to doctors and HCWs contracting the
virus, in part, as a result of inadequate PPE and frontline exposure. According to data on healthcare
worker infections in Australia between 25th January and Sth July 2020, at least 536 healthcare workers
were infected during this time period, identified through 36 hospital outbreaks. The study revealed that
healthcare workers were 2.69 times more likely to contract COVID-19 than the general community (AIHW,
2021).

The prevalence of infection among medical practitioners further lays bare the importance of considered
and sustained funding and staffing for public hospitals.

Lack of Preparedness

During the pandemic, it became apparent that Australia urgently needed a central health organisation
similar to the US Centre for Disease Control (CDC).

The government's lack of preparedness revealed significant gaps in its ability to coordinate, plan, and
respond quickly to emerging diseases. Additionally, the capacity of Australian hospitals to handle the

                                                                                                               2
sudden influx of patients was inadequate, forcing them to cancel elective surgeries and create makeshift
wards causing errors in infection control, as seen at Tweed Hospital in 2022 (see above).

Further, hospitals were not supported to effectively manage patient intake in a considered manner which
would later compromise sudden surges in demand. This resulted in a decline in hospital performance and
access during the pandemic, the consequences of which persist in 2024, for example:
    •        The continued shortage of additional beds and capacity.
    •        Widespread hospital budget deficits.
    •   Increased hospital staff illnesses and absences due to COVID, post COVID fatigue, burnout, long
        COVID and changing attitudes to working sick.

When planning for such events, it is important to consider how private hospitals and health facilities can
also contribute to the response effort. Additionally, other factors such as coordination and centralisation
of planning should be taken into account, for example:
    •        The establishment of adequate stockpiles of appropriate medical supplies.
    •        How primary care and private hospitals can be effectively activated and engaged.
    •        How decision making can be expedited to ensure that guidelines and policies are deployed as
        quickly and effectively as possible.

In December 2022, ASMOF submitted to the Federal Government consultation on the establishment of an
Australian CDC. ASMOF commends the Federal Government on the launch of an interim CDC and
appreciates the nature of a staggered establishment (Department of Health and Aged Care, 2024).

As with the union's 2022 submission, the Federation cautions the government to ensure that the agency
is robustly funded and is embedded in Australia's national health, medical and scientific landscape to
ensure its efficacy and capacity to respond to new and emerging health and medical events.

Conclusion

In summary, the health information and messaging during 2020-2021 failed to account for the possibility
of airborne or aerosol transmission (Department of Health, 2021). There was a refusal to adopt
precautionary measures and a failure to apply precautionary principles in procuring medical equipment
and PPE. If the Government heeded the early data and research, it could have prevented aerosol
transmission in the early stages (Department of Health, 2021).The risks to members and HCWs were
needlessly exacerbated by the delayed provision of updated and emerging medical information,
characterised by periods of conflicting information across different jurisdictions.

The inability to provide timely policies and guidelines due to prolonged consultation often resulted in no
decisions being made for extended periods of time.

The ability to close borders and the bipartisanship to do so aided in offsetting the Government's lack of
preparedness. However, this will not always be a reliable protective health measure. It is therefore
essential that the Government adequately equip public hospitals with the necessary resources in
preparation for unexpected medical emergencies, epidemics and pandemics.

Without sustained federal and state funding, resource allocation and investment, the interim CDC will
likely serve as a toothless tiger. The 'complete' establishment of the agency (for which there appears to be
no deadline) must avoid the mistakes and shortfalls of the COVID-19 pandemic response and must be
accompanied by equitable and adequate funding to the states and territories to respond to pandemics,
endemics, and new and emerging illnesses such as Victoria's Buruli ulcers and the current syphilis epidemic
(The Guardian, 2024) (RACGP, 2022).


                                                                                                              3
