                                                                               Drummond
                                                                               Street
                                                                               Services ds.org.au




      To the Members of the Inquiry,

      Drummond Street Services, a leading provider of support services for vulnerable families
      and individuals in Victoria, welcomes the opportunity to submit this response to the
      Inquiry into the Commonwealth Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

      Our organisation has witnessed firsthand the vast and multifaceted impact of the
      pandemic on our communities, particularly those experiencing marginalisation and
      social exclusion.

      We strongly support the Build Back Fairer: The COVID-19 Marmot Review1, which aligns
      with our findings around the impacts of COVID-19 and how it impacted many unegually.
      We strongly encourage the government to take on all relevant recommendations in this
      review.

      In addition, we believe the Inguiry's focus should consider the specific key areas below:

            •   Mental health and suicide prevention: The pandemic has exacerbated existing
                mental health challenges and triggered new ones. As highlighted by Drummond
                Street's COVID-19 Impact Report series11, suicide risk doubled during the COVID-
                19 pandemic. Mental illness risk alerts were 1.4 times higher during the pandemic
                with a large increase in complex risk issues such as eating disorders, self-harm
                and suicide ideation and poor mental health amongst children and young
                people.

                As highlighted in the Future-proofing Safety report,111 the increased complexity of
                client presentations in terms of both risk and needs was one of the strongest
                themes to emerge from all data sources. Practitioners across reported that the
                primary cause for increased complexity was the compounding impacts of
                COVID-19 and its associated restrictions on people's pre-existing needs around
                mental health, financial stress, housing instability and AOD misuse experienced
                an exacerbation and escalation of these needs with heightened anxiety,
                isolation, and loss of employment. Just as importantly, practitioners emphasised
                that a lack of access to service supports over the course of the COVID-19
                pandemic resulted in these needs becoming more acute and severe. The research
                team heard that, by the time an individual or family reached services for support,
                their needs were more varied and entrenched.

                We urge the Inguiry to examine the effectiveness of Commonwealth-funded
                mental health programs and identify gaps in service provision for at-risk
                populations.

            •   Family and Interpersonal violence: Lockdowns and social isolation experienced
                during the COVID-19 pandemic across all states and territories increased the risk
                of domestic violence. The Inguiry should examine the effectiveness of
                Commonwealth-funded family violence prevention and support programs and
                identify areas for improvement in responsiveness and accessibility. Government


100 Drummond Street
Carlton Victoria 3053
                                        Centre
[03] 9663 6733                          For Family           Stepfamilies
ds.org.au
                                        Research &
                                        Evaluation
                                                      IU 1U Australia       Queerspace
            Drummond
            Street
            Services

            should also consider the long-term implications of the heightened experiences of
            family violence during the pandemic and consider the need for increased
            recovery support, aligning with the 4th domain of The National Plan to End
            Violence against Women and Children 2022-2032.

            The Future-proofing Safety Final Report, led by the Centre for Family Research
            and Evaluation [CFRE] at Drummond Street Services, in partnership with research
            partners the Centre for Innovative Justice [CIJ] at RMIT University and the
            Australian Institute of Family Studies [AIFS], highlights the significant
            challenges and specific opportunities for services and clients that emerged
            during COVID-19. These include elevated client risk and need, changed service
            responses, gaps and weaknesses within the family violence and sexual assault
            service system, and the impacts of COVID-19 on the workforce. The report
            finishes with a future focus by offering a framework for crisis readiness
            responses that aims to future-proof how we can do better to respond to family
            violence during future crises.

            While the report focuses on the experiences of family violence and sexual
            assault within Victoria, there are many findings that are highly relevant to this
            national enguiry, including the impact of Federal income support decisions. The
            early access to superannuation for example had extremely damaging
            conseguences for many people experiencing family violence, who were forced to
            withdraw their superannuation. These measures will have long lasting
            implications for victims and survivors, including long term, entrenched poverty.

        •   Housing and homelessness: The pandemic exacerbated housing insecurity and
            homelessness. As highlighted in the Future-proofing Safety project, housing
            distress and homelessness were key issues highlighted by practitioners working
            across a range of sectors across Victoria. For families fleeing violence, the lack
            of access to secure and long-term housing put many women and children at risk.
            We recommend the Inguiry assess the effectiveness of Commonwealth
            homelessness initiatives and consider additional measures to prevent evictions
            and promote long term secure housing solutions, particularly for people fleeing
            family and domestic violence situations.
        •   Priority populations: The pandemic disproportionately impacted vulnerable
            groups, including Indigenous Australians, culturally and linguistically diverse
            communities, and people with disabilities, trans/refugee sex workers, people
            with disabilities and those in temporary and government high rise
            accommodation. The Inguiry should assess the effectiveness of existing
            mechanisms for addressing the specific needs of these groups during future
            pandemics and recommend strategies for more eguitable and inclusive
            responses.

            There is also a need to consider the intersectional needs of people from priority
            populations and acknowledge and respond to the elevated risk and needs of
            many within the community. Research conducted with Drummond Street's Centre
            for Family Research and Evaluation and Eguality Australia during COVID, There is
            No Safe Place at Homeiv. highlighted the distinct risk that some groups faced,
            with a number of LGBTIQA+ people more likely to experience violence than other
            LGBTIQA+ people. For example, young LGBTIQA+ people who were under 25 were


100 Drummond Street
Carlton Victoria 3053                 Centre
[03] 9663 6733                        For Family           Stepfamilies
ds.org.au
                                      Research &
                                      Evaluation
                                                    IU 1U Australia       Queerspace
            Drummond
            Street
            Services

            4.5x more likely to experience violence and those living with a disability were
            1.9x more likely to experience violence.

            As highlighted in the Future-proofing Safety7 report, marginalised groups should
            not be an afterthought in disaster response. Government and services should be
            better prepared for future crises by developing up crisis readiness policies which
            consider diverse and marginalised communities and how they will be engaged
            and responded to during future crises.

        •   Long COVID: At Drummond Street Services, we have many staff struggling with
            long covid, which impacts service delivery. For many workers across other
            service and sectors, where flexible work arrangement and access to sick leave
            are not possible, long-COVID has brought with it debilitating health impacts in
            addition to financial insecurity.

            As this vulnerability exposes broader workforce risks and risks in relation to
            service provision for the most vulnerable within society, we urge the government
            prioritises research into long COVID's debilitating effects on individuals and its
            impact on workforce resilience. In addition, better financial safety nets should
            be put in place for individuals experiencing long COVID, and services and
            businesses who are also grappling with its impacts.

   Drawing on our extensive experience supporting vulnerable communities, Drummond
   Street Services hope that the Inquiry's findings and recommendations will be
   instrumental in shaping a more effective and equitable response to future pandemics.
   We are committed to collaborating with the Inquiry and sharing our insights to ensure
   that no one is left behind in the face of future crises.

   Thank you for your time and consideration.

    Sincerely,




    Karen Field,
    CEO Drummond Street Services



    1 Build Back Fairer: The COVID-19 Marmot Review
   " COVID-19 Impact Report series
   Hi Future-proofing Safety report,
   iv There is No Safe Place at Home
   v Future-proofing Safety



ICO Drummond Street
Carlton Victoria 3053
[03] 9663 6733
                                      Centre
                                      For Family
                                                                                                   5
                                                            Stepfamilies                         1113

ds.org.au
                                      Research &
                                      Evaluation
                                                    IU 1U   Australia      Queerspace
