                      Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                              writer
                             29 December 2023. Updated MS version 8/1/24



My submission is focused on the most basic problem of the health response to the
pandemic, which was, and continues to be, the failure to follow aerosol science by
identifying and addressing airborne transmission as the primary way that COVID-19
spreads - and the failure to fully communicate that fact to the public.

In March 2020, like most people, I accepted as fact the advice about ‘droplets within two metres’
and to sanitise hands and surfaces rigorously. But even then, China was saying that the virus was
carried further in the air. There was the mysterious spreading of the virus on cruise ships even
though passengers were confined to their cabins. Then, on Twitter, I saw a Japanese report featuring
the President of the Japanese Association for Infectious Disease who explained that the virus can be
carried not only in the large droplets which fall to the ground, but also in much smaller particles.
The video showed that the particles can be carried in indoor air currents throughout poorly
ventilated rooms for hours, and are likely to be inhaled by people there. [1]

Soon after, I read similar studies by Korean, and American aerosol scientists. By tracking directions
of air flow in a restaurant, the Chinese explained why some diners had been infected but others had
not.

I did not question the 2-metre/sanitising advice - but I was also thinking of the possibility of greater
airborne risk when, in May 2020,1 donned an N-95 mask before boarding a plane to return to
Australia from NZ. I did not remove that mask until I was in my room in a quarantine hotel.

At the hotel, the air conditioning in my room was extremely cold. It turned out to be broken but led
to my speaking with the air-con maintenance man, who explained that air was not exchanged
between rooms. However, I wondered about the safety of hall air and did not open the door any
longer than necessary. In the months that followed, the unsuitability of high-rise hotels for
quarantine was revealed, particularly because of exchange of air across hallways.

I have no scientific background, I was simply an individual trying to learn about the situation. I did
not know that one of Australia’s most eminent scientists, Professor^^^^^^^^^^Q together with
many other aerosol scientists, had tried to let the World Health Organisation know about the actual
danger of Covid’s fully airborne transmission via respiratory particles of all sizes. [2] But the WHO
was unwilling to listen and did not warn the public of the real airborne danger. Since then it has
made more effort to obscure its mistake than to correct it.

For many decades, it seems that an incorrect theory of “droplet/fomite” transmission of respiratory
diseases has dominated the medical world, which continues to exclude aerosol scientists from
infection control policies. [3] This means that medical staff often do not have an up-to-date
scientific understanding of how airborne transmission occurs, resulting in reluctance to mask, even
in hospitals and other medical settings. When staff do mask, it is too often with loose-fitting surgical
masks that let in air at the edges, rather than using close-fitting respirators such as N-95s. Visitors
too, are not required to mask. Thus medical settings have become places of dirty air; entering them

                                                                                                         1
means the risk of breathing Covid-contaminated air and of getting infected with this potentially
chronic and deadly disease.

It is difficult for individuals to protect themselves in these circumstances as one-way masking is less
effective than universal masking by everyone able to do so.

We stopped cholera epidemics in 19th Century cities by getting a clean water supply. Now that we
have more knowledge of airborne pathogens, we need to have clean indoor air, especially within
shared public spaces. Our aerosol scientists and aerosol engineers have the knowledge and
technology required, using ventilation, air purifying, and UV air sanitising measures. It is well within
Australia’s ability to do this, costing far less than the rapidly increasing disabilities caused by Covid,
particularly to previously healthy working-age people and children.

In this submission, I have explained how I, as a member of the public, learned about how infectious
respiratory particles are breathed out, can travel tens of metres indoors, and then be breathed in by
other people. I’ve explained the circumstances in which it is most likely to occur, and measures that
can be taken to reduce that transmission. It was no more difficult to understand those basic
concepts than it has been to outline them on this page.

Admittedly, I was not weighed down by years of indoctrination with an erroneous theory about the
primacy of droplets. Nor do I need to extricate myself from its tangle of misapplied terminology; the
dogma having hijacked scientific terms such as ‘droplet’, ‘aerosol’, and even ‘airborne’ and given
them its own jargonistic meanings, thus impeding communication between disciplines.

It astonishes me that four years into the continuing Covid pandemic, aerosol science is still not
widely utilised to counter Covid’s airborne transmission, particularly to make safer the key public
spaces that many people are obliged to go to, such as hospitals and schools.

There remains an urgent need to fully inform and educate the public about Covid’s airborne
spread - and about the need for clean indoor air to restrict airborne transmission of current
and future pathogens.




                                                                                                             2
References:

1. CoV-2 Coronavirus Micro-droplets - NHK World Report (Japanese Broadcasting
Corporation)
30 March 2020
https://youtu.be/vBvFkQizTT4

2. CO VID-19 and Airborne Transmission: Science Rejected, Lives Lost. Can Society Do
Better?
Aerosol experts provide an account of rejection of aerosol science by the World Health
Organisation.
Lidia Morawska, William Bahnfleth, Philomena M Bluyssen, Atze Boerstra, Giorgio Buonanno,
Stephanie J Dancer, Andres Floto, Francesco Franchimon, Charles Haworth, Jaap Hogeling,
Christina Isaxon, Jose L Jimenez, Jarek Kurnitski, Yuguo Li, Marcel Loomans, Guy Marks, Linsey C
Marr, Livio Mazzarella, Arsen Krikor Melikov, Shelly Miller, Donald K Milton, William Nazaroff,
Peter V Nielsen, Catherine Noakes, Jordan Peccia, Xavier Querol, Chandra Sekhar, Olli Seppanen,
Shin-ichi Tanabe, Raymond Tellier, Tham Kwok Wai, Pawel Wargocki, Aneta Wierzbicka
10 February 2023
https://academic.oup.com/cid/advance-article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciad068/7034152

3. What were the historical reasons for the resistance to recognising airborne transmission
during the COVID-19pandemic?
Jose L. Jimenez Linsey C. Marr Katherine Randall Edward Thomas Ewing Zeynep Tufekci Trish
Greenhalgh Raymond Tellier Julian W. Tang Yuguo Li Lidia Morawska Jonathan Mesiano-
Crookston David Fisman Orla Hegarty Stephanie J. Dancer Philomena M. Bluyssen Giorgio
Buonanno Marcel G. L. C. Loomans William P. Bahnfleth Maosheng Yao Chandra Sekhar Pawel
Wargocki Arsen K. Melikov Kimberly A. Prather
 21 August 2022
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111 /ina.13070




                                                                                               3
