Submission to Covid Enquiry




My personal experience of Australia's Covid-19 response was that it was disproportionate to the risks
involved. Now that almost everyone has had Covid we can see that the survival rate is above 99% for
healthy people under 80 and that we didn't need to lock down the country, enforce masks and vaccines,
ban other potential cures, fine people for sitting on park benches or shoot civilian protesters with
rubber bullets and pepper spray just for exercising their democratic right to protest.

The Australian government appeared to slavishly follow "orders" from elsewhere instead of reacting
with common sense. Long held beliefs around herd immunity and other basic tenants were thrown out
the window in a rush to comply with bizarre health practices from the USA and other countries. My own
simple knowledge of health and my immune system told me that almost every protocol and practice the
government recommended was either unnecessary or downright dangerous.

Simple "cures" like Vitamin D and C, healthy eating and exercise were not even mentioned in the media,
and yet that is what has kept me healthy my entire life (and I have yet to contract the dreaded Covid).
Australia was shut down for a few cases and now I know personally a few cases THIS WEEK and yet life
goes on. Doctors were gagged and not allowed to advise their patients correctly - "first do no harm"
went out the window in a rush to allow an untested vaccine to be tested on innocent and trusting
Australians. The harms done from this are still unfolding, sadly, as the test continues.

I felt ashamed to be Australian during the Covid years when various state governments (especially
Victoria's) enacted some of the most draconian rules in the world. The damage done to the economy,
people's mental health and most importantly to our trust in government, the media and our health
"experts" is irreparable.

If there is to be another pandemic (and since the definition of pandemic has been changed, there will
be) then I would hope that Australia would learn from our mistakes and act with rationality and
common sense next time.

Consult those who did not "comply" and learn from their wisdom.

Thank you.
