To: Office of Prime Minister and Cabinet

Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I Debra Yuille am an Australian Business Owner and It is my will that a Royal
Commission be instigated for full and proper investigation into the unprecedented
disruption and harm that Australia's response to Covid-19 has wrought on Australia and her
people.

Specifically:

            •    Vaccine procurement and Secret vaccine contracts
                 The Australian People whose taxes have/are paying for the Covid-19 mRNA
                 Treatments must know what the arrangements were/are with the Vaccine
                 Manufacturers. These must be made public. The secrecy around these
                 arrangements is unconscionable on every level.

            -    What is the cost of the Covid-19 injections to date
            -    What are Australia's ongoing commitments
            -    Why was enough product for up to or above 10 x injections for the Australian
                 population purchased initially as the public were being told that an initial injection
                 plus one follow up booster were a full course for 95% protection against infection
                 and transmission. On what were these demonstrably false figures based?

            -    Why and how was immunity for the manufacturers granted and is that immunity
                 legal in light of the trial data fraud (^^^Jdocuments (available in March 2022 on
                 court order after ^^Hsought to hide them for 75 years) containing hundreds of
                 adverse effects, and the deaths of 1223 people within 3 months of the trials showed
                 "intent to deceive and cause serious harm." https://phmpt.org/wp-
                 content/uploads/2021/11/5.3.6-postmarketing-experience.pdf (Note: the^^^^
                ■version of the mRNA treatment has now been removed in Australia, and the
                         ■version is responsible for more side effects than^^B).


            •    Vaccine mandates
            •    Vaccine injuries
            •    Mask mandates
            •    Lockdowns
            •    Misinformation and Disinformation in the legacy media, Celebrity
                 Endorsements from those with no medical training or credentials;
                 regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection and
                 transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting
                 of the injured.

            •    The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety.
            •    AHPRA silence on harm of the so-called vaccine and their action
                 along with ATAGI to silence the real Medical Profession.
       What were the Regulatory Bodies that were supposed to be working for the
       Australian people really doing and what was their motivation?

   -   Therapeutic Goods Administration - the TGA's complete maladministration in
       relation to approval of the novel mRNA treatments and their unexplainable lack of
       testing or checks on the contents, genotoxicity and long-term safety of the products
       is fairly easily explained by the fact they are a clear example of regulatory capture.
       They are 94% funded by the pharmaceutical companies whose products they are
       supposed to police. How did this happen and why was this not an obvious danger
       signal prior to Covid-19?

       Their complete lack of due diligence in relation to the glaring signals of the
       Covid-19 products danger since their implementation is only able to be
       described as malfeasance that has resulted in unnecessary death of
       Australian men, women and children, including the unborn.
   -   Australian Health Professionals Regulatory Agency - the gagging of the entire
       medical profession by AHPRA with its 9 March 2021 Position Statement - Registered
       health practitioners and students and COVID-19 vaccination was in all likelihood one
       of the darkest days for the Medical Industry in the history of this nation.

       It removed any remnants of Doctor /patient privilege, informed consent and the
       ability of Doctors to treat patients as individuals - the basis for providing the best
       treatment for each person as an individual using a physicians knowledge of their
       distinct history and circumstances being the bedrock of best practice.


   •   And why did we not follow the August 2019 comprehensive Australian
         Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza?
         Who was responsible for the complete non-adherence, indeed the opposite
         response, advised in the comprehensive 2019 Australian Health Management Plan
         for Pandemic (Influenza) and why did this happen?
https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/05/australian-health-
management-plan-for-pandemic-influenza-ahmppi.pdf

       It recommended against the most destructive of the Government responses
       including:
   -   Mask wearing - "No evidence" of effectiveness. Masking the entire, non-
       symptomatic population was not even considered.
   -   Border closures - International - "Overall, the quality of the evidence available about
       the effectiveness of border measures is low".
       Internal travel restrictions - Not recommended in general as benefits are likely to be
       minor. Effectiveness - Minor. Direct & Secondary costs - High"
   -   School closures - Proactive - "Not generally recommended. The level of disruption is
       likely to outweigh benefits". Reactive- "Not recommended unless the disease has
       high clinical severity or children are a group at risk of complications".
   -   Workplace closure - "Not generally recommended. Effectiveness - moderate. Direct
       costs & Secondary costs - High. Costs include effects on profits, availability of goods
       and services, and job security. Modelling has estimated the macroeconomic impacts
                   of school and workplace closure are likely to exceed costs caused by the pandemic
                   itself.
               -   Cancellation of mass gatherings - "Not generally recommended. Benefits are
                   uncertain. Secondary costs - High".

                   It recommended:
               -   Antivirals for treatment of cases - "Recommended for all cases during the Initial
                   Action stage. Benefits - Treatment may reduce symptoms and thus reduce morbidity
                   and mortality, and decrease disease transmission to contacts. It may also contribute
                   to the prevention of secondary bacterial infection.


That my human rights along with those of millions of my fellow countrymen and women
could be ignored and that we were summarily discriminated against because we declined to
participate in a medical experiment defies belief.

There has never been a time in history where those seeking to limit or withhold information
have been on the side of what is morally right.

An experimental treatment, with no safety data mandated on Australians is in breach of everything
from the Siracusa Principles to the Nuremberg Code and the Australian Immunisation Handbook.

The Royal Commission, must look at who pays and the instigation of Criminal proceedings against
those responsible.



Debra Yuille
