The purpose of the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the Inquiry) is
to identify lessons learned to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.
I live and work in rural NSW and found the Governments response to covid was nothing
short of disgraceful in the way people’s freedoms were taken away, free speech was
restricted and the loss of trust in many aspects of society was fostered by the actions of
Governments and bureaucrats treatment of people and information.
People should always have the freedom to choose what medical procedures are used on
their bodies, mandated vaccination took these rights away with no good reason, as they
failed to stop people catching or spreading covid.
Another example is the restriction of those who chose not to take the vaccine to enter
premises, work, visit people in hospitals etc. No good or effective reason for any of this yet
this was happening and it left people segregated in their own country. We also had People
sucha^______

^^^^^^^Myet no government or media too such disgusting comments to task on such
vile comments.
During the pandemic we saw people’s opinions and expert opinion restricted which was
disgusting and led to people not being able to get effective and balanced information to
make their own opinions. Medical experts who didn’t support the Government narrative had
their voices silenced on media platforms with so called fact checkers.
Trust was the greatest loss during the pandemic years. People need to be able to trust the
information given to them. Clearly people have lost trust with Government, media, Doctors
and each other.
The Government needs to actually give us the unedited facts and all the data available with
complete transparency, the trust Government tried to force needs to actually be earned.
Why we could not see the vaccine contracts as well as all the data supplied by
manufacturers and the government’s full data bases on the numbers hospitalised and died
for all cause by vaxed, unvaxed and by batches of vaccine. Some of this information was
given especially earlier on, but when the figures did not support vaccination they were
dropped, this was evident as each state stopped reporting Hospitalised/ICU and Deaths with
covid by Vaccination status when the figures did not suit. See attachments.
Trust was also lost when Governments media and social media would suppress, ignore,
ridicule or make claims of misinformation anything that was not supporting Government
directions. This is not how a free country should operate. Freedom of speech and an
unbiased media reporting facts is needed to keep trust in these institutions. The Government
becoming the biggest media advertiser during covid effectively paid them to do as the
government asked or risk losing money. Social media has also been shown to have been
influenced by Governments from around the world as seen by the release of files and
investigation into twitter in the USA. The Claims of independent fact checking also made a
mockery of people trust as these companies have been shown to be following directions by
those who pay them rather than follow facts, Again this was shown in US investigations.
The trust in the medical institutions and Doctors has been lost as Doctors who had
dissenting opinions of the Government were silenced/ reprimanded or lost their ability to
work. How can people trust medical advice from people who cannot speak freely without
risking ramifications? How can we trust the medical institutions that enforced discrimination
against those unvaccinated from entering hospitals, nursing homes etc., when they knew full
well Vaccination status did not increase the risk posed to patients, These same medical
professionals would have all known that a vaccine that did not stop you catching or
spreading the disease would not make those who took it less of a risk to others.
Perhaps less tiktok videos by nurses and more research into actual facts would have been
more helpful for all.
The removal of medical treatments that have been around for years and have an
outstanding safety profile also was a cause of the loss of trust in Government, Medical
institutions, Doctors and media. The ridicule, banning and silence of doctors of Ivermectin
showed that any alternative treatments were a threat to Government directions. People are
not stupid, if a medicine has been used for years safely and suddenly it’s banned, gives no
faith in the advice we were being given.
When people have their lively hood threatened by forced vaccine mandates, their freedom
to travel and freedom to enter business premises and sport depend on compliance rather
than freedom of choice, people have every reason to feel that we no longer live in a free
society that values the individual. It destroys trust in society in general as people are no
longer treated as equals but on your willingness to comply with government.
The lack of a full investigation into the covid pandemic and pandemic measures via a full
and open ROYAL COMMISSION gives no trust or confidence that any Government in
Australia wants to ensure that any future pandemic is avoided or the actions taken are the
most effective to protect the people and the economy.
Without a full and comprehensive ROYAL COMMISSION how can people have trust the
best decisions of the time were made and that future decisions will be in the best interest of
the people of Australia.
Trust is earned and cannot be forced upon people. The damage to society caused by a lack
of trust in government, media, medical institutions, doctors and each that reared its head
during the pandemic because of a lack of full transparency, suppression media, of freedom
of speech and the loss of the basic human right to choose what is put into their body and
restrictions to move freely will not if ever be forgotten.
Bart Brighenti
