 Monday, 6 November 2023


Alexandra Paine Submission to the Covid-19 response inquiry.
 Introduction (please note all links are coloured blue for accessibility)
 My name is Alex, I’m a 24 year old living in            live with multiple Disabilities; |
                                                  Hind more. In December of 2020 I was diagnosed with
                 | the treatment,that I am on to stop the progression of the disease makes me
severely immunocompromised by the ATAGI’s standards (See table 2a, CD-20 Antibodies). Because of this I
am at high risk for serious illness due to Covid 19. I am also on         which means that any and all mitigations
that I use to lower my risk of contractincK >vid 19 need to be cheap or government funded. I have had 5
vaccine doses, and one course c                I still wear an N95 everywhere I go.

 I will be exploring my personal experiences with regard to the terms of reference of;

 -Key health response measures

 -Broader health supports

 -Mechanisms to better target future (and I would argue CURRENT) responses to the needs of particular
 populations

 With this in mind, I share my experiences as a po r and Disabled person during the ingoing pandemic;

 My first issue is access to healthcare, due to the complete lack of proper safety mitigations for at risk and
 immunocompromised people I have not beer^an^tij^annot access healthcare safely; to outline this I share
 a recent experience I had when attending                          at                                it
     Jon the 27th of October 2023. I entered the hospital and got into the elevator to head up to then
^^^■(or medihotel as it’s more commonly known), after I entered the elevator I was followed by 3 staff
 members, two completely unmasked and one in a surgical mask being worn incorrectly. The two unmasked
 members started asking the third why he was masking, “have you got it” “no” he answered, “just my wife and
 kids”. So he’s an extremely close contact of 2 cases, could be carrying an asymptatic infection, coming to
 work in a hospital full of vulnerable patients and can’t even wear a surgical mask correctly. Once on the
 correct floor, I head down the hallway to the reception area for the medihotel. Only to be greeted with a big
 sign on the door saying “surgical masks required, Staff may elect to wear an N95” once I made it through
 check in and into the actual infusion centre, the nurse taking care of me was wearing her surgical mask inside
 out. With the white part facing out. She then asked me if I had taken my rapid test (a negative test is required
 for entry, and they send text reminders beforehand) I replied yes, it was negative. She then said she dn’t
 need to see it and she “trusted me”. She then repeated that for every person in the four person ^H room.
 So nobody was properly checked to have a negative RAT. I was the first person there, but throughout the day
 people arrived, and t ok off their masks after they were sitting down. No members of staff made any effort tc
 ask patients to keep their masks on. I was then stuck, as a severely immunocompromised person, in a room
 with a group of unmasked people, getting m         ^^H^hat makes me severely Immunocompromised, for over
 five hours. All of this means that I was unable to safely access critical healthcare that is vital to my wellbeing
 as a disabled person. For the following week, and for the entire day, I was constantly afraid that I would catch
 Covid and become seriously ill or hospitalised.

My second issue is lack of access to proper mitigations, firstly due to lack of affordability since the axing of
government funded programs, but also due to the fumbling of designing said programs properly. As a person
who catches public transport and can’t drive due to my Disabilities, once the state funded free RAT tests
through pharmacies was ended, I was not able to access free RATs through the library and community
centres program as there were no accessible options for me that were feasible for me to get to on public
transport, with most over an hour of travel away.

 Being classed as severely immunocompromised, I was one of the people who was classified as eligible to
 access             but due to multiple factors I was only able to receive one dose before the government
 stopped funding it through the PBS scheme at the end of 2022. One of the main reasons I was unable to
 access doses prior to that date was lack of proper education and awareness for medical practitioners about
 measures t( take to protect their immunocompromised patients. I presented the TGA website to my
 neurologist showing my eligibility and asked him to prescribe it, he was happy to do so but asked to see the
 rest of the website so that he could learn which of his other patients would be eligible. If there were better
 1
recourses and awareness for medical practitioners, more patients could easily and efficiently access
recourses that can help to prevent serious illness or death due to Covid 19.

Inability to access proper precautions that I am entitled to has been an ongoing theme throughout the
pandemic. This year on the Sth of February 2023, ATAGI released recommendations for a booster dose after
6 months for all vulnerable and at risk groups. I was part of that group, but I was not made aware of the
updated booster availability until the 22nd of September 2023, after the SECOND round of Smonthly be st er
advice was released which I only found out from Twitter. Because of the fact that booster advice was not
shared widely through the medical system or mainstream media, I was not made aware of this. In fact I had
actually asked my GP about this and she was not aware there was any indications that another booster dose
was available. If I had fair access to this information easily and reliably I could have had another be ster by
now and almost be eligible for my second of the year in December 2023. Instead I have not had a single dose
since December 2022. As a severely immuncompromised person this simply is not good enough. It is also
completely unacceptable that this kind of important and life saving information is only available to those of us
who are media literate and can find this information online. Doctors need to be fully aware of this information
so that they can be the ones to advise their at risk patients who are not as media literate, especially when one
of the main groups of people advised to have a booster are those aged over 65 & Disabled at risk people. We
should not bare the burden of having to source this information ourselves, This is not acceptable. I am not
medically allowed to get vaccinated within 30 days pre or post my                            3° । was only able to
get my first dose of 2023 on the 1 st of December. The last month of the year.

Another point I would like to raise is the ridiculous system to access antiviral treatment, he RS weosite
clearly outlines that in order to even receive PBS prices, you must test positive and get your script within 5
days, otherwise you pay full price. The full price of Paxlovid is 1,159$ someone on Disability pension like me
could simply not afford that. In order to do this, you need to realise you are sick, try a RAT, if that doesn’t
provide you with a positive you have to organise an appointment with your GP to get a referral for a PGR test.
Neither RAT'S or PCR tests are 9%. reliable. I personally tested negative on a PGR only to test positive a
few days later in 2022. Even if you manage to test positive, you really need to test positive on days 1 or 2, in
order to see your GP for an antiviral script, within the first 5 days? I don’t know a single person, including
myself, who can get a GP appointment within 3-5 days. Then you still have to arrange to somehow get the
script and have it sent to you? For someone like me who lives alone and has no family nearby, absolutely
none of this is accessible to me. Even if I could arrange a refferal to a PCR, I can’t access one. And I couldn’t
during 2020,21,22 either. There was absolutely nowhere near enough walk in centres and getting the at home
service to come and test you was a nightmare and they definitely didn’t have enough staff to see people
within a 5 day window. At home testing is now no longer even available, so someone in my position who does
not drive r have anyone who can drive them to a pathology centre, cannot even properly access a PCR test.
This forces people to be heavily reliant on RATS, which are much harder to test positive on in the first 5 day
window.

In order to give people with Disabilities and immunocompromised people access to safe and adequate care
when it comes to Covid 19, there needs to be better organisation and awareness of Covid 19 information and
materials. Hospitals and medical practices need to be better equipped with the correct information and tools
to provide adequate care for at risk groups.

The current (and previous) system for care means that people who are at risk to Covid are currently being
forced to carry the entire responsibility of their care and mitigations completely on their own, and given the
lack of access to the proper and correct and consistent information this means that vulnerable groups are
currently not being afforded the correct tools to keep themselves safe or get the correct care if they catch
Covid 19. And given the complete lack of public messaging about correct and useful mitigations to take to
protect oneself from Covid, this means that at risk people are currently at a very high chance of catching
Covid. I still see elderly people at the supermarket dousing themselves with hand sanitiser, but they are not
wearing a mask because they are not being given fair access to the correct information (hand sanitiser will
not save them from airborne virus particles.)

Staff of high risk essential environments should be required to wear N95s, ESPECIALLY when in spaces with
high risk patients (eg Oncology wards.) Employers should be required to give staff proper information and
education on what steps they need to be taking to keep patients safe. Specialists and Doctors should have
access to a portal for the clearest and best information about what to do to protect their patients, what
patients are eligible for booster vaccines, antivirals and protective treatments like Evusheld so that they can
properly care for their at risk patients. Patients should have access to a clear and concise website to
determine their own eligibility for such things and what steps they should be taking to protect themselves if
they so wish. You cannot have a personal responsibility strategy if you are not giving people the tools to even
take that responsibility in the first place. But at the absolute bare minimum disabled and at risk people
deserve to be able to safely and effectively receive their medical care without having to fight for the most
basic safety precautions.
2
