Dear Sir/Madam,

I would like to add my voice to the many citizens in Australia who have grave concerns about how the
'pandemic' was handled in Australia.

The main point of concern to me is the way in which both the NSW Government and Federal
Government delegated the decision of mandatory vaccination to employers. Employers must comply
with stringent Work Health and Safety Regulations. I believe that many employers mandated vaccination
purely to cover themselves legally and not to act in the best interests of their employees. There should
have been more clear direction from government to industry requiring justification of the requirement
for an individual to be vaccinated. The vaccination requested is a medical procedure which had not been
approved by existing government regulations, and had not been proved as being safe or effective. The
decision to vaccinate was delegated to persons without the knowledge to make an informed and
equitable judgement.

I was employed by^^^^^|and had been an employee for 35 years. Towards the end of the
'Pandemic' and ensuing lockdown ^^Jchanged the conditions of employee by insisting that all
employees must be vaccinated. I did not want to be vaccinated and was dismissed as I did not fulfil the
changed conditions of employment.

In my case it was completely practical to work remotely. I had been during this for almost 2 years during
the course of the 'pandemic'. It was not necessary for me to attend my home college as all my work
could be done on line. In fact, there is currently another teacher in the section in which I worked, who
has worked on line ever since the 'pandemic'. Like me they had no contact with other employees and
yet they were required to be vaccinated. They complied and did not lose their jobs. Vaccinated or
unvaccinated they would have been able to fulfil their duties, without posing a risk to other employees
or exposing themselves to the unknown risks of being vaccinated. Even if it was reasonable for th^
to mandate vaccination, and I don't believe it was reasonable, the mandate should have allowed for the
circumstances of an employee who did not want to be vaccinated because of their personal convictions
or situation. Also, it should have been considere^Hhe^n fact did not need to be vaccinated to provide
the risk mitigation perceived to be required by ■

I, like many Australians, lost my job because I did not want to undertake an unapproved medical
procedure that I believed would endanger my health. This situation arose because both the NSW and
Federal Governments abrogated their responsibility to uphold the rights and freedoms of the workforce
in Australia, the very core of the economic wellbeing of the nation.
