      Religious Freedom is a Non-derogable Human Right

                      "... even in time of public emergency"

Rita Joseph                              15th December, 2023



Recommendations:


      •   Given that religious freedom is a non-derogable human right under the

          international human rights instruments which the Commonwealth has ratified,
          this Inquiry should make a special study of the notable extent to which the right

          to freedom of assembly in churches, synogogues and mosques and the right to
          freedom of expression (including the singing of hymns) at religious venues was

          excessively restricted by impositions that were disproportionate to the actual

          public emergency threat.

      •   Given that, in the recent COVID emergency situation, State, Territory and

          Federal governments made serious mistakes that infringed unjustly on people

          of faiths, men, women and children, needing sincerely in that time of crisis, to
          gather in their churches, synogogues and mosques and to pray for God's

          blessings, healing and guidance as believers have done since time immemorial

          in even the most terrifying emergencies, it is important for the States,
          Territories and Federal authorities study and agree to abide by the Siracusa
          principles. See https://www.icj.org/wp-content/uploads/1984/07/Siracusa-
          principles-ICCPR-legal-submission-1985-eng.pdf



      •   Given that legal protection for religious freedom is the purview of the federal

          government, which has the authority when it comes to human rights violations

          to override state and territory laws, an agreement should be reached that, in

          future genuine emergency situations, where there is any inconsistency between

          state/territory and federal law when it comes to severely curtailing religious


1
             worship and practices in established religious venues, the federal law, consistent

             with the international human rights instruments which Australia has agreed,

             must prevail.


    Disrespecting the non-derogable human rights status of religious freedom
All religious belief or activity is lawful. Religious freedom is a non-derogable human right.


Under international human rights law, there is a universally agreed set of non-derogable
principles on which ideologically-defined 'lawful' encroachment cannot be justified. The

human right to freedom of religion or belief belongs to this category.

Religious rights and freedoms have been accepted and recognised by the international

community of States parties as peremptory norms, as jus cogens in nature by virtue of their

presence in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). It is the universal nature of non-derogable

human rights that States parties to the ICCPR may not derogate from them, not even 'in time
of national emergency'.

Article 4 of the ICCPR establishes religious freedom as a non-derogable right. It guarantees a
rightful immunity from coercion of interior and/or exterior acts contrary to conscience or

belief.

The morally and intellectually honourable Syracusa principles have set out some of the
important restrictions that must obtain against violations of non-derogable rights "even in
public emergencies".

Syracusa principles C. "Strictly Required by the Exigencies of the Situation"

          54. The principle of strict necessity shall be applied in an objective manner. Each
          measure shall be directed to an actual, clear, present, or imminent danger and may
          not be imposed merely because of an apprehension of potential danger. [Emphasis
          added]

Syracusa principles D. Non-Derogable Rights

          58. No state party shall, even in time of emergency threatening the life of the
          nation, derogate from the Covenant's guarantees of ... the right to recognition as a
          person before the law; and freedom of thought, conscience and religion. These
          rights are not derogable under any conditions even for the asserted purpose of
          preserving the life of the nation. [Emphasis added]

2
       64. In a public emergency the rule of law shall still prevail. Derogation is an
       authorized and limited prerogative in order to respond adequately to a threat to the
       life of the nation. The derogating state shall have the burden of justifying its actions
       under law. [Emphases added]

...not even "in time of public emergency"

Under international human rights law, States parties to the ICCPR may not derogate from the
universally recognized non-derogable right to religious freedom, not even 'in time of public
emergency'. The Commonwealth has solemnly committed to guaranteeing rightful immunity
from coercion of interior and/or exterior acts contrary to conscience or belief.

Indeed, no domestic human rights legislature may legitimately withdraw legal protection of

a non-derogable right. Legal protection for religious freedom is the purview of the federal

government, which has the authority when it comes to human rights violations to override

state and territory laws that fail to provide adequate protection. Where there is any

inconsistency between state and federal law in matters of protecting religious beliefs from

accusations of discrimination, the federal law prevails.


The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966) decrees in Article 50, that all

human rights provisions "shall extend to all parts of federal States without any limitations or

exceptions."


States parties to the ICCPR are obliged to reject any part of domestic law that
purports to authorise the abuse of the non-derogable human rights set out in
the Universal Declaration Article 18 and the ICCPR Articles 18 and 27 or the
removal of legal protection for 'freedom, either individually or in community
with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in worship,
observance, practice and teaching'.




3
