                                                                                15th December 2023




To Whom it may concern,




I am an Australian Citizen that was targeted by the Australian Government as one of the first to have
an experimental drug forced on me due to an outstanding health condition.

I work for myself and support my family.

As someone that did not comply to illegal Government pressure, my health and the health of my
family, has not been compromised due to experimental drugs.

It is my will as an Australian Citizen under the Commonwealth of the United Kingdom and her realms,
that the Australian Government execute a full Inquiry into the Covid - 19 Pandemic and all actions
taken by all Ministers and Judiciary staff, at all levels, in all departments and all affiliated persons,
and businesses, in all departments, public and private at all levels, including the Australian Health
Industry and the Australian media.

First and foremost, it is written in our law that all ministers be held accountable for all of their
statements, involvement and actions. Seldom few ministers involved, if any, can personally support
their claims relating to their actions, opinions or statements made during the "pandemic" due to lack
of expertise, credentials or credible data.

The Australian media and the Health Industry as a whole, are complicit in what can only be classed
as a one sided propaganda style campaign of safe and effective and every life matters for an
experimental drug that does not function or perform in the manner it was claimed to have
functioned.

Every measure that was rolled out for this "pandemic" was already known to have little or no effect
and cause more harm than good, from lockdowns all the way social distancing and masking. All
measures have since been reaffirmed by multiple specialists and organisations around the world as
being as such.

The Individual State Premiers of the Australian "National Cabinet" rolled out these varying
detrimental procedures and protocols with the mantra of safe and effective, every life matters and
take the experimental drugs or you'll be excluded from society, after the Federal Government
offered each Australian State and Territory substantial financial incentives to roll out "pandemic"
measures anyway.

In any other legal realm this would be seen as a bribe.

This whole orchestrated affair has been a massive breach of long standing human rights, especially
to bodily autonomy, freedom of movement and choice, the Nuremberg code and the Geneva
Convention.
Can the Australian Government explain to the people of Australia why they were allowed to exercise
their Rights to Bodily Autonomy and Freedom of movement under the Commonwealth Constitution
whilst they forced and mandated the people of Australia to comply, for reward of everyday
essentials and contact with family and friends or be cast out from society.

To approve forced administration of experimental drugs on any population, by anyone, especially by
defence force personal on their fellow countrymen, is not just a breach of human rights and an utter
disgrace, but could also be seen as a declaration of war due to potential Genocide or worse still
Democide.

This website was published on March 10th 2021.

https://www.wa.gov.au/government/publications/authorisation-supply-or-administer-poison-sars-
cov-2covid-19-vaccine-australian-defence-force-no-7-2021

 Following the link to this web page concludes that this document has been deleted or removed
from that site, being the public Western Australian Government website.

Article by Celia Farber of The Truth Barrier 11th December 2023

Former Italian Health Minister Roberto Speranza under investigation for homicide in his jurisdiction
after emails reveal concealment of evidence by his department related to death and serious side
effects related to the Covid - 19 vaccines.

Information flowing in to the Australian Senate from around the world, is now being presented by
Australian Senators on record.

Data and statements submitted on record to varying governments around the world now prove that
this "pandemic" was not what officials claimed it to be and that all measures including experimental
drugs were unwarranted.

Most recent valid statements made to members of the United Kingdom Parliament involving Steven
Kirsch, Dr. Peter McCullough, Dr. David Martin, Dr. Robert W Malone, Dr. Ryan Cole, Michael Yeadon,
Dr. Angus Dalgleish, Andrew Brigden Member of Parliament and varying United Kingdom Ministers
from the House of Commons and The House of Lords.

Can the Australian Government explain why they are taking orders without question from a foreign
medical regulator.

It is my will that the Australian National Cabinet and all associated ministers and staff provide the
instrument that it draws power from under the Commonwealth Constitution of the United Kingdom
and her realms.

It is my will that all levels of the Australian Government, all branches of any related medical industry,
any media entity involved, residing within our lands and laws, be investigated for actions and
behaviours that facilitated what can only be seen as a crime against the people of Australia and the
people of Earth as a whole.

It is my will that the Australian Government allows more to time and improved advertising to the
Australian people in request for written submissions in this matter.
