CWTH Government Covid Response Inquiry-Terms of Reference.

Please find my submission below.

Although very busy Christmas period I felt it absolutely necessary to put forward this
submission.

   1. The Federal Govt & States completely lied about the vaccine efficacy of all the so
      called covid vaccines. Federal Govt pushed that they were "safe and effective" a
      million times over via the media to manipulate Australians into taking the vaccine.
      This was a complete lie the vaccines were infact the complete opposite - "unsafe and
      ineffective".
   2.     We were told the vaccines would prevent us catching Covid by Fed Govt, another lie.
   3.     We were told the vaccines stopped transmission by Fed Govt, yet another lie.
   4. We were told to vaccinate our children to protect nan and gramps, a lie. The children
      were perfectly safe catching covid but look how many kids died and were injured by
      the vaccines.
   5. The TGA hid death rates of children in their reporting to manipulate the public into
      vaccinating children, this is shocking.
   6.     set up Vax buses at the^^^^^^^H Schoolies event in 2021
       attended by^^^|Yr 12 children and told these kids they all had to be vaccinated
       before getting their wrist band for the event. This meant some kids were getting
       jabbed in vax buses and heading straight to the party Zone for a 5 days of drinking,
       dancing, potentially party drugs, dehydration in the sun all day and all this with a
       f re s h
                     It was shocking putting these kids at such great risk. I saw these kids
       running out of the vaccine bus, they didn't want the jab but they wanted to attend
       their leavers event. This was^^^^^^^^^The Federal Government should have
      intervened in such a case, the Federal Govt had a duty of care.
   7. Approx $1200 from each taxpayer's pocket was spent on these useless vaccines and
      half of them were thrown out as the public were quickly seeing how many family and
      friends were dying from the vaccines or having extreme adverse events, we could see
      how totally ineffective the vaccines were. It was a complete waste of our hard-
      earned money and this cash went right into the bank accounts of Big Pharma.
   8. And why was Scomo allowed to appoint himself on 5 different ministries all in secret
      without us knowing? It was all so deceitful. And you wonder why people don't trust
      politicians!
   9. And why was Ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine banned? I know why, because if
      there was an alternative to the vaccine the Govt could not put in place these vaccine
      mandates. As we can see now from all the peer reviewed research, which was
      available at the time and grown since, that these drugs were extremely helpful in
      preventing deaths and minimising covid symptoms. It was all a big lie. If federal Govt
      would have stepped in and allowed these medications there would have not been
      nearly as many deaths. This action in my mind was^^^^^^|
   10.   And why didn't the Govt step in to prevent
      ^^^^^^^^^^|This was shocking what McGowan got away with.
11. Why did the Federal Govt allow^^^^^^to punish the unvaccinated (which he said
    in his media statement), he was punishing unvaccinated by not letting them go into
    bottle shops, gyms, art galleries, theatres, movies, the zoo etc, while those jabbed
    with a useless ineffective vaccine were permitted. This caused great psychological
    harm, especially to unvaccinated kids with McGowan making out how bad they were
    and saying he was punishing them. This was shocking and there should have been
    Federal Govt intervention in such a case^^^^^Hin WA.
12.       And the treatment of all those harmed by the vaccines both dead and injured has
    been horrific, there has been little acknowledgment or financial assistance.
13. The masks were proven scientifically now to be ineffective, they were just a scare
    campaign in my mind. The social distancing was proven to be ineffective, again
    another scare campaign in my mind.
14. The Fed Government should have stepped in to prevent the mandates enforcing
    people to be vaccinated or lose their jobs, or get vaccinated or you can't attend
    University. This was an abomination, it was a total violation of our freedoms and the
    Nuremberg Code. These work mandates were a complete violation, and the Fed
    Government should have stepped in immediately condemning these mandates and
    calling them out for what they were, a violation of the Nuremberg Code. So many
    Australians were abhorrently coerced into getting vaccinated and this was a crime.
15.       In terms of my personal family, my mother-in-law
                                                                           was not on any
    medication at all completely healthy and she died from her 4th Moderna shot. She
    was unwell




                       - she had 2 AZ jabs and 2 Moderna Jabs. My father also had
           after taking his 3rd AZ jab along
                                                                               Also his




16. My niece and
                        after their vaccines. Neither of them wanted the jabs one bit
   they were both forced to under complete duress of losing their jobs. My 2 brothers
   also had injuries from the vaccine,

                                                                My best friend's sister
                                                                               A Chaplain
   I work with,
                                                                   I could write a book on
   all the vaccine injuries and deaths I know about - it is shocking. And the amount of
   friends and people I have heard of who have had^^^Bflare up after years of
   remission is shocking. Apparently,
   after the vaccines the immune system was completely compromised and couldn't
   keep             under control. The Federal Government should have had the TGA
   test these vaccines and investigate the vaccine companies thoroughly as apparently
       all these adverse events happened in the trials. There were also people in the vaccine
       trials who ended up                                  I feel this is complete negligence by
       the Fed Govt and their regulation of these vaccines.
   17. And all this carnage, havoc and mandates over something shown to be not much
       worse than the common cold. This whole Covid Response needs a massive
       investigation, it's been "duty of care at its worst and corruption at its best". How can
       the Australian public ever trust our Government again after such horrific acts.
   18. I feel that State Govt's performed with extreme overreach with their lockdowns and
       closures. Fed Govt should have not permitted such extremely harmful lockdowns.
       Harmful to our mental health especially kids and teens, harmful to our kids education
       not being able to go to school, increased suicides, huge business/financial
       implications. The list goes on! How could Federal Government have not stepped in?
       How did the Government allow such desecration of our people and the economy?
       And all for what? A virus little worse than a cold. The Government and State
       Government actions were shocking.
   19. This whole COVID time span needs a Royal Commission or a full-blown independent
       investigation into what took place in our country.



The highest and best wishes for your inquiry.
