Submissions to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry



Please find below my response regarding the Covid 19 inquiry. My comments are made with respect
to a number of the headings outlined in the Terms of Reference.



Governance, including roles and responsibilities

The biggest issue was the imposition of State and Territory border controls and the different rules
being applied by each of them.

It felt like we were living in separate Countries and people could not travel to see loved ones who, in
some cases, were seriously ill and or close to death.

This strategy proved particularly challenging for those people living close to a border in terms of
accessing health services and getting to and from work.

My suggestion would be to have one consistent approach Australia wide.



Key health response measures

The implementation of lockdowns, rings of steel and curfews was abhorrent. This was particularly
significant in Victoria where the lockdown durations were some of the longest in the world. I suspect
that this resulted in significant mental health issues.

The research being presented throughout the Pandemic was promoted by certain experts. However,
some experts with differing views were shut down and the science was therefore biased to a certain
outcome.

Going forward we need to consider the broader health implications and limit lockdowns. In addition,
all qualified expert views need to be sought out with a view to reaching better policy outcomes.



Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations



Mechanisms adopted appeared to be a one size fits all. However, it was clear very early in the
Pandemic that the virus particularly impacted certain communities e.g. elderly and those with
existing health problems. In addition, the evidence indicates that the vaccination never prevented
you getting covid or stopped transmission. Therefore, there was no reason for vaccinating healthy
people.

Following Government communications (supported by the Media), a number of organisations
imposed vaccination mandates on their workforce. Those choosing not to get vaccinated for
whatever reason were subsequently treated as second class citizens. This in my view was coercion
and some people effectively didn't have a choice in the matter. To make matters worse a number of
people were subsequently injured by the vaccination.

In future, everybody needs to be presented with all the data and have a choice.
Even now excess deaths play out with little analysis or comment. This needs to be addressed.

Overall, what we needed was a much more nuanced approach based on risk factors.



International polices to support Australians at home and abroad

A close family member of ours died during the pandemic and we were not allowed to go to his
funeral. We felt ashamed of our own Country.

Certain medications were banned and dismissed without foundation. Ivermectin was shown to help
by a number of medical reviews but people were prevented from accessing it. How may people
subsequently died?

In future, we need to be more compassionate and we need to ensure that all available treatments
are made available.



Thank you for allowing this submission.




15 Dec 2023
