           Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
To, and for the consideration of, whomever it may concern.
In February of the year 2020, the characteristic medical definition of ‘Corona Virus
Diseases’ was; ’’Corona Viruse Diseases are the second most prevalent viral form
associated with the symptomatic presentation of the ‘Common Cold’”.
By late March 2020, that definition had been effectively expunged, as had records,
and all general awareness of, the 53 pre-existent endemic Corona Virus variants
identified at that time.
This critical information was criminally replaced with an all encompassing
COVID-19, and an accompanying raft of identifying diagnostic parameters
encompassing EVERY conceivable symptom of respiratory, digestive, and
neurological disease, accompanying corrupt and ineffective pathology measures
and protocols.
The emergency response measures mandated by untrained bureaucrats lacking
ANY diagnostic, or practising medical credentials, rivalled those of numerous
global-pandemic Hollywood blockbusters, and in conjunction with historically
negligent critical care protocols, resulted in the immediate, and needless deaths of
untold numbers of our societies most vulnerable, these self-same deaths occurring
in the MOST inhumane conditions of complete social isolation.
The catastrophic psychological impact of ignorant draconian control measures, that
rendered absolutely NO beneficial clinical, or regulating effect, upon two entire
generations of young Australians is incalculable, and the rush to implement
mandatory experimental vaccination with corrupted and ineffective vaccine
protocols, has cost, and will likely continue to cost, the once free people of this
country for decades to come.
The financial consequences of desperate, and irrational lockdowns have resulted in
a crippling increase in national sovereign debt, and the annihilation of entire
sectors of the business trading, and commercial real estate industries.
Hand in hand with an all but unrecoverable debasement of the public's trust in
ALL arms, departments, and organisations of, aged, community, public, and
private health care provision.
The reality is, in concert with the abject failure of the legislative, judicial, and
policing arms of all state governments, the only satisfactory, and restorative
measure likely to remotely restore national cohesion, and confidence in
bureaucratic, and/or elected government. Would be the establishment of numerous
simultaneous investigative Royal Commissions, and the prosecution for Crimes
against Humanity, of hundreds if not thousands of government officers, including
both elected and unelected officials.
Any suggestion that this nation, the Commonwealth of Australia, should under
ANY circumstance be treaty bound to the authority of an unelected foreign
international body, vis a vis the WHO, is not only illogical, and irrational, but in
the authors opinion an act of Treason, and any supporting, or advocating
organisation, council, or individual, according to past unconstitutional, and illegal
act or representation, so defined, should be charged, accorded due process,
convicted,|




Let the truth be revealed and justice be done, that confidence and hope might be
restored
I remain a loyal, patriotic, and subject citizen of the Commonwealth of Australian
States and Territories.
Yours, Michael Joseph Shearer,
