Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission and raise my views and experiences
abouHhe Government’s COVID-19 response. As an international student who was in
     I it the start of the pandemic, I have witnessed poor systematic coordination to this
panoemic and the appalling loss of life that came as a result of a poor government response.

I hope that the inquiry focuses on pandemic prevention. More than any other global
catastrophic risk, we are able to prevent novel pathogens from emerging and to identify and
eliminate them if they do. Given the huge human and economic costs of pandemics - and
that pandemics worse than COVID-19 are possible - prevention should be our top priority.

The paper “The costs and benefits of primary prevention of zoonotic pandemics” (Bertstein
2022) makes the economic case for a focus on pandemic prevention. The paper shows that
- even on pessimistic assumptions and without considering the potential impact of emerging
technologies - significant investment in pandemic prevention is overwhelmingly justified.

In light of that analysis, the new Australian Centre for Disease Control should focus on
efforts to prevent novel pathogens from emerging and being able to control them if they do.


My submission goes primarily to ‘preventive health measures’ in terms of reference 3.

Sources:

The costs and benefits of primary prevention of zoonotic pandemics - PMC (nih.gov)

Indoor Air Quality could make a big difference, including emerging tech such as far UV-C

The vast majority of Australians can access clean, safe, and pathogen-free drinking water.
Further to Terms of Reference 2,1 want to see Australians have comparable access to clean,
safe and pathogen-free air. This would be helpful for the ongoing COVID pandemic and for
any future pandemic - while also providing co-benefits for individual health and the national
economy.

Cholera, a water-borne bacterial disease, caused more than 127,00 deaths in Great Britain
in the mid-1800s. Radical improvements in sanitising drinking water as a public health
measure have effectively ended waterborne disease in industrialised countries.

The reduction of airborne diseases through clean indoor air is yet to receive the same
systematic attention, despite the health and economic burden this class of disease places on
Australia. Every winter, seasonal influenza-like illness (ILI) burdens the Australian healthcare
system as Australians present with symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, and fatigue.
In 2022, there were 9,440 reported COVID-19 and 308 influenza-associated deaths. It is my
hope that improving indoor air quality (IAQ) can reduce the transmission of airborne
pathogens, thus reducing the occurrence of ILI and its associated death toll. Reduced
infection rates will also result in an increase in the productivity of Australia’s workforce
through reducing the number of days that Australians take sick-leave to care for themselves
and their loved ones. This will also reduce the burden on Australia’s healthcare system,
specifically on GPs and hospitals who would otherwise have to treat patients with ILI.

Despite the obvious benefits, I worry that clean indoor air suffers from a “tragedy of the
commons” as it is a public good that requires widespread adoption to yield substantial
benefits. Just like clean drinking water, coordinated action is required. As such, I believe this
Inquiry is well placed to recommend that Australian governments do more to encourage and
accelerate the improvement of indoor air quality. Higher-risk indoor environments - such as
education facilities, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and hospitals, food service,
public assembly spaces, shopping centres, offices and places of worship - can be
incentivised and supported to improve their indoor air quality through building standards,
rebates, tax deductions, or other financial mechanisms. This would allow Australians to
enjoy the benefits of these facilities and services with a significantly lower risk of exposing
themselves to pathogens.

Unlike disease-specific vaccinations, delivering safe air is pathooen onosti^nd can reduce
the speed at which future novel pathogens infect communities.                      report “Air
Safety to Combat Global Catastrophic Biorisk” provides modelling for a scenario involving
another pandemic of RO = 3, similar to the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in a city of 2
million people. Without any behaviour changes or IAQ improvements, there would be
365, DO infections after 3 weeks. With indoor air quality interventions reducing respiratory
disease infections by just 30% to an RO of 2.1, after 3 weeks there would only be 9,797
infections. This modelling shows that even modest reductions can flatten curves and buy
time for medical countermeasures and healthcare systems. As such, IAQ interventions could
shorten lockdowns, lower the likelihood of quarantine leaks and perhaps be able to contain
and eliminate a novel pathogen before a pandemic begins. IAQ interventions also don’t
require behaviour change - like mask wearing - which can be challenging to achieve.

I think the inquiry should recommend that Australia pursue policies to make indoor air as free
from pathogens as drinking water. With simple practices like ventilation, existing filtration
technologies, and emerging pathogen inactivation technologies, like far-UVC, this goal is
within reach.

Citations:

Australian Government, Department of Health and Aged Care, ‘National 2022 Influenza Season
Summary’ (2022)

Air Safety to Combat Global Catastrophic Biorisk, 1Day Sooner & Rethink Priorities

In a worse pandemic, next-generation PRE may be essential to keep critical infrastructure
                                     functioning.

The terms of reference refer to support for industry and business, including in responding to
supply chain, transport and labour shortage issues. No doubt, when hearing evidence on this
topic, the Inquiry will receive submissions from the industry which boil down to seeking
additional government support.

While I think it is right that the Inquiry turns its mind to supporting industry and business - I
would encourage the inquiry to do that through the lens of the public interest. Specifically, in
a future pandemic worse than COVID-19, what is it that the public needs from industry and
how can the Inquiry’s recommendations ensure we are in a position to receive it?
We know that, during critical stages of the pandemic, Australia had difficulty acquiring
adequate vaccines, PPE and rapid antigen tests. A lack of reagents also inhibited testing in
the early stages of the pandemic.

In a future worse pandemic, it might be that supply chain breakdowns and labour force
shortages lead to far worse conseguences. Although COVID was challenging, there was
never a suggestion that the power might go out or that food would not be available. But
COVID did show us just how brittle modern “just in time” supply chains can be. If what
happened to toilet paper instead happened to food or liguid fuel, the conseguences could be
catastrophic. Similarly, if the workforce shortages that hit the meat industry instead hit the
power grid operators, the conseguences could be societal collapse. Overall, there’s a sense
in which modern society is far more brittle than historical societies that endured pandemics.
In a modern society, our lives depend on interactions with people hundreds or thousands of
kilometres away who we have never met. This has never been the case historically.

This observation leads to two conclusions:

First, the importance of pandemic prevention is paramount. If a pandemic could plausibly
cause complete social collapse, it’s essential that we identify all the vectors by which
pandemics could begin and work hard domestically and globally to address them.

Second, in the event that such a pandemic does occur, we can’t be in the position of having
to solve problems like defining essential workers or mapping supply chains on the fly through
ad hoc approaches like the National Coordination Mechanism. Instead, we need to have a
robust national plan for a pandemic worse than COVID that is regularly exercised with
industry and civil society organisations as well as international partners. Exactly where the
pressure points are will change rapidly, and the lessons we learned from COVID are unlikely
to remain true in 10 or 30 years from now. Only robust planning and regular exercising will
ensure we maintain and build the knowledge necessary for the future.

The notable public health challenges of history have been solved by innovative people
bringing new ideas and perspectives to the challenge of health. As the scope of public health
has grown, so has its ability to improve longevity and guality of life.

The terms of reference of this inguiry are fundamentally about doing better in the future.
Given how terrible future pandemics could be - the best thing the Inguiry could do for the
future is to prioritise pandemic prevention, including the novel ways pandemics could occur
in the future. While that will reguire uncomfortable thinking about unexpected topics and
emerging technologies, these are the issues that could have the biggest impact towards
securing a healthier future.
