Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission



Further scope is needed to investigate both the Commonwealth and State Governments' roles and
decision- making processes. It appears that the Federal Govt's is not serious about learning from
mistakes made in Australia's response to Covid-19. Why was only one week given as the submission
period? Why was it also, not well advertised?



PREAMBLE

I am referring to the Covid Era as from March 2020 to present as some mandates still hold for certain
groups/occupations in Australia.

I was and am still concerned about the overreach of both the Commonwealth and State
Governments to make powerful decisions that affected people's jobs, livelihoods, health and
everyday living experiences and that overrode the individual decision making over personal health.
Never before has a government taken on such powers with such little information. Information was
available from many scientists and epidemiologists but only opinions that were in agreement with
government organisations heavily influenced by non-government entities were listened to.

I want to see the return of Australia as a free country with respect for human rights, including the
right to make decisions about personal health without coercion and threat of punishment.

I will raise some issues with direct reference to the relevant terms of reference below:

    1.   "Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
         and territory governments , national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
         National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee)
         and advisory bodies supporting responses to Covid-19.


There are many issues here, including responses that appeared to be unlawful and violate human
rights. They need to be looked at to learn lessons for the future.

    a) It was known by early 2021 that the vaccines could not stop infection nor transmission and
       thus the case for vaccine mandates collapsed. Indeed, in principle, it is unrealistic to expect
       intramuscular injections to ever prevent respiratory infections. There needs to be an account
       of why this information was ignored.
    b) By June of 2020 it was apparent that the case fatality rate was nowhere near the 4%
       predicted and looked to be in the range 0.2-0.3% thus greatly reducing the risk/benefit
       assessments. Why was this ignored?
    c) Prior infection with SARS CoV2 was ignored as a cause for exemption from the vaccine
       mandate. This flies in the face of the basic principles of immunology.
    d) Except for approximately the first two weeks, while the situation was being assessed, no
       Australian citizens should have been refused entry (or had limits placed on numbers) to
       return from overseas. Many people were left overseas in precarious situations unable to
       return to their home country. Many were advised by the Australian Govt early in the Covid
       Era to 'stay put' if in safe circumstances overseas. Some were unable to return early on
       because of a variety of circumstances. When these people were eventually allowed back in,
       they should never have had to endure such strict circumstances of being locked up in small
        hotel rooms and having to pay dearly for the horror, both emotionally and financially. It was
        unnecessary and had no scientific backing for its execution. Covid tests were compulsory
        with threat of extra weeks in hotels at the expense of the returning citizen.

b) The National Cabinet has no basis in the Constitution and undermine the rule of law including our
emergency laws which lay out the decision-making processes, and transparency measures, which are
designated to protect in times such as these.

c) The National Cabinet has not released its minutes so that the public can hold them accountable for
their decisions. This reduces trust. The government should be accountable to the people. It does not
appear to have been accountable at all.

d) The Westminster system sustained a blow by the then prime minister taking on Ministerial
positions which even the governor general was not given the opportunity to object to. This should
have been clear to the people of Australia and not done in secrecy.

e)The Federal Gov't, by not objecting, in effect allowed the state governments to create borders that
locked out people from other states, and even residents of the same state who wished to return
home. People's lives were heavily negatively impacted by these state border closures and in some
instances were even killed by the closures.

f)The federal gov't stood by and did not condemn the states' mandates for an experimental (only
emergency approved) vaccine which violated human rights by assuming power over individuals'
rights of autonomy over their own bodies. This went against the Nuremberg Code and the Federal
Gov't stood by and condoned this behaviour of the states. The Inquiry needs to investigate this, and
states' banning of treatments, forcing of PRE such as masks, spending on and use of quarantine
facilities as well as public health messaging.

g) Unnecessary deaths due to the disposing, by the Fed Govt of the many doses of
hydroxychloroquine donated by Clive Palmer. That, and other treatments such as ivermectin, known
to be effective, were demonised and banned, creating a criminal charge if a medical professional
prescribed them. This needs to be investigated. Investigation is also needed into whether these
treatments were simply discounted, to pave the way for emergency approval to be given for the
vaccines, when the emergency approval could not be given if there were effective treatments
available.

h)The Federal Government should have should have ensured that emergency approved MRNA
based vaccines were assessed as Genetically Modifies Organisms as that is what they are. They
should have complied with safety standards. The pollutant DNA found in these vaccines should also
have been safety checked. The Fed Gov't should have ensured that this was done.

i)The post covid excess mortalities should be investigated for possible links to effects of the vaccines.



2. Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First
Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities)

j) As early as April 2020, data was available from other countries showing the tiny risk of effects from
covid on most of the population. In future, risk profiles should be done when assessing the need for
draconian measures such as closing businesses, which in many cases were financially ruined, border
closures, lockdowns, pushing of vaccines as the one and only answer to the problem. This needs to
be investigated so that it is never allowed to happen again.

k)AII levels of government should be required to release information to the people from every
meeting . The government is the servant of the people. The people are not the servants of the
government. The government is paid for by the people and it should serve the people and be
transparent to the people. All minutes from all meetings should be released to the public.

I) No government in Australia should ever mandate medical procedures on the people of Australia.
Uncoerced consent should be a requirement for any medical procedure. Certainly, no threat of job
loss or any other hardship should ever be acceptable in Australia.



I hope that the responses by the various levels of government are fully investigated, and that people
are held to account for any of the egregious actions of all levels of government in Australia.
