To: The Committee
COVID-19 Response Inquiry

14 December 2023

                                 Submission to COVID-19 Response Inquiry
My submission focuses on the role of government (Federal and State) and those ministers, various politicians and
health spokespersons who claimed that the EXPERIMENTAL gene therapy products produced by Pfizer and
Moderna (in particular) were "Safe and Effective" when they were not. Many of those 'jabbed' have suffered
debilitating health impacts including DEATH. Many of these deaths have been kept hidden from being published.
The then Health Minister ^^^^^^tated in the media that "The world is in the largest vaccine trial ever", and
he also denied there had been any deaths from COVID — https://rumble.com/vlrlwq8-australian-health-
minister-greg-hunt-claiming-that-no-one-died-of-covid-19-.html


Request to the Committee
Throughout the so-called 'pandemic' the list below identifies certain features of government mismanagement or
practices that indicate these bodies have been run by either 'corrupt' or incompetent people.

   •    Mask mandates when scientific evidence proves masks are
        ii    to reduce the spread of COVID.

   •         The r'.. ■jp •• ■      ■■■   o■   -v s

   •   Lock-downs caused mental problems throughout the
       community

   •   Vaccine mandates broke many laws - Nuremburg and our
       Constitution Section 51 s.XXXIII (A)

   •         Official misinformation — particularly from the TGA

   •         Media censorship of well credentialed doctors who opposed the government's narrative

   •         Vaccine injuries—many of which were hidden from public view

   •         The de-registration of doctors who expressed opposition to the vaccines

   •         The role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors

   •        The poor treatment of vaccine victims who lost their health; causing their ability to work and live
        normally.

Ordinary Australians affected by the COVID jab do
not want an parliamentary inquiry run by
politicians that becomes a whitewash—meaning,
nothing to see here!

To avoid this happening;

  I DEMAND THAT A ROYAL C0MMNISSI0N BE
    ESTABLISED TO INVESTIGATE ALL ASPECTS
 RELATED TO THE ABOVE BULLET-LISTED POINTS.
                                                                         'VACCINE CLAIMS SCHEME': COMPENSATION DELAYS
Thank you.                                                                                         REAL NEWS,~HONEST VIEWS.

                                                         Liberal MP Russell Broadbent is advocating on behalf of the thousands of Australians who have experienced an
                                                         adverse reaction after getting a COVID-19 vaccination. “They feel  they are not being heard, they don't feel like.




                                                         This 5 minute video sums up a number of the bullet points above.
                                                                                    (Click link)
Alan Manson
