     1. I am Arjay Martin and hold various qualifications including, relevantly, a Juris Doctorate law degree from Bond
        University
     2.      I only found out about this inquiry, so am doing a rushed submission.
     3. I was also Australia's first Covid Restriction Protester (starting 6 April 2020), protesting the draconian and illegal
        measures, & had probably Australia's first Covid Related Court Case (which concerned the protests, and lost on a
        technicality that Protest related court cases cannot be appealed, no matter how egregious; I tired getting Covid
        Restriction fines to challenge the law and police would look me up and then refuse to fine me).
     4.      The measures were illegal, not only on Commonwealth Constitutional Grounds, particularly:
        (a)             s 51(ix) combined with ss 69 & 84, as States had the power of Quarantine removed from them.1
        (b) S 51(xxiiiA) as no Government in Australia has power of'Civil Conscription', this includes also forcing
            medical staff to do, or not do, certain treatments (e.g. ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, vaccines, vaccines to be
            able to work generally-even in non clinical settings, etc.); please see for instance, the High Court's
            interpretation in BMA v Cth., & “Devaluation of a Constitutional Guarantee: The History of Section 51(xxiiiA)
            of the Commonwealth Constitution”.2
        (c) That there is no power granted to Government to allow for 'Civil Conscription' of people outside of the
            provision of “medical and dental services”.
        (d)             Breaches to s 92 with the free movement(intercourse) of people and trade, e.g.:3
             i. in Qld there was a 50km movement limit applied to people who were not specifically named in quarantine
                  orders, and 500km for those in the 'outback', &
             ii. The internal (State and Territory) border closures, that also effected 'boarder town' residents and workers
                  even more.
             iii. Please see in particular the “Tasmanian Lobsters” High Court case:4
                  23. The two elements in s.92 which provide an arguable foundation for giving the section a wider operation
                  with respect to trade and commerce than thatforeshadowed by its history are the reference to ''intercourse”
                  and the emphatic words ''absolutelyfree”. A constitutional guarantee offreedom of inter-State intercourse,
                  if it is to have substantial content, extends to a guarantee ofpersonalfreedom "to pass to andfro among the
                  States without burden, hindrance or restriction”. (Gratwick v. Johnson (1945) 70 CLR 1, atp 17.) Ifs.92
                  were to be viewed in isolation from its history, the attachment of the guarantee to trade and commerce
                  along with intercourse might suggest that inter-State trade and commerce must also be left without any
                  restriction or even regulatory burden or hindrance. That is not to suggest that every form of intercourse
                  must be left without any restriction or regulation in order to satisfy the guarantee offreedom. For example,
                  although personal movement across a border cannot, generally speaking, be impeded, it is legitimate to
                  restrict a pedestrian's use of a highway for the purpose of his crossing or to authorize the arrest of a
                 fugitive offender from one State at the moment of his departure into another State. It is not necessary now to

1 A) Part V.—Powers of the Parliament, s 51. Legislative powers of the Parliament.
             The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the
    Commonwealth with respect to:...
    (ix.) Quarantine.
B) s 69. Transfer of certain departments.
             On a date or dates to be proclaimed by the Governor-General after the establishment of the Commonwealth the following departments
   of the public service in each State shall become transferred to the Commonwealth:—
                Posts, telegraphs, and telephones:
                Naval and military defence:
                Lighthouses, lightships, beacons, and buoys:
                Quarantine.
   But the departments of customs and of excise in each State shall become transferred to the Commonwealth on its establishment.
C) s 84. Transfer of officers.
Transfer of officers.
             When any department of the public service of a State becomes transferred to the Commonwealth, all officers of the department shall
   become subject to the control of the Executive Government of the Commonwealth. ...
2
A) Part V.—Powers of the Parliament, s 51. Legislative powers of the Parliament.
             The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the
    Commonwealth with respect to:...
    (xxiiiA.) The provision of maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child endowment, unemployment, pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital
   benefits, medical and dental services (but not so as to authorize any form of civil conscription), benefits to students and family allowances.
B) British Medical Association v The Commonwealth [1949] HCA 44; 79 CLR 201 https://jade.io/article/64624.
C) Mendelson, Danuta — "Devaluation of a Constitutional Guarantee: The History of Section 51 (xxiiiA) of the Commonwealth Constitution"
    [1999] MelbULawRw 14; (1999) 23(2) Melbourne University Law Review 308.
   http://www5.austlii.edu.au/au/joumals/MelbULawRw/1999/14.html .
3 s 92. Trade within the Commonwealth to be free.
             On the imposition of uniform duties of customs, trade, commerce, and intercourse among the States, whether by means of internal
   carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free. ...
4 Cole v Whitfield (1988) 165 CLR 360 https://iade.io/article/67418.
                consider the content of the guarantee offreedom of various forms of inter-State intercourse. Much will
                depend on the form and circumstance of the intercourse involved. But it is clear that some forms of
                intercourse are so immune from legislative or executive interference that, ifa like immunity were accorded
                to trade and commerce, anarchy would result. However, it has always been accepted that s.92 does not
                guarantee freedom in this sense, that is, in the sense of anarchy. (See, e.g., Duncan v. Queensland (1916) 22
                CLR 556, atp 573; Freightlines Construction Holding Ltd v. New South Wales (1967) 116 CLR 1, atpp 4­
                5; (1968) AC 625, atp 667.) Once this is accepted, as it must be, there is no reason in logic or
                commonsense for insisting on a strict correspondence between the freedom guaranteed to inter-State trade
                and commerce and that guaranteed to inter-State intercourse.

                 24. What we have just said is likewise an answer to the objection that the words ''absolutely free" are
                 inconsistent with any interpretation of the section that concedes to inter-State trade no more than a freedom
                from burdens of a limited kind, whether discriminatory or otherwise. Implicit in the rejection of the notion
                 that the words "absolutelyfree" are to be read in the abstract as a guarantee of anarchy is recognition of
                 the need to identify the kinds or classes of legal burdens, restrictions, controls or standards from which the
                 section guarantees the absolute freedom of inter-State trade and commerce. As we have seen, the failure of
                 the section to define expressly what inter-State trade and commerce was to be immune from is to be
                 explained by reference to the dictates ofpolitical expediency, not by reference to a purpose ofprohibiting
                 all legal burdens, restrictions, controls or standards. In that context, to construe s.92 as requiring that
                 inter-State trade and commerce be immune only from discriminatory burdens of a protectionist kind does
                 not involve inconsistency with the words "absolutely free": it is simply to identify the kinds or classes of
                 burdens, restrictions, controls and standards from which the section guarantees absolute freedom.

                 33. The concept of discrimination in its application to inter-State trade and commerce necessarily embraces
                factual discrimination as well as legal operation. A law will discriminate against inter-State trade or
                 commerce if the law on its face subjects that trade or commerce to a disability or disadvantage or if the
                factual operation of the law produces such a result. A majority of the Court (Barwick C.J., Stephen, Mason
                 and Jacobs JJ.) so held in North Eastern Dairy, at pp 588-589, 602, 606-607, 622-623. And the more recent
                 decisions proceed upon thatfooting. The Court looks to the practical operation of the law in order to
                 determine its validity. Once this is recognized, it is difficult, indeed impossible, to deny that a
                 Commonwealth law dealing with inter-State trade could operate in such a way as to work an impermissible
                 discrimination against inter-State trade, in particular the trade across State borders originating in a
                particular State. For reasons already given, we should not venture into this topic in any depth. However, we
                 would add two comments. The first is that the possibility offactual discrimination by a s.51(i) law applying
                 only in respect of inter-State trade or commerce may well be eliminated in the context of a national scheme
                 constituted by complementary Commonwealth and State law applying, by virtue of their combined
                 operation, to all trade or commerce of the relevant kind. The second is that s.92 will obviously operate to
                preclude discriminatory burdens being imposed upon inter-State trade or commerce by Commonwealth
                 laws enacted pursuant to other general heads of legislative power (e.g., trading corporations).

                46. In conformity with the general principle that the legislative powers conferred by s.51 are subject to the
                constitutional guarantee contained in s.92, the Court has held that s.92 secured the citizen's freedom of
                movement across State borders even in wartime. (Gratwick v. Johnson.) Although that case did not deny
                power to meet the exigencies of war by regulating the transport of men and materials (see the discussion in
                Miller v. TCN Channel Nine, at p 603), there is no doubt that the Constitution makes the defence power
                subject to s.92. That consideration is itselfsome indication that the freedom guaranteed by the section
                prevails in a confined area only. If it were not so, the section would create a substantial lacuna in the
                legislative powers available to the national Parliament in times of war or national crisis arising from
                actual or threatened international aggression. It would, for example, be a formidable obstacle to legislation
                authorizing acquisition and organization of essential commodities and materials in times of war or such a
                crisis. The criterion of operation test did nothing to alleviate this problem. Indeed, of the various
                interpretations ofs.92 which have attracted any support over the years only the fiscal charges theory and
                the anti-discrimination interpretation which (for the reasons given) we favour reduce the problem to
                manageable proportions. Similar comments could be made in relation to the competence of the national
                Parliament to legislate in discharge of international obligations (Constitution, s.51(xxix)).

             iv. Please see in particular “the Communists” High Court case on governments operating in excess of power:5
                 That under the defence power a law may, at least in time of war, be made to operate upon the opinion of a
                 designated person, and that that opinion may supply the only link between the defence power and the legal

5 Australian Communist Party v The Commonwealth [1951] HCA 5 https://jade.io/article/64758.
                 effect of the opinion is well established. It is sufficient to refer to Lloyd v. Wallach 2 (cf Liversidge v
                 Anderson 3 Ex parte Walsh 4 ; Little v. The Commoninealth 5 ; and Reid v. Sinderberry 6 ). It may be
                 thought that herein lies an exception to an elementary rule of constitutional law which has been expressed
                 metaphorically by saying that a stream cannot rise higher than its source. It was stated in Shrimpton v. The
                 Commonwealth 7 in these terms: Finality, in the sense of complete freedom from legal control, is a quality
                 which cannot be given under our Constitution to a discretion, if capable ofbeing exercisedfor purposes, or
                 given an operation, which would or might go outside the power from which the law or regulation
                 conferring the discretion derives its force." Cf. Dawson v. The Commonwealth 8 . The "discretion " may, of
                 course, be the discretion of the legislature itself exercised by the very fact of the enactment of a law. Or it
                 may be the discretion of the Governor-General or a Minister, intended to be legally effective by the
                 operation of an enacted law upon it. The validity of a law or of an administrative act done under a law
                 cannot be made to depend on the opinion of the law-maker, or the person who is to do the act, that the law
                 or the consequence of the act is within the constitutional power upon which the law in question itself
                 depends for its validity. A power to make laws with respect to lighthouses does not authorize the making of
                 a law with respect to anything which is, in the opinion of the law-maker, a lighthouse.

                A power to make a proclamation carrying legal consequences with respect to a lighthouse is one thing: a
                power to make a similar proclamation with respect to anything which in the opinion of the Governor­
                General is a lighthouse is another thing. Whether the rule exemplified by Lloyd v. Wallach 9 constitutes a
                real or only an apparent exception to the general rule is a matter which need not be considered here. It is
                enough to say that, on the one hand, it is established beyond all doubt, while, on the other hand, it has
                never yet been invoked except in connection with that H. secondary aspect of the defence power which has
                SO far been regarded as depending upon a basic fact of emergency and ceasing when conditions created by
                the emergency have passed (R. V. Foster: Ex parte Rural Bank ofNew South Wales Wagner V. Gall; Collins
                v. Hunter.
             v. Please see in particular “the First uniform Tax Case” High Court case on governments operating in excess
                of power:6
                Common expressions, such as: "The courts have declared a statute invalid," sometimes lead to
                misunderstanding. A pretended law made in excess ofpower is not and never has been a law at all.
                Anybody in the country is entitled to disregard it. Naturally he willfeel safer ifhe has a decision of a court
                in his favour-but such a decision is not an element which produces invalidity in any law. The law is not
                valid until a court pronounces against it-and there- after invalid. If it is beyond power it is invalid ab initio.
        (e) There are also s 109 inconsistencies with Federal Legislation, such as State and Federal Biosecurity Acts,
            including that the requirement for individual Biosecurity Orders to be made against individuals to be valid, etc.
        (f) Also, State based (and Federal) inconsistencies with inherited Constitutional Law2, such as Magna Carta,
            Habaes Corpus, the Bill of Rights 1688/1689 (Yes, Australia has 'the Bill of Rights', it just isn't popular with
            some people due to some provisions - with the Australia Acts it cannot be removed either), which are indeed
            law throughout Australia.7
        (g) Inconsistenancy with other 'human rights laws', e.g. Human Rights Act 2019 (Qld), Australian Human Rights
            Commission Act 1986 (Cth) which nationalized / locally implemented certain 'international law', such as:
            SCHEDULE 1 Convention concerning Discrimination in respect ofEmployment and Occupation
            SCHEDULE 2 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
            SCHEDULE 3 Declaration of the Rights of the Child
            SCHEDULE 4 Declaration on the Rights ofMentally Retarded Persons
            SCHEDULE 5 Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Persons
        (h) Also invalidity within various jurisdictions. For instance in Queensland and Victoria, Covid Restrictions were
            not made by Parliament, nor the Parliamentary Counsel, therefore legally require to be Gazetted and tabling in
            Parliament (e.g. ss 47 and 49 of the Statutory Instruments Act 1992 (Qld) for Queensland). This was not done,
            and is even without the above issues needing to be considered. Hundreds of millions of dollars of fines and
            damage to people's businesses, suicides from loneliness, etc.
        (i) It was known at the time of the lock downs continuing, that the lock downs had no effect on transmission or
            deaths, e.g. the work of Epidemiologist Professor Isaac Ben-Israel.
     5.      I would put more if I had time and more than a 3 page limit.
     6.      I am happy to be contacted.                          and for this to be published, including my email address.
     7.      Thank you.

6 South Australia v The Commonwealth (1942) 65 CLR 373, 408. https://jade.io/article/64227.
7 On colonisation, so called 'inherited laws', and confirmed many times, e.g. Australian Courts Act 1828 (Imp); Colonial Laws Validity Act 1865
  (Imp); Commonwealth Constitution 1900 (Imp), s 10 “Application of State laws: Until the Parliament otherwise provides, but subject to this
  Constitution, the laws in force in each State, for the time being, relating to elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of the State
  shall, as nearly as practicable, apply to elections ofsenators for the State"-, Imperial Acts Application Act 1984 (Qld); Imperial Acts
  Application Act 1969 (NSW); Imperial Acts Application Act 1980 (SA); Imperial Acts Application Act 1980 (Vic); etc.
