Submission to Federal Enquiry into Covid

By Dr. Pavel Faigl, PhD

Attn. The Chief Executive Officer - COVID-19 Response Inquiry Taskforce



Dear Sir/Madame,

Originally from Czechoslovakia, I have arrived in Australia as a political refugee in 1979. I have
tertiary qualifications in Physics and Chemistry and have worked in my whole life in various industries
and in academia both in Australia and overseas. After the final retirement 6 years ago, I continue to
be still active as consultant and as a President of the local chapter of National Civic Council.

When the Covid news started to trickle into media in the association with an urgent need of mass
vaccinations, I became alert. What struck me immediately was an indiscriminate push towards
vaccinations, whereas the nature of the virus was still unknown. That did not make any sense. On the
other side, the use of the proven chemotherapeutic antivirals (example: Ivermectin) started to be
questioned while at the same time unproven vaccines were promoted as the only way of protection.
Yet, the patent literature covering various vaccines for Corona viruses convinced me that the
composition and make-up of these synthetic vaccines is highly likely going to cause an overdrive of
the natural immunity response. That would obviously result in inflammatory reactions, which would
show up, depending on the internal biochemistry of everyone, in the variety of organs. Unlike in the
cases of therapeuticals which work along and together with natural immunity, much more damage
would ensue.

This indeed started to happen. As the time progresses more of the vaccines "side effects" became
manifest, often with a fatal outcome.

It is a huge scandal. I know myself personally two people who suffered serious post vaxx
complications. One,               of               developed a^^^^^^^^^^^and is on forever
on medication                     The other, a youth of         developed myocarditis and required
hospital stay but recovered. Many cases were shown for the public in "Forest of the Fallen" displays
in the towns all over Australia. Why the need for such outcries when certain medicines have been
proven safe and effective? You were not even allowed to mention the little Ivermectin tablet. You are
cancelled when you ask for it. Doctors were not prescribing it. Doctors were threatened with jail.
Many people, including nurses, firefighters, shop assistants were cancelled when they refused to take
"the jab". Facebook, Twitter and Utube contain many distressing reports on people's experiences
with totally unjustified communist style coercion (see attached comment by pi314 on Experience
with Covid_Utube_25_02_2023). Thus, it is not surprising that the questionable "benefits" (instead
of supporting the natural immunity) of Covid vaccines show as a clear increase in Death Rates (the
case is of UK with a larger population than Australia and hence stronger statistical significance):
https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/datase
ts/deathsbyvaccinationstatusengland

A screen grab of one segment of their extensive tables is attached. This is an extremely disturbing
finding indeed, but, from the foregoing, predictable.

We can then ask: are the regulatory authorities (TGA, state health departments, ministers, and their
scientific advisers) taking money from the manufacturers and marketeers of vaccines? Is the TGA still
taking money, donations, and budget fundings from the Big Farma? Were the major printed papers
and social media instructed or coaxed to report (or not to report) in a certain way about Covid­
related issues? Why was the long awaited^^H report https://phmpt.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/ll/5.3.6-postmarketing-experience.pdf getting so little attention in the
media? It contains many disturbing clinical facts. Why there were no reactions from the Federal
bodies like TGA to the open admissions in the^^Jown report? With the Federal government policy
on increased immigration, the occurrence of "23 reported cases of spontaneous abortions out of 270
pregnancies and more than 2,000 reports of cardiac disorders"
https://www.naturalnews.com/2023-09-18-secret-pfizer-report-mrna-covid-jab-killer.html just
within the first two months of the mRNA vaccine release in mid-December 2020 runs totally against
its own population policy, while causing untold despair, sadness and stress for the mothers and
families affected.

So, what went wrong? What is wrong even to this very day, with no apologies from the governmental
and medical bodies for the damage done?

The line of actions recommended by the HRC https://humanrights.gov.au/about/news/media-
releases/human-rights-commissioner-critical-covid-inquiry-
scope?mkt tok=OTA3LU9EWS0wNTEAAAGQ.BeW93virmmP6inGro6Hv3eE6xltLiqZf6WEBeCj-
mpKoGwcVSXIprXJU5QIUlMzGZTg3biF lg7ovyMXVyUlwmG92L9vHCmadww86P-LIBpkDhYD

is a good start, but its scope needs to be extended. In my submission I call for comprehensive
investigation into:

Specific Pandemic Measures including mask and vaccine Mandates; lockdowns and curfews;
including fear-mongering communication strategies deployed by public and medical officials.

Composition and Scope of the Inquiry including the bias of panel members (some officials have
made statements which put into question their impartiality) which are overseeing this very Inquiry
and the exclusion of unilateral State and Territory Government decisions. These must be covered as
well!

All aspects of the government's response. Response to an increase in Death Rates.

It appears to me nevertheless, that nothing short of a Royal Commission into the COVID would be in
position to cover all the above aspects fully, honestly, and transparently and have the executive
powers to effect changes and seek legally binding redress of wrongs done.

Hence, even after this Federal Enquiry is completed (and it is my hope soon), I
call for a full Royal Commission.



Thank you.

Dr. Pavel Faigl



Mobile:



                  December 15, 2023
pi314

5 hours ago (edited)

Boy does this hit home. 65 years old, never vaccinated. Got Delta September 2021 and it nearly
killed me. 16 days hospital.^^^^^^^ 8 month recovery. I ran into all kinds of different medical
professionals during during the course of treatment and recovery, and the higher the rank and
standing in the medical community, the more condescension and less empathy I received (e.g.
doctors = rude, nurses = angels) because of my vaccination status, in a few cases outright shaming.
Upon hospital discharge I was STERNLY warned that I better get vaccinated because if not and caught
covid again, "It would not go well." Eventually found a new internist/family doctor who actually had
the capacity for INDEPENDENT THOUGHT, and he strongly advised that I should NOT get vaccinated
given my experience and the questionable safety and efficacy of the shots. Got omicron June 2022,
absolutely terrified, and it was a total non-event. As was mentioned on this channel, omicron was
the vaccine big pharma tried to make and failed. I have lost much respect for doctors in general,
because many of them administer medical treatment without practicing the art of medicine, which,
as they apparently have COMPLETELY FORGOTTEN, includes observation and using common sense.

IN: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tOOCIPQ8asg

Date: 25_02_2023
