COVID - 19 SUBMISSION.

INTRODUCTION
Members of the Australian government can:

    1.       Continue to support and promote covid lies; or
    2.       Tell the truth and promote the facts.

Option 1 means daily increasing criminal liability.

Option 2 limits criminal liability.

Those running this inquiry are fully aware of all the facts, or otherwise criminally negligent.

The true covid facts, are in the public domain and incontrovertible.

Those responsible for covid administration, are criminally negligent if they are not aware of all the
relevant facts, and criminally complicit in crimes against humanity, if they deliberately suppress the
facts and promote lies.

Criminal liability, for participation in the covid fraud/treason, is undeniable.

Millions now know THE TRUTH.

There is nowhere to hide.

PROOF OF CRIMINAL LIABILITY
War Ri )m / DailyClout Pfizer Documents Analysis Volunteers' Reports - The Pfizer Reports Be k -
is freely publicly available.

    1.   The Pfizer Reports book contains 46 reports written by the highly-credentialed War
         Room/DailyClout Pfizer Documents Analysis Project volunteers between March and
         December 2022. The reports are based on information in the primary source Pfizer
         documents released under court order by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as
         well as on other key medical studies and literature that relate to Pfizer's experimental gene
         therapy mRNA COVID "vaccine." These important documents have been ignored by the
         mainstream media; however, to date, no one has challenged the accuracy of what they
         report.
    2.      Pfizer had a |
         https://violationtracker.goodjobsfirst.org/parent/pfizer
    3.       Pfizer stated in the US court case of Jackson v. Pfizer, Ventavia and ICON,



EUA MILITARY COUNTERMEASURES NOT VACCINES.

Millions have suffered and died as a result of the deployment of military countermeasure
          B disguised as vaccines.
        1.   The injections are not vaccines: not medical/pharmaceutical products at all; not subject
             to good manufacturing practice (GMP) requirements; or clinical trials for safety and
             efficacy.
             https://bailiwicknews.substack.eom/p/american-domestic-bioterrorism-program




             https://bailiwicknews.substack.com/p/pfizers-motion-to-dismiss-the-brook?s=w


             https://rumble.com/v3xqd6s-fda-flooded-the-market-with-illegal-drugs.html

All claims, that the injections were safe and effective, were always known to be false.

If those responsible had any scientific, medical or moral integrity at all, the injections would have
been stopped immediately, due to repeated, clear safety flags.

CRIMES ASSOCIATED WITH COVID
There is abundant proof that the fake covid pandemic was pre-meditated and pre-planned for profit.

    https://rumble.com/v40vwdz-david-martin-uk-parliament-dec-4-
    2023.html?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email

Crimes associated with participation the WHO & CO's crimes against humanity include:

        Treason; fraud; criminal negligence; theft; lying; misrepresentation; manslaughter;
        attempted murder; murder; blackmail; coercion; assault; dereliction of duty; breach of
        fiduciary duty; etcetera; etcetera.

How do those complicit plead now?

How will they plead in the future, if they continue to uphold covid lies?

CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY INCLUDING INTENTIONAL GENOCIDE


Former Italian Health Minister                     is reportedly under investigation for homicide after
emails between him and the head of the drug authority, reveal that both had been aware of the
dangers of the COVID vaccination from the very start and knowingly and deliberately exposed the
unsuspecting Italian population to this risk, ^^^^^^vhen he knew the shots were killing people,
gave orders to local health authorities to conceal deaths and serious side effects in order to reassure
Italian citizens of their safety and to not jeopardize the vaccination campaign.

All responsible players, risk prosecution for serious crimes, with severe possible punishments.
CONSPIRACY THEORY PROPAGANDA
Clearly those being accused of being conspiracy theorists, persecuted, marginalised, even
criminalised, are the truth speakers, while the liars are the real conspirators, who will be held
accountable.

Clearly the medical/scientific experts, who are being censored and de-platformed, are the real
experts, while the fake experts are the liars.

https://www.globalresearch.ca/video-design-so-called-covid-19-vaccines-intentionally-harm-people-
dr-mike-yeadon/5842754

MISINFORMATION PROPAGANDA
Government, media, medical and other persons, are directly responsible for the covid lies and
misinformation, which have caused and are causing, great suffering to many Australians.

Lies and misinformation have injured and killed many, via the suppression of the use of effective
inexpensive treatments, and the promotion of the use of inappropriate, known to be dangerous and
potentially deadly, but profitable treatments.

https://rumble.com/v40vwd5-pierre-kory-uk-parliament-meeting-december-4-
2023.html?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email

CONCLUSION
Those who continue, to try to cover up the real covid facts, risk indictment.

These deadly dangerous injections must be banned immediately, otherwise those responsible for
the ongoing suffering and death, face escalating degrees of criminal liability.

The members of this inquiry, will be held accountable for their choices, in this matter.
