                                              COVID-19
                                            Submission 394




                  Inquiry into the COVID pandemic
                                    Richard Head and Jennifer Martin




In line with the Inquiry Terms of Reference, we would like to forward our appreciation and thanks for
the opportunity to make comments on the "Australian Government's response to the COVID-19
pandemic and other issues relevant to the health and medical research and innovation sectors, such
as the effect of COVID-19 on research and the Government's response".


We collectively are biomedical scientists, physicians and managers with a national and International
standing as well as extensive experience in research prioritization management and
commercialization. We have been active in clinical design for a treating the host response to the
current COVID-19 pandemic.


Summary:
Overall it is clear that the response to the COVID pandemic was a test of the National resilience,
responsiveness and strategic depth of the Australian health and research enterprise, in a manner not
dissimilar to the bushfire challenges in December 2019-Jan 2020. In that context, we believe
Australia made excellent public health decisions to protect the public and the Nation as a whole. The
results speak for themselves. Likewise, across many research areas such as modelling, epidemiology
and testing the response is outstanding.


To us, one of the few areas of disappointment is the therapeutic research arena. It is this important
domain that would have enabled us to have or have approaches to an armamentarium of safe,
effective, cheap, and already available therapies for host treatment in this pandemic. We believe
this area requires attention. Attention to prevent fragmentation of effort and to implement strategic
principles matched to the needs of a pandemic like those enacted so well in allied response areas.

What is evident in the current course of the pandemic:


    •   The public health and advice-giving response from the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and
        State Chief Health Officers (CHOs) was analogous to the exceptional leadership with Chief
        Fire Commissioners in the bushfire crisis. Likewise, the role of politicians in letting the CMO
        and staff have the space to act in leadership was outstanding as it was also in a similar way
        in the bushfire crisis. Additionally, the CMO/CHOs and staff in engaging physicians and GPs
        and other groups on the front line and getting realistic feedback is an excellent example of
        strategic management at its best.
    •   The epidemiological and modelling teams and those that implemented early and targeted
        testing and tracing have been truly exemplary. Our view is that the immunological /vaccine
        development research community are well globally connected and thoroughly organized.
    •   From a strategic management perspective, the formation of the National COVID-19
        Coordination Commission (NCCC) to anticipate and mitigate the economic and social effects



                                                   1
                                              COVID-19
                                            Submission 394




        of the global coronavirus pandemic was a laudable development. We believe that approach
        has a place in addressing the therapeutic area of disappointment we have highlighted.

    •   Broadly the role of the community in accepting a high stringency in isolation was something
        we should be nationally proud of.

    •   For us one of the few areas of disappointment resides with the therapeutic research arena.
        The area that enables us to have or to have approaches to an armamentarium of safe,
        effective, cheap, and already available therapies for treatment in this pandemic. We believe
        this area requires attention.


What were we expecting in the area of therapeutic research area with COVID-19?


        An understanding that the machinery that supports therapeutic research funding year in
year out in a bottom up grant in aid process while very important, differs from that needed in
response to a crisis. A top down process utilizing a single national panel lead by strategists is needed.
This panel may consist of biomedical discipline and technical experts if they have demonstrated
leadership skills and authoritative behaviors in the national interest, but should also include those
not within specific biomedical disciplines but with outstanding skills and reputations as leaders -
that is, in serving unmet need with critical decision making on a regular basis (Australia had a
brilliant example with the Essington Lewis leadership in the biggest crisis in our history)
        From a strategic management perspective, a similar approach to that established with the
National COVID-19 Coordination Commission (NCCC), that describes how Australia's biomedical
research capacity could deliver the needed therapeutic armamentarium should have been
developed, and in a top down managerial fashion implement the necessary research for
implementation. Why this approach is critical is because it is self-evident that the suite of solutions
needed to reduce the morbidity and mortality from COVID cuts across fixed interests and previously
effective methods of succeeding in grant funding rounds, including silos of 'ology disciplines in
Universities, news cycles and campaigns for untested policies.
        In summary, we believe the best approach for therapeutic solutions draws on the success of
the NCCC and should achieve an identification of the top 5 to 10 drugs this country would focus its
research on in the current and future pandemics.


What would the therapeutic Armamentarium look like in Australia a pandemic?
        In any pandemic the ideal position to be in is one in which an effective vaccine or antiviral
drug is available to the population. Australian biomedical research is contributing importantly to this
effort. Both goals are being globally pursued and both require time to achieve fruition. There are
however therapeutic measures that enable societies to bridge time chasm that involve the principle
of treating the host with existing (repurposed) approved drugs. The concept of treating the host is
entirely complementary to opportunities arising in the area of drug repurposing that our team has
highlighted recently (1,2). In the case of COVID-19 disease this would mean identifying drugs that are
focused, not on the elimination of the virus, but upon the survival of the patient with severe COVID-
19 disease. This includes drugs approved for other indications that have the beneficial phenotype for
treating severe COVID-19 disease. The fundamental advantages of this approach are; firstly, to buy
needed time for the concurrent development of anti-viral or vaccines, secondly to provide health
authorities a treatment insurance as they begin to release the public from social isolation.

                                                    2
                                                 COVID-19
                                               Submission 394




        With the emergence of the virus that causes COVID-19 the sites of viral attack were quickly
ascertained. From that information it is possible to short list known therapeutics that could be
tested not only to buy time for vaccine and anti-viral development but to provide the necessary
therapeutic insurance as social isolation is eased. Because of the evolutionary nature of any virus in
a pandemic a knowledge of what therapeutics were or were not effective also impacts upon treating
these host approaches.


In summary based on these principles, we would expect to have an identification of the top 5 to 10
drugs in an Australian therapeutic Armamentarium to be explored in response to this and future
pandemics.


What strengths would Australia bring to bear on the creation of a treating the host
armamentarium?
        In looking at the many areas of success to date in Australia's response to COVID-19 the one
standout feature is a cultural pragmatism. We would argue that the treating the host concept in
therapeutics described above fits well with an Australian cultural pragmatism. For example, it is
identical in principal to the saving of life and assets strategy employed in the recent Australian
bushfire crisis. In that case treat the host, not immediately the fire. In addition to building on
pragmatism the following to our mind underutilizes skills in the context of COVID-19 could be
employed:


             •   Our internationally recognized skill base in pharmacology, clinical pharmacology
                 and pharmacy that could form a cornerstone of a national pandemic response in
                 treating the host.
             •   Our data handling capacity. One of the key inputs to identifying candidate
                 repurposing drugs is analysis of existing administrative data sets relating to existing
                 non pandemic drug treatments. Australia has invested heavily in health records and
                 we have outstanding ICT and statistical graduates in this country all of which is
                 ideally harnessed in responding to this pandemic by unitizing data-based selection
                 of drugs to treat the host.
             •   Australia has been one of the global leaders in prevention particularly as it relates
                 to nutrition. We know recognize the profound link between immune function and
                 response and the gastrointestinal system. There is no reason why Australia should
                 not lead in drug diet interactions in a pragmatic treating the host response to
                 COVID-19 disease.


What were our observations and impressions on the existing response?
At the risk of dwelling too intensely on the negatives we gained the following key impressions:

             •   The absence of an Australian cohesive vision and strategy for implementation in the
                 therapeutics area.
             •   The absence of a National set of therapeutic drug targets for COVID-19.
             •   The absence of a single national authority coordinating the therapeutic approach
                 and implementation in the response to COVID-19 (We acknowledge that there were


                                                     3
                                                COVID-19
                                              Submission 394




                   calls from funding agencies however for research proposals in the COVID-19 area
                   but as mentioned in our view a top down process is needed in a crisis.)
              •    As seasoned investigators we saw fragmentation. Fragmentation of a national focus,
                   fragmentation of strategy, fragmentation of effort and fragmentation resources.
                   There was significant fragmentation in the duplication of committees - LHDs, state
                   committees, federal committees, specialty groups etc, often with technically skilled
                   successful experts but because of that very point, collectively at risk of lacking the
                   exposure at a national level to crisis strategy and management that is needed in a
                   pandemic.
              •    Lack of involvement of leading therapeutics/clinical pharmacology/toxicology teams
                   (vaccine and antiviral input was however sought), or opportunities for leadership.


Conclusions and recommendations.
          As we indicated at the start of this submission, we are extremely impressed with so much of
the biomedical activity that has gone on in Australia in response to COVID-19 disease. We are all
indebted to that professionalism. On reflection the success has been due to consultative top down
leadership, clarity of purpose and message, effective translation and an absence of fragmentation
and duplication.
          For us one of the few areas of disappointment is the therapeutic research arena which we
believe can be remedied. The area that enables us to have or to have approaches to an
armamentarium of safe, effective, cheap, and already available therapies for treatment in this
pandemic. In the absence of vaccine or antiviral for CoV-SARs-2 and all of us still within its presence
we would suggest:


      •    this area requires attention if for no other reason it stands in contradistinction to the allied
            high level COVID-19 coordinated responses.
      •    An overarching strategy group analogous to the NCCC be established to ensure Australia
            has as soon as possible a path to having a therapeutic armamentarium with this and any
            subsequent pandemics. Tasked with delivering the top 5 to 10 drugs in an such a
            repository to be evaluated in a treating the host response to COVID-19 and future
            pandemics.
      •    Longer term non-pandemic aspects of what we have raised on therapeutic research needs
           we believe further discussion. What learnings can we take to create new commercial
            opportunities for Australia particularly in the area of repurposing existing drugs for new
            indications.

We would like to thank you again for the opportunity to respond and of course would be happy to
elaborate further on what we have raised if you wish us to do so.




                                                      4
                                            COVID-19
                                          Submission 394




Potential conflicts of interest.
Two of us (JM, RH) were on a NHMRC application for trialing two candidate treating the host
candidate drugs in response to COVID-119. As of writing this response we are unaware of the
outcome of that application.
Two of us submitted a comprehensive proposal for Australia to establish a Repurposing Center to
the MRFF funding program, which included within its methodology an opportunity for such a
national therapeutics solution for national benefit. This program was put on hold immediately after
submission due to the C0VID-19pandemic.


These are the private views of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of our host
or affiliated organizations.




                                                 5
                                         COVID-19
                                       Submission 394




REFERENCES

     1.                               https://www.mja.com.au/joumal/2020/drug-repurposing-era-
          covid-market-failure-needing-leadership-and-government-investment Print June 6,
          2020. On line, accessed May 30, 2020
     2.                       ^^^^^^^^^^2020. BUYING TIME: DRUG REPURPOSING to TREAT THE HO
          in COVID-19. Accepted Pharmacology Research and Perspectives, May 2020.




                                             10
