I am a recently completed PhD graduate who worksI am in my^H,
have a chronic health condition,and am only able to work part time.

People with my condition have been largely forgotten when it comes to assessment of our risk
of severe COVID-19, and long COVID. For example, we were left out of priority vaccination
groups; are not eligible for anti-virals; and it is not considered a risk factor enabling more
frequent access to vaccination (for peool^nder 65). This is despite research showing the
elevated risk of covid for people with              due to immune dysregulation and ACE2
receptors (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.qov/34341773/ ,
https://www.nih.qov/news-events/nih-research-matters/immune-cell-meta boll sm-altered-^^M):
and a survey showing the high probability of a negative impact of covid on     patients
(https://www.meaction.net/2021/04/29/covid-19-has-worsened-our-me-report-survey-respondent
s/). This was not considered by ATAGI, the AHPPC and other related committees.

Also, the personal impact of the decisions made by National Cabinet, to not mandate any
protections for vulnerable people (including ventilation, education about wearing respirators,
support to allow sick people to stay home) has been significant. I am unable to safely engage in
many parts of society, including work. This has been very detrimental for my career and my
mental health. My suggestion going forward is to require clean air standards (such as what
Belgium has done), and provide better support for sick people to stay at home.
And to include people most affected by the decisions in the decision-making: vulnerable people
have been left behind by the response. Even people acknowledged to be at high risk (transplant
recipients, older people) have been left without any protection or consideration. In future,
National Cabinet could make decisions that are nuanced: ‘we will resume more activity, but we
recognise the vulnerability of many Australians, so the following protections are recommended
so they can also live safely and happily.’

ATAGI’s advice on using updated vaccines and when to get boosters is usually late, resulting in
people facing large covid waves without updated protection. As updated boosters become
available in the northern hemisphere’s autumn, ATAGI should be watching them and rapidly
provide updated advice for Australia so that new vaccines can be secured and rolled out the
moment the TGA provides approval. It will also give Australians clarity around who can get the
new vaccines and when. Also, ATAGI’s advice should be based on the latest evidence. For
example, the BA1 and 4/5 bivalents have been shown to be significantly outdated versus the
new variants; updated monovalent vaccines are essential to overcome immune imprinting.
ATAGI’s advice doesn’t seem consistent with this. This has reduced my trust of the group, and
therefore the federal government’s decisions (as they do not seem based on evidence).

In my personal experience, COVID-19 vaccinations have been very important but their limited
access (only once a year for under 65s, with few exceptions), and the delays to buying
adequate supply of updated vaccines, means I remain at elevated risk to my peers. The process
was naturally a bit chaotic at the start and it can be difficult sometimes to know who is eligible
and where to get vaccines, but overall I have had a positive experience. I have had to find
information for elderly relatives, though, to ensure they could get updated vaccines and knew
which ones to get. Vaccination could be better facilitated through leveraging GP’s lists of
vulnerable people (which is what the UK did, for example).
Regarding PRE, in the future the federal government needs to normalise its use, including
through modeling how and when to use it. The politicisation of PPE has been very detrimental,
and I have seen many people not want to use PPE for fear of being bullied by others. Providing
free lessons on different masks and respirators, and when to use which ones (e.g. N95 for covid
and handling dusty garden materials like perlite and soil, surgical mask for splashes), could be
facilitated through community centres, libraries, schools etc. PPE is important not just for covid
but smoke (bushfires!), pollen, etc. Widespread education and free provision of PPE would be
beneficial for the general health of our population.
The Federal Health department could improve Public Health messaging by educating people
about how covid and other viruses spread (through the air, in these cases); why they should
care about reducing the spread (being sick is costly and not nice); and the importance of clean
air in reducing these risks (ventilation, wearing high-quality masks, using air purifiers) - and the
wider benefits of clean air, like reducing allergens and pollution.

The Morrison and Albanese government’s approaches to vaccine procurement impacted me
and my family as we have been largely left without updated protection, where our relatives and
friends overseas received these vaccinations months earlier. Communication has been lacking
so we were and are unsure when we will be able to receive the vaccination. The uncertainty
makes planning high-risk activities like dental care, medical procedures, travel, very difficult.

The impact of the removal of isolation income support resulted in decreased safety for me and
my family, as people returned to work sick placing everyone else at risk. It has also increased
our workloads, compensating for the lost productivity of colleagues who are sick.
I found JobKeeper was overall good, but unfair. I work in the tertiary sector and universities
were not provided with support. The result was a lot of jobs lost and we are still feeling the loss
of these staff, and associated morale, today. I and many colleagues have lost trust in the
government’s support for universities. In the future, universities should be considered in support
packages.
Private sector support should also be reviewed in the light of future profits. For example, some
businesses reported record profits in the years following JobKeeper, yet they had laid off staff
and never repaid JobKeeper. JobKeeper could have been better used to support smaller
businesses who did not have large financial assets to rely on, unlike the large businesses.

Issues caused by labour shortages could be addressed by providing better support for sick
workers to stay home so they don’t infect their colleagues (presenteeism is more costly than
sick leave). And by educating people about PPE, and enforcing clean air standards, so that
illnesses aren’t spread so easily in workplaces and schools.

My personal experience of the pandemic inequities faced by Australians due to disability has
been that my vulnerability to covid infection and long covid is not taken seriously and I am not
afforded protections, and I call on the government to respond by enforcing clean air standards
(ventilation, air cleaning) so that I can safely live and work in society.
Australia would be better prepared for current and future pandemics if the government enforced
clean air standards like in Belgium; educated the population about PPE (particularly N95
respirators) and their many uses (such as to protect against bushfire smoke as well as airborne
viruses like covid); and kept stocks of PPE and boosted sovereign capability in PPE and
vaccine manufacture. The government could also maintain a working group of diverse people
with different lived experience, such as disability, linguistic diversity, Indigenous, healthcare
workers, people in remote and rural areas, etc. so that policies can be informed by the people
they most impact (by commission or omission).
