B Alexander

15 December 2023



Subject: Submission to the COVID-19 Inquiry



Introduction:

I am making this submission to ensure that somewhere there is a record of my experience in history.
I witnessed and experienced things I never believed I would in my lifetime. An avid reader and
history enthusiast I would have staunchly denied the Government capable of doing to its citizens,
what the Australian Government did. The Government's bullying, censorship, and complete
disregard for human rights was horrific and something I will never forget.

III. Response to Terms of Reference:

Key health response measures:

My trust in government and Public Health is completely gone and unlike to be restored after
experiencing the Covid-19 health response. I monitored the data using ourworldindata.org and
worldometeres.info and at no time during 2020-2021 was the number of positive cases in a serious
or critical status higher than .7%. That means 99.3% were considered mild. Yet I watched the
Australian media, at the behest of Government, terrorize the Australian public with outrageously
inflated propaganda. The Public Health messaging was a failure in every aspect. It increased worry
and stress unnecessarily, while at the same time never sharing meaningful advice on strengthening
the body's natural immunity. It is clear to me our Government serves corporate interests, specifically
the pharmaceutical industry, not the Australian public.

The Covid vaccine is the greatest crime against humanity in human history. A vaccine manufactured
by repeat criminal offenders and one they would only manufacture if our government shielded them
from any and all liability.

The Australian Government violated its own Immunization Handbook, in several ways.

Criteria for valid consent


For consent to be legally valid, the following elements must be present:12,14

    1.   It must be given by a person with legal capacity, and of sufficient intellectual capacity to
         understand the implications of receiving a vaccine.
    2.        It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation.
    3.        It must cover the specific procedure that is to be performed.
    4.   It can only be given after the potential risks and benefits of the relevant vaccine, the risks of
         not having it, and any alternative options have been explained to the person.

The person must have the opportunity to seek more details or explanations about the vaccine or its
administration.

The information must be provided in a language or by other means that the person can understand.
Where appropriate, involve an interpreter or cultural support person.
Obtain consent before each vaccination, after establishing that there are no medical condition(s)
that contraindicate vaccination. Consent can be verbal or written.


The vaccine mandates were without any shadow of a doubt, the most egregious form of pressure,
coercion, and manipulation. By failing to pass the essential legislation, COVID-19 Vaccination Status
(Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 and the Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting COVID-19
Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023 the federal Government failed to protect the Australian people.

Also, at no point were people able to receive exemptions. I have direct knowledge of people who
were told by their doctor that they should not get the vaccine, but their doctor couldn't put that in
writing because they're "not allowed" to give out exemptions. I know directly of people who
suffered myocarditis and pericarditis after their first dose but were denied an exemption from the
second dose. How can a vaccine that was tested for such a short period of time not come with a long
list of potential contraindications?

I do not know one person directly who has died from Covidl9. I do know several people who have
died suddenly, and young, of heart attacks. I know several people currently living with myocarditis,
pericarditis and^^|who are living a life that is a shadow of what it once was. I know people with
            anc< many women who are still experiencing                   The first wave of
side effects reported to me directly from my circle of friends and colleagues was changes to their
                  Women telling me of^^^^^^^^^^^^|after months ofwomen
experiencing^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H This should have
immediately halted the administration of vaccines to women of childbearing age, but instead these
women were gaslight by the media and public health.

I could write pages and pages of people I know who are dealing with unexplained health issues^^H
                        inability toIt is devastating.

International policies to support Australians at home and abroad.


By closing the borders, the federal government caused untold hardship and distress to thousands of
Australians. As a dual citizen I was denied permission to return to Canada to see my dying
               I was robbed of my last visit with her due to closed borders, and I was robbed of the
opportunity to say goodbye to her when she was in palliative care. This is something I will never
forgive.

Economic Impact


Heading into 2024 we are facing a cost-of-living crisis, one that was predicted in early 2020 when the
Government starting spending billions and billions of dollars shutting down our economy, destroying
supply chain and logistics and increasing Australia's debt to nearly a trillion dollars. Many experts
warned of the inevitable skyrocketing of inflation that always follows reckless money printing, but
the Government persisted. Hundreds of billions of dollars have been absolutely wasted on the Covid-
19 response. And this of course has made some people very rich.

Mechanisms to better target future responses


Prior to 2020, Australia, at both federal and state level, had exhaustive published pandemic
preparedness plans. Nowhere in these plans were interventions such as lockdowns, restrictions,
universal masking and vaccine mandates recommended. In fact, these plans modelled viruses far
more contagious and deadly than Covid-19.

So why were these plans not followed? Who's plans did we follow? Why?.

First and foremost, Australia must exit the World Health Organization (WHO). This organisation is no
longer advisory, it seeks to be the decider and enforcer of policy and procedure. This organization is
far too heavily funded by private interests, such as                          These unelected
officials are demanding too much power over the lives of member nations, and they must be
considered compromised and a threat to our sovereignty.

Lastly, the Australian public deserve a Royal Commission into both the federal and state response to
Covid-19. Anything less is an insult to the abuse we suffered at the hands of State Premiers. The
terms of reference of this inquiry are woefully inadequate and will fail to address the most damaging
and^^^^^H responses to Covid-19.
