                                                                         15 December 2023

                                                                         Karen Garnett




RE: Covid inquiry

Hello,

As an individual who cares highly for my health and what I elect to enter my body, I found the whole
response to the so-called Covid Pandemic nothing but manipulation, coercion and lies.

My own experience of Covid was a simple cold with a mild headache and fever that lasted 24 hours.

We were told the vaccine was safe and effective, with no safety data to back it up. Indeed we now find in




We've learned through whistleblowers, that the death rate following vaccination has been completely
fabricated, deaths for some batches as high as 20%. Life altering injuries as high as 50%.

No wonder our excess deaths have gone through the roof.

We've learned the vaccines contain Graphene Oxide, heavy metals that can cause blood clots and strokes.

We've learned the spike protein is toxic, and that MRNA is a delivery mechanism that travels through the
whole body, brain, heart, lung, organs, and not contained in the deltoid.

We've learned the lipid nano-particles is a gene based therapy, and patented prior to covid, and that the
Australian agency overseeing gene altered products, admitted they didn't research this bio-weapon product
as it was created off-shore.

We've learned it attacks the immune system, and with each booster, the Immune system attacks itself,
causing a plague of immune-compromised health issues amongst our people.

We've learned the hospitals protocol included Remdesivir, a drug that killed more than 50% of trial victims
for the Ebola outbreak.

Media who are completely biased, no longer independent, literally brainwashing people with a narrative
that was disinformation.

Anti-competitiveness - and loss of real science, which must always be free to be debated. Our poor doctors
blackmailed with the licenses they have worked so hard for, if they should speak out of turn.

We were:

. Treated as prisoners and locked in our homes
. Lost our jobs because we didn't think taking an experimental bio-weapon was a good idea
. Kept from our families whether in care homes, or interstate, weddings and important family ceremonies
. Restricted from travelling and doing trade - against our basic human rights.
. Beaten to the ground and shot at with rubber bullets for protesting
. Vaccine injured victims having no recourse for compensation, as the pharma's liability was removed.
. called conspiracy theorists, for actually showing some independent thinking and doing research off-shore
in countries where there was actual freedom of speech. Another human right, we were denied.

Just writing this out, makes me furious, and there is so much more that is down right shocking.

As an Australian natural born woman, I demand justice for All Australians and protection from future
events, and that can only be by way of a Royal Commission into the handling of the Covid pandemic.

Kind regards
