                                                                               AstraZeneca
                                                                               AstraZeneca Pty Ltd
                                                                               66 Talavera Road, Macquarie Park
                                                                               NSW 2113, Australia
                                                                               T: +61 (0)2 9978 3500
                                                                               F: +61 (0)2 9978 3700
                                                                               astrazeneca.com


SUBMISSION TO COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19
RESPONSE INQUIRY
15 December 2023

AstraZeneca welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the Commonwealth Government's
independent inquiry into the COVID-19 Response.

AstraZeneca is a global biopharmaceutical company employing more than 80,000 people globally
and 800 across Australia. We are one of the largest pharmaceutical manufacturers in Australia and
have been manufacturing at our facility in North Ryde, Sydney, for over 50 years.

Recognising the urgent need for the medical community to work together to research a vaccine to
defeat the virus, AstraZeneca joined forces with the University of Oxford in April 2020, to rapidly
develop and supply a COVID-19 vaccine (later known as the Oxford/AstraZeneca Vaccine, COVID-19
Vaccine AstraZeneca, or Vaxzevria™ (ChAdOxl-S)). AstraZeneca supplied over three billion doses of
this vaccine to more than 180 countries, and approximately two-thirds of these doses were
delivered to low- and lower-middle income countries. This vaccine was provided on a global no­
profit basis during the pandemic period.

The Oxford/AstraZeneca Vaccine is estimated to have saved more than 6.3 million lives worldwide in
the first year of its availability1. One in three Australian adults received the Oxford/AstraZeneca
Vaccine, equating to 13.8 million doses, the majority of which were manufactured locally in
partnership with CSL.

AstraZeneca also quickly mobilised research efforts to develop a coronavirus-neutralising
monoclonal antibody combination called Evusheld™ (tixagevimab and cilgavimab), for the
prevention and treatment of COVID-19. Evusheld™ was provisionally approved by the Therapeutic
Goods Administration (TGA) in February 2022 for the prevention of COVID-19 in people not expected
to mount an adequate immune response to vaccination because they are immunocompromised due
to a medical condition or due to immunosuppressive medications. 39,000 doses were delivered
through an Advance Purchase Agreement (APA) with the Department of Health and Aged Care and
distributed via the National Medical Stockpile (NMS), providing additional protection to vulnerable
Australians.

AstraZeneca has identified four key recommendations for consideration by the Panel that would
improve Australia's future pandemic preparedness:

    1.   Establish a National Medical Manufacturing Taskforce to enhance Australia's domestic
         medical manufacturing capability and reduce the impact of future supply chain disruptions.




1 Chuenkitmongkol S et al. Expert review on global real-world vaccine effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1080/14760584.2022.2092472
                                                                               AstraZeneca Pty Ltd
                                                                               PO Box 131 North Ryde NSW 1670
                                                                               ABN 54 009 682 311
                                                                           AstraZeneca
    2.   Provide alternative funding pathways for preventative therapies and improve national
         distribution channels for medicines funded outside of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
         (PBS).
    3.   Improve pandemic communications by allowing pharmaceutical companies to publicly
         respond to public concerns in a factual and balanced manner, when in the national interest.
    4.       Establish ongoing monitoring of COVID-19 mutations and circulating variants of concern.

 RECOMMENDATION 1
Establish a National Medical Manufacturing Taskforce to enhance Australia's domestic medical
manufacturing capability and reduce the impact of future supply chain disruptions.

The COVID-19 pandemic saw major disruptions to global supply chains, resulting in shortages in
pharmaceuticals and essential medical eguipment such as Personal Protective Eguipment (PPE).
Establishing the priorities for domestic medical manufacturing through the establishment of a
National Medical Manufacturing Taskforce would ensure Australia can plan for and secure critical
supplies in the future, as well as enhancing Australia's global bargaining power during future supply
chain disruptions.

While medicine shortages are not new to Australia, the COVID-19 pandemic highlighted many of the
fragilities of Australian supply chains, particularly for medicines. Shortages for vital medicines were
experienced throughout the pandemic, including for medicines used to manage asthma, diabetes,
depression, anxiety and nausea, as well as treatments for stroke, hormone replacement, antibiotics,
cancer treatments, and liquid paracetamol.

There are two main stages of pharmaceutical manufacturing - production of active pharmaceutical
ingredients (APIs), and the production of formulations (medicines, whether in cream, tablet, capsule,
inhaler, or other forms). According to the TGA, Australia imports over 90% of medicines, primarily
from the US and Europe, whilst most APIs are manufactured in China and India.

Shortages were the result of multiple factors including disruptions to supply chains, as well as panic­
buying and stockpiling in Australia and around the world. In some cases, access to APIs was limited,
production at international manufacturing plants was impacted by workforce shortages resulting
from the pandemic, and air and sea freight was disrupted.

One such example of these supply constraints was seen in March 2021 when the European Union
blocked a shipment of the Oxford/AstraZeneca Vaccine bound for Australia. In efforts to secure
domestic supply, the European Union refused to authorise a shipment of 250,000 vaccine doses
from AstraZeneca's Italian manufacturing facility to Australia. The European Union justified this
decision as Australia was not considered "vulnerable" due to the low number of COVID-19 cases in
Australia at the time.

In April 2021, the Australian Government sourced an additional 717,000 vaccine doses from the
United Kingdom, to make up for the shortfall in doses blocked by the European Union. While nearly
4 million doses of the vaccine were ordered offshore, AstraZeneca and the Australian Government
entered into a partnership with CSL to ensure that the vast majority - almost 50 million doses -
would be manufactured locally in Australia. This safeguarded AstraZeneca's vaccine supply from
global supply chain disruptions.

The TGA took action to manage medicine shortages during the pandemic by establishing the
Medicine Shortages Working Party. While the Government has now implemented stockholding
requirements to help address global supply chain issues, this should not be viewed as a long-term
                                                                            AstraZeneca
solution to manage supply disruptions of more than 4-6 months. Australia remains reliant on
offshore manufactured product. Global health crises, trade disputes, political disputes, labour
shortages or civil unrest will all continue to cause shortages of critical medicines in the future.

Recently, we've seen Australian supply chains disrupted once again, this time due to a cyber-attack
on DC World, who is responsible for 40% of Australia's maritime freight. With cyber-attacks
becoming more frequent, this is another important consideration for government when setting
manufacturing policy.

A nationwide assessment conducted by a National Medical Manufacturing Taskforce would allow
the Government to determine a list of medicines deemed "critical" for the day to day functioning of
our health system - medicines people use at home, those most commonly used in primary
healthcare settings, and those used in hospitals. This would differ to the function and purpose of the
NMS, which plans for specific events (such as a pandemic). The Taskforce would help inform
manufacturing policy and determine key areas for future government investment in sovereign
capability.

 RECOMMENDATION 2
Provide alternative funding pathways for preventative therapies and improve national distribution
channels for medicines funded outside of the PBS.

Existing Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) and Pharmaceutical Benefits
Advisory Committee (PBAC) processes are not structured as funding pathways for therapies
authorised for pre-exposure prophylaxis of COVID-19, and the length of the PBS decision-making
process does not support rapid access to critical medicines during a pandemic. NMS distribution of
medicines funded through other channels, such asAPAs, can be challenging without the vast
distribution network of the PBS. Alternative funding pathways outside of emergency settings are
crucial to ensuring vulnerable Australians have eguitable access to protection.

Despite the high effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, some immunocompromised patients are
unable to develop an immune response and remain at risk of life-threatening infection.

Whilst approximately 3% of the Australia population are immunocompromised (approximately
500,000 people), data from the "Communicable Diseases Intelligence COVID-19 Australia:
Epidemiology Reports"2 indicate that they account for up to 25% of hospitalisations or ICU
admissions for COVID-19. Studies in the UK3 and USA4 have also demonstrated similar data with
immunocompromised patients accounting for 3.7% of the UK population, yet being overrepresented
in hospitalisations (20%), ICU admissions (28%) and deaths (24%) due to COVID-19.

As highlighted by ATAGI, "studies also show that the immunocompromised population with COVID-
19 have a 1.5-2.0 times higher risk of death than the general population. In addition, prolonged
COVID-19 infection, which immunocompromised individuals are more susceptible to, is associated




2health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/Content/99424DA2A5F3A488CA2589BA0019141 B/$File/covid_19_aus
tralia_epidemiology_report_78_reporting_period_ending_27_august_2023.pdf
 Evans RA et al. In press-corrected proof. Lancet Reg Health Eur. 2023.
https://d0i.0rg/l 0.1016/j.lanepe.2023.100747.
4 Ketkar A et al. Curr Med Res Opin. 2023;39(8):1103-1118

                                                                                               Page 3 of 6
                                                                              AstraZeneca
with prolonged viral shedding, which increases the risk of viral evolution and of the development of
new viral variants"5.

Evusheld™ was developed to meet significant unmet need and provide an additional layer of
protection for these patients. Clinical trials and real-world evidence supported the effectiveness of
Evusheld™ to protect these high-risk individuals. Evusheld™ is the only monoclonal antibody (or
antibody combination) authorised for pre-exposure prophylaxis in Australia.

Following TGA registration in February 2022, Australia's National COVID-19 Clinical Evidence
Taskforce (CET) and state and territory-based guidelines recommended Evusheld™ for pre-exposure
prophylaxis therapy for immunocompromised patients in March 2022. The National COVID-19 CET
also recommended Evusheld™ for treatment of COVID-19.

AstraZeneca worked closely with the Department of Health to prepare an abridged submission for
Evusheld™ as part of an application for PBS listing. Evusheld™ was rejected at the December 2022
PBAC meeting.

While Australia's PBS listing process is robust, it is a widely held view that it is too restrictive for the
emergency assessment of therapies. The National Health Act requires PBAC to be satisfied that cost­
effectiveness has been established before a medicine can be recommended for listing on the PBS.
This regulation requires a high level of certainty in both the clinical utility and utilisation of the
therapeutic intervention. This process does not therefore allow for the agility in decision making
that is necessary to support short term PBS listings of therapies in situations with a high degree of
uncertainty, such as the constantly evolving COVID-19 environment.

An APA was signed between AstraZeneca and the Government in December 2021 and then varied in
February 2022, and 39,000 doses of Evusheld™ were supplied to be distributed via the NMS. Supply
to states and territories via the NMS was challenging and resulted in inequitable access to Evusheld™
for immunocompromised Australians.

State and territory guidelines for Evusheld use were not consistent nationally, and changed from
time to time causing confusion about who should receive the drug. Therefore, the requirements to
demonstrate eligibility differed across states, with some states requiring copious amounts of
paperwork and serology. Many hospitals did not have the resources to search their records for, and
recall, eligible patients, and there was no additional funding to support this cost, or to support
additional costs such as storage or transport to regional and remote areas. In some instances, states
were also known to be stockpiling Evusheld™ due to uncertainty about future availability and supply
arrangements.

Overall, this distribution approach resulted in slow uptake of Evusheld™, low awareness, and low
levels of familiarisation, resulting in fewer immunocompromised Australians receiving protection.

AstraZeneca maintained engagement with the states and with Patient Advocacy Groups to ensure
awareness of supply arrangements, to understand utilisation rates for forward planning, and to
ensure understanding of Evusheld™ neutralisation against emerging variants of concern.




5 ATAGI. 2023. "Recommendations on the use of a 3rd primary dose of COVID-19 vaccine in individuals who
are severely immunocompromised" Version 4.3 5.

                                                                                                  Page 4 of 6
                                                                           AstraZeneca
The Halton Review of COVID-19 Vaccine and Treatment Purchasing and Procurement 6(the Halton
Review) concluded that over the next two years, Australia must continue to ensure that there is
adequate and speedy access to vaccines and treatments by patients, if and when they are required;
and that maximum possible protection through vaccinations and treatments should be provided
over the short to medium term to protect the vulnerable, limit hospitalisation and death, and allow
the economy and health system to recover.

The Halton Review also found that pre-pandemic structures and processes were not fit for purpose
in an emergency context, and that ongoing, integrated advice and new advisory structures and
mandates will be required for the ongoing management of COVID-19. It found that the potential
benefit of wider use of efficacious treatments should be considered, given the considerable ongoing
disruption to work and education still being experienced.

The flexibility and adaptability shown by the Government in an emergency setting was crucial to
allow APAs to be agreed in a rapidly changing environment. To improve Australia's future pandemic
preparedness, consideration must be given to providing appropriate and flexible funding pathways
for pre-exposure prophylaxis therapies and improving distribution of medicines funded through
alternative pathways outside of the PBS.

 RECOMMENDATION 3
Improve pandemic communications by allowing pharmaceutical companies to publicly respond to
public concerns in a factual and balanced manner, when in the national interest.

The rollout of the COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca was impacted by public misperception relating to
the risks associated with the vaccine. In preventing pharmaceutical companies from promoting
medicines, TGA regulations inadvertently prevented AstraZeneca from proactively responding to
incorrect claims associated with adverse events. Pandemic arrangements should be considered by
the Panel, to prevent such situations arising in the future.

Recognising the urgent need for a vaccine to defeat the virus, in April 2020 AstraZeneca joined
forces with the University of Oxford to rapidly develop and supply a COVID-19 vaccine. In February
2021, COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca was provisionally registered by the TGA for individuals aged 18
years and above. The vaccine was first made available to Australians in March 2021.

On 8 April, ATAGI issued advice that due to a rare but potentially severe side effect linked to the
COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca, it was no longer the preferred vaccine for 16-50-year-olds, while
there were very few COVID-19 cases in the community. ATAGI advised that in an outbreak, either
vaccine was likely to be beneficial, and if the Pfizer vaccine was unavailable, it was preferable for
people under 50 to receive the AstraZeneca vaccine, however they should consult their doctor.

On 17 April, the Department of Health paused advertising on the vaccine rollout. On 4 May, the
Australian Government recalibrated its rollout strategy to utilise doses of the COVID-19 Vaccine
AstraZeneca by bringing forward eligibility for 50+ Australians. On 17 June, ATAGI advised that the
COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca was no longer the preferred vaccine for 50-59-year-olds. The COVID-
19 Vaccine AstraZeneca remained registered by the TGA for individuals aged 18+.

The nuances in ATAGI's advice were quickly lost amongst the media and public commentators, with
many interpreting the advice to say that there was a prohibition on the use of the AstraZeneca


6 https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/review-of-covid-19-vaccine-and-treatment-purchasing-
and-procurement-summary-and-recommendations

                                                                                              Page 5 of 6
                                                                          AstraZeneca
vaccine for persons under 50, and then under 60, rather than a recommendation. The risk/benefit
analysis of receiving the vaccine, and any COVID-19 vaccine, was not well understood by politicians,
the mainstream media, or the general public. Media reporting resulted in public confusion regarding
vaccine eligibility and led to vaccine hesitancy amongst members of the public.

At the time, TGA regulations made it difficult for AstraZeneca to publicly respond to media reports
regarding adverse events and risks associated with the vaccine for the population groups which
ATAGI recommended should receive the vaccine. Throughout this period, AstraZeneca responded to
direct media enquiries.

Confusion was partially the result of media and the public not sufficiently understanding that ATAGI
acts in an advisory capacity. It's not uncommon for there to be differences in clinical opinion
between different clinical groups, such as between ATAGI and PBAC.

The Halton Review concluded that to maximise coverage and reduce confusion, it is important for
government to clarify who the key decision-maker on vaccine eligibility is and which bodies act in an
advisory capacity. This Review also concluded that public messaging needs to be better aligned with
public health goals, and high-level COVID-19 vaccine policy.

Pandemic arrangements should be considered under TGA regulations, that would allow
pharmaceutical companies to publicly respond to such concerns in a factual and balanced manner
when in the national interest, to prevent such situations from arising in the future.

 RECOMMENDATION 4
Establish ongoing monitoring of COVID-19 mutations and circulating variants of concern.

At present, data collection and monitoring in Australia is fragmented and intermittent, making data
unreliable and unapplicable to the Australian population as a whole. Establishing ongoing monitoring
of COVID-19 variants would help inform decisions on the role and funding of therapies to prevent and
treat COVID-19.

The development and ongoing global rollout of COVID-19 vaccines was made possible through post
approval real world data (RWD) collection and studies. These insights reflect daily interactions with
the healthcare system for millions of people, including those often excluded from randomised
controlled trials (RCTs).

It is essential that Australia collects its own data to continue to monitor COVID-19 mutations and
circulating variants of concern, as countries continue to experience different variant waves at
different times. This means information collected overseas data may only be partially applicable to
Australia.

The Halton Review recommended ongoing monitoring of COVID-19 mutations and variants,
including impacts on treatment efficacy. Collecting and reporting on such data would also sustain
public awareness of the risks associated with COVID-19, encouraging greater uptake of vaccine
boosters and other options for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19.

We recommend establishing a linked framework for Australian governments to collect data, with
wastewater surveillance as the backbone of this framework, accompanied by targeted genomic
sequencing of variants of interest. This would enable an evidence-based approach for Australia's
ongoing diagnosis, management and treatment of COVID-19.
