Written Submission and Evidence (COVID-19 Response Inquiry)



Australia would benefit from a stronger, well-coordinated public health surge capacity



The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the importance of a well-prepared and adaptable
public health workforce to manage the complexity of contemporary public health
emergencies. During the pandemic, the capacity to rapidly scale the public health response
was stretched or exceeded at all levels. This reinforces the necessity of an ongoing program
of training and investment in public health workforce development to maintain high levels of
preparedness and response capabilities to current and future threats in Australia and the
region.

Many professional disciplines are required to maintain a strong public health response
capacity. A well-established example is Australia's only field epidemiology training program,
known as the Master of Philosophy in Applied Epidemiology (MAE), at the Australian National
University (ANU), which is an applied 'learning-by-doing' practitioner training program. The
MAE program is accredited by the TEPHINE       (Training Programs in Epidemiology and Public
Health Interventions Network) and is part of a global network of approximately 100 field
programs strengthening public health systems across more than 200 countries and territories.
The MAE collaborates with and complements national, state and territory health department
initiatives to enhance workforce skills, health system performance and the evidence base for
policies, programs, and practice.

Established in 1991, the MAE program is modelled on the highly regarded Epidemic
Intelligence Service (EIS) at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In addition to
responding to Australian public health emergencies, MAE graduates, students, and teaching
staff frequently play critical roles in the coordination and field response to international
events, including severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS, 2002-2003), H1N1 influenza
(2009), Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV, 2012-ongoing), Typhoon
Haiyan in the Philippines (2013), Ebola virus disease in West Africa (2014-2016), Cyclone
Winston in Fiji (2016), and the COVID-19 pandemic (2020-ongoing).

A recent publication highlights that Australian field epidemiology staff, alumni and students
were involved in a wide range of COVID-19 pandemic response activities, indicating that the
MAE program is essential to the health response workforce in Australia and internationally.
Of the 66 survey respondents, 90% were involved in COVID-19 response activities in Australia;
within this group, 61% reported working for state or territory government departments, 10%
for a federal government department, and 3% for a local government department. Other
workplaces included nongovernmental agencies (5%), universities (21%), and Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander health services and organisations (3%), with some respondents
reporting multiple workplaces. Seven respondents (11%) reported working internationally on
the COVID response. When information was sought on 43 COVID-19-related response
activities, 98% reported their involvement in at least 1 listed activity and 55% in more than 5

                                          Page 1 of 3
activities. Eighty-two percent of respondents were involved in surveillance, 80% in reporting
of data, and 71% in incident command.



ACDC could support and coordinate Australian workforce development

Globally, field epidemiology training is mostly embedded in and/or closely affiliated with
national government agencies. Of the 80 currently active programs around the world listed
on the TEPHINET website, 73 (91%) are affiliated with a national/federal government
department with the majority of them being the Ministry of Health of the concerned
countries. Such examples are drawn from both high-income countries (e.g., Canada,
Germany, Japan, Singapore, UK, and USA) and the Asia-Pacific regional partners (e.g.,
Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, South Korea,
and Vietnam).

To ensure a well-prepared Australian workforce for future public health events, training
should be auspiced and funded or co-funded by a centralised governing agency. With the
establishment of the Australian Centres for Disease Control (ACDC) in 2024, it is very timely
to apply the lessons learned during the COVID-19 pandemic through the national coordination
of public health workforce training. The MAE program was originally conceived and funded
by the Commonwealth Department of Health in 1991 as a national resource, however it has
since transitioned to a jurisdictional user-pays model due to shifts in policy, which has resulted
in administrative barriers to rapid mobilisation and redeployment for cross-jurisdiction
events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. A return to nationalised funding and coordination
would yield immediate and long-term benefits, and ensure better preparedness for future
significant public health events.

A key strength of the MAE program is that it operates within the National Centre for
Epidemiology and Population Health (NCEPH). NCEPH is a high performing, interdisciplinary,
research and graduate teaching school of 200 staff across six diverse centres and
departments. These broadly cover First Nations well-being, health economics and policy,
applied epidemiology and linked data analysis, population mental health, and health
workforce, with high-level partnerships with government and organisations in Australia and
internationally. This provides both academic rigour, and a recognised accreditation pathway
for graduates of the program. NCEPH manages the administrative and coursework aspects of
the program which in partnership with ACDC will prove to be an efficient use of expertise.

The MAE is a model for other disciplines

The 'learning-by-doing' model of the MAE program could be an example for other on-the-job
training programs suitable for public health emergency response capacity, building on the
work in other disciplines by groups such as the Public Health Laboratory Network (PHLN), and
the Australasian College for Infection Prevention and Control (ACIPC). By effectively
supporting apprenticeships in a range of core disciplines, the Australian public health system
can be better prepared for future emergencies.




                                           Page 2 of 3
Submitted by:

Professor Tony Stewart MBBS MAppEpid FAFPHM
Director, Master of Philosophy (Applied Epidemiology) Program
Deputy Director, National Centre for Epidemiology & Population Health
62 Mills Road, Acton ACT 2601
The Australian National University

E:

M:|




                                        Page 3 of 3
