Dear fellow Australians

I am thankful for the opportunity to comment on the handling of vaccines during the covid pandemic
a few years ago.

I think overall that the situation, especially vaccine mandates was handled very poorly, and I am very
surprised that more inquires into the matter are not being actively sort.

I fully understand that our leaders were under great pressure, not having a road map of how to
handle the pandemic, but many personal liberties were taken away from the Australian people and
many are still paying the price for this, with no one willing to take responsibility, or look at how we
could do it better next time we have a pandemic.

The Media gave the impression constantly that Covid was so bad that all vaccine mandates were
essential to our country's survival. Our government leaders fully supported this line. What little
research was available pointed to the vaccines having a short-term benefit to the symptoms of covid,
as well as the risk of vaccine injury. It was a massive assumption that the vaccine could reduce the
spreading of covid and this assumption meant that weather you were at risk of being badly affected
by covid or not, you were required to take it if you wanted to keep your job and feed your family.

This was a situation that was developing and research on the effects of the vaccines was literally
carried out on mass scale on us, the Australian people with out our choice. Years down the line it
seems no one wants to seriously look at the results of this research, indicating that it was probably a
huge waste of money, peoples health and a massive breach of liberty that no one wants to take
responsibility for.

The social effect of taking away people's choice in having the vaccine was devastating to the
Australian people causing cracks and divisions in all levels of community and families. We, the
Australian people deserved the right to choose.

In conclusion, please be willing to look at the effects of the vaccine, both good and bad. Looking to
the future, what essential rights do the Australian people have?. Does a pandemic which had the
potential at its worst to kill around 1% of us mean that we should be forced to sacrifice all our
liberties and choices? Should the health of the strong be sacrificed without choice and without
proper research for the health of the weak?

Thank you so much for taking the time to read this submission, I hope that we Australians all have
the courage to look at the effects of the covid vaccine and the mandates fairly, without bias so that
we can be stronger in the future.

Kind regards

Christine Huynh
