Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry




14/12/2023




Thank you for the opportunity to provide a submission to the COVID-19 response inquiry.


I believe that a full Royal Commission is required into all aspect of the ‘COVID pandemic’
and ‘COVID response’.


Given that COVID was dangerous only to a minority of Australians (mainly the elderly and
those with comorbidities) and the overall case fatality risk was low, the COVID response was
disproportionate and caused significant morbidity and mortality to many at virtually zero risk
from COVID.


In Australia, over the past couple of years, there has been an unprecedented excess number of
deaths of approximately 10-20%                                 ). This is likely due to some
aspect of the COVID response and not due to CO VID. Excess number of deaths have also
been recorded in New Zealand, UK, US, and western Europe. Urgent investigation and action
are required into the issue of excess deaths.


The ‘vaccines’ were experimental and essentially untested, were not ‘safe and effective’ (as
the Government narrative repeatedly stated), yet were mandated for many Australians.


Vaccine mandates damaged the ‘doctor patient relationship’, diminished informed consent,
and resulted in loss of income and vilification for many of those who decided not to be
jabbed. This damage is ongoing with many people still unable to work due to vaccination
status.


The Government repeatedly advertised that people should get vaccinated to stop the spread of
COVID to other people despite virtually no evidence that this is the case, and indeed
evidence to the contrary.
Mask mandates were also not evidence based early evidence suggested mask wearing was not
beneficial and indeed may harm people (both physically due to respiratory problems and
psychologically, particularly in children). We now have millions and millions of masks in
rubbish dumps and polluting the environment.


Many people who were injured by the jab were not believed by their health care providers
and have found it difficult to get medical and financial help.


Mass lockdowns were not based on evidence, indeed were contrary to available evidence and
accepted pandemic planning, and caused immeasurable harm to individuals, society and
businesses.


International border closures, not permitting Australians back into the country, and not
supporting those stranded overseas was unconscionable action.


Government silencing of any dissenting voice is unacceptable, for example AHPRA silencing
or dismissing doctors who did not agree with or simply questioned the Government COVID
narrative (after all we are a democracy)


Given the very short time frame in which to make a submission, this is all I have time for.
However, I am happy to be contacted for further advice and input if needed.


As mentioned above, I believe that a full Royal Commission is required into all aspect of the
‘COVID pandemic’ and ‘COVID response’ and urge and commend this course of action.


Thank you for your consideration.
