On 9 April 2021, NSW Chief Health Officer, Dr. Kerry Chant, signed an Authority which not only endorsed
administration of the COVID-19 vaccines, but declared them a poison.1 While this appears to contravene the
Hippocratic Oath of 'I will give no deadly medicine to any one if asked', this classification highlights the
degree of risk posed by a substance, including the controls needing to be exercised around their availability.
Shortly thereafter, Victorian Health Minister, Martin Foley went on record as admitting the Covid-19 vaccines
produced adverse, or retrogenic, reactions, yet maintained that ‘the public health messaging still had to
promote the available vaccines as being safe and effective’.11 It goes some way towards demonstrating how
the combination of money and political will can often exert an extraordinary influence on public-health edicts,
with the risk-benefit ratio often obscured. Here is a politician acting in the official capacity of Health Minister
being complicit in proffering goods and services with proven ability to pose an established risk to health, life
and safety.

In a leaked 6 June 2021 Senate Select Committee recording, four weeks before his appointment as Secretary
of the Department of Health, Dr. Brendan Murphy; as Commonwealth Chief Medical Officer and head of the
Therapeutic Goods Association (“TGA”), instructed Parliament not to inform Australian citizens that they
may suffer adverse effects irrespective of whether they have co-morbidities: ‘No evidence that any underlying
pre-existing medical conditions predispose [individuals]. It appears out of the blue, whether you have an
underlying medical condition or not’.111 He cautioned Senator Jackie Lambie against making public the
Government’s stance on withholding compensation: ‘I would hope you wouldn’t say to the public ... that
would not be good’. He added: ‘It has been a decision of Government not to go down that path’.lv

Although the Government expressed interest in potentially purchasing the vaccine, Pfizer purportedly
refrained from making an offer, in any level of detail, during that initial meeting. In the many high-level
discussions that ensued, the Government and Pfizer worked through, and negotiated, aspects of the
Agreement. Multiple versions whizzed back and forth as terms were hashed out.v The Pfizer-Australia
Agreement finally came into effect on 5 November 2020.

While the specifics of the 5 November 2020vl Contract remain strictly confidential — for a period believed to
be no less than 10 years'711 — it is understood the pharmaceutical giant furnished the same contract, largely
unvaried in its terms, to each nation with which it entered into Agreement.V111 By the time Australia signed on,
Pfizer had already executed deals with 34 countries for approximately one billion doses. This was
substantiated by Pfizer’s Director of Market Access, Ms. Louise Graham: ‘By that point, yes, there were a
range of deals and contracts already in place’.

On 13 May 2021, former General Manager and representative of the Pfizer laboratory in Brazil, Carlos
Murillo, testified before Brazil’s Parliamentary Inquiry Committee (“CPI”) that Pfizer Inc. demanded all
countries ascribe to the same contractual arrangement: ‘[T]he conditions for purchasing the immunizing agent
were ... the same for all countries ’.1X

In the event legal action is launched, the Government ‘shall promptly assume conduct and control of the
defense of ... on behalf of [Pfizer, BioNTech] with counsel acceptable to [Pfizer, BioNTech et al] „..x This
does not preclude Pfizer from retaining its own counsel, participating in the Government’s defense of any suit
brought against it,xl or assuming control of the defense itself.xu At every interval in the development and
rollout of this experimental vaccine, Pfizer reaps billions of dollars in profit while mitigating risk by laying all
costs and liabilities at the feet of the Government. The threat posed to Pfizer, BioNTech and their Affiliates is
so nominal as to be virtually non-existent. If a patient dies, no one has the right to question Pfizer. For
absolute clarity, the company added the following clause: ‘It should not be construed that Pfizer’s decision to
self-insure is in any way related to, nor does it constitute ‘product liability insurance to cover any third
party/patients claims and such general liability insurance’?111

Fortunately we’re protected by our own laws, right? Well ... no. ‘This Agreement is exempt from the
application of all ... Laws and each of the terms and conditions of this Agreement are fully enforceable ...
including the indemnification obligations’.X1V The Pfizer Agreement stipulates that the Government ‘provide
adequate protection to Pfizer and all Indemnitees from liability for claims and all Losses arising out of
or in connection with the Vaccine or its use’.xv This provision is enumerated in Clause 9.5.

Termed a ‘Condition Precedent’, it denotes an event, condition or circumstance which must be satisfied prior
to the Contract being considered operational and binding the parties to their contractual obligations. The
‘Condition Precedent’ in the Pfizer Agreement makes it unambiguously clear that, ‘For clarity, the sufficiency
of such statutory or regulatory requirements or funding appropriation shall be in Pfizer’s sole discretion.
Purchaser acknowledges that Pfizer’s supply of Product hereunder is in reliance (without any duty of
investigation or confirmation by or on behalf of Pfizer or its Affiliates), inter alia, on Purchaser’s
representations and covenants under this Section... ’.XV1

Moreover, should any dispute, arbitration or litigation arise, all laws and avenues of adjudication have
effectively been neutered. Only the laws of the State of New York shall prevail/'" Just in case you were
wondering, the Government and Pfizer expressly deny the existence of any relationship between them which
may give rise to a fiduciary duty. For the sake of clarity and the avoidance of doubt, they are independent
contractors.XV111

Prime Minister Morrison noted that ‘if you are vaccinated you present less of a public risk to yourself and to
others around you, your work colleagues, your community and so if people present less of a health risk, then it
only stands to reason that you would have different arrangements’.X1X What about the arrangements put in
place by Pfizer with respect to the Government? Arrangements such as Clause and 2.1(b)(ii) and 2.8(d) in the
make it necessary for countries to dole out the vaccine as aggressively as possible. The essence of these
respective clauses encourages nations to suppress alternative treatment measures, while simultaneously
acknowledging that COVID-19 poses a recognised and grave threat to the lives, health and safety of the
general public. Notwithstanding this fact, any other drug or vaccine which may be found to successfully treat
the virus must be concealed in favour of Pfizer; irrespective of whether it has been created or authorised prior
to Pfizer’s Comirnaty vaccine.xx

Our Government needs to recognise and accept that the long-term effects and efficacy of the un-serialized
Product remain unknown and may carry adverse consequences.XX1 In its 21 June 2021 Senate Select
Committee chaired by Senator Katy Gallagher, it was put to Ms. Lisa Schofield, First Assistant Secretary of
the Department of Health’s Vaccine Taskforce, that early negotiations of July 2020 included ‘whole-of-
population’ vaccination:

CHAIR: ... [A]t any point was the government offered anything in terms of a population-based vaccination
program from Pfizer that was rejected?

Ms Schofield : I guess I'm not sure exactly what the question is.xxu

Ms. Schofield later elaborated by offering an incomplete explanation: ‘Pfizer have indicated this, I think, in
testimony to this committee before, and certainly subsequent to that, that it was Pfizer that — ’ Dr. Brendan
Murphy shortly thereafter took up the thread when he confirmed that sufficient Pfizer doses do now exist for
population-wide coverage, however he cautioned it was all a matter of timing.™1 Openly professing the
Government’s desire to make a strategic investment by getting into bed with Pfizer,XX1V Dr. Murphy, in his
wisdom, felt an initial 10 million doses should suffice because mRNA had never before been used in
humans.™ Prior to the Pandemic, it had never made it to licensure, either.

So exactly how are these dosages metered out? It goes like this: The Commonwealth allocates the first batch
to the States and Territories, but keeps the second in reserve for reasons of contingency. That second
consignment is delivered on-schedule, three weeks later.xxvl The logic? ‘It achieves a virtual dynamic
equilibrium’.™11
During the convening of this Committee, the Chair took opportunity to level ‘lack of transparency’ allegations
against Dr. Murphy:

CHAIR: [W]e trust you and have accepted your advice all the way through. But why is it when you have
decisions being made around a vaccine portfolio that there isn’t any public information about that; that we
just have to accept it is what you say it is, that you said this and the government followed it? There is no
public information about it; there's not even any list of when you meet. It just says that the group meets on an
as-needs basis, determined by you.XXV111

(References available upon request).
