I strongly Request a Royal Commission for a proper investigation into the
following:

Corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts- we were never privy to
ingredients and their effect until it was too late. This was all forced into us to
such extent that it has made people around me, and my family members so sick.

Mask mandates- these were originally proven net to work, yet still went through.
As a person with^^^^^^^^^^^Hand^^^l children who need to see my
facial expressions and what I say, this was so difficult. As a teacher it was
ridiculous! At some point we were told we colour remove them, but it was too
late. The damage was done. The class out of control. The children scared and
distressed. And my personal health suffering.

Lockdowns- a way so isolate us all. When these went into effect I had just given
birth, and my family were not allowed to come and visit or help out. This led to
additional
Stress, fatigue, Heath issues and depression.

Vaccine mandates- it meant I was unable to return back to work as a teacher.
Loss of income. And my^^^^^had to go through with mandatory vaccinations
against his wishes, even after emailing his employer and asking several drs for an
exemption - which they were unable to grant based on loosing their jobs for
saying/ doing the wrong thing.
We spent thousands on detoxing protocols and trying to do all to help prepare
the body for these discussing toxins which never worked like a proper vaccine
from
The beginning, causing more harm
Then good in so many of the population.

Official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to
block transmission-1 lost countless friends because they believed that as I was
not vaccinated they would die if they hung out with me and I gave them covid.
They believed I would die from Covid (I did not- they did worse than me being
fully jabbed)
This lead to all sorts of stress and health issues.

Vaccine injuries- it’s real! Why did we not/ do we not hear about this in the main
stream media. Evervthimnyas so one sided. I had friends get so ill after taking
just one dose. My ^^^^^vas one of the lucky ones, with only hot cold flushed,
head aches for days and Covid symptoms for three days just like
The actual virus.

Media censorship- every time I even shared something remotely on the other
side to main stream media, I was Censored. Post deleted. Told I’d be blacklisted
and page deactivated. There was nothing on the news other than one sided story
that was all fear based and pointing the finger at all who had another opinion.
There is no equality or freedom of speech anymore.

Silencing of doctors- do many lost their jobs. Had to step down. As they were too
afraid to speak out. And too afraid to jab people without them knowing the real
risks. Too late did drs get a chance to share the real statistics and thoughts
behind what was going one. So many just fell into the oblivion of injecting for $

The appalling treatment of victims- told we would have our homes taken away,
our jobs, our children’s do our lives. So many people were victimised. We treated
like shit because they chose not to take the jab Not to comply. Not to wear a
mask.

I was told I could not teach. I could not work. I was putting those around me at
risk. I would kill others by being unvaccinated. And now I see I am one of the
healthier ones left amongst those people.
