The internationally orchestrated , exactly following worldwide
Government response ignored our constitution 1900. The people are sovereign, not the parliament. The
whole government protocol/nerrative was and still is in parts anti-democratic. Acceptance of
international or foreign authority, may it be WHO, WEF or anyone else is TREASON. Goverment LACK OR
MISINFORMATION in respect to our rights namely the Biosecurity Act 2015 and Privacy Act 1988,, the
dangerous nature of mRNA vaccines, false promises, available treatments with previously known highly
effective anti-viral medications like Ivermectin and Oleandrinine. Government failed to inform the public
in respect to the financial conflict of interest re Covidl9 vaccines and those players in this world's
greatest experiment on humans, personal hygiene and in medicine well proven measures to combat
virus infections in general. It was total mind control over the people with repetitive false messages,
quieting of voices of experts outside of government chosen ones. General threats and fear campaign,
over-stepping authority in many respects. Forcing doctors to act contrary to the Hippocratic oath to do
no harm. Doctors and other health workers were discredited and/or lost their licenses by medical
associations and public media following the corrupt government narrative. Accepting the ant-democratic
GREAT RESET                that uses the government protocol of Covid 19 response as a start to
implement the narrative is treason against the sovereign people of Australia. The unlawful new laws and
Acts, namely the Misinformation Act, are more proof of this corrupt government. This is not my saying
but the conclusion of the Royal Commissions into the corruption of this government: "Intrinsically
corrupted from the bottom to the top". Even the wearing of masks was not for protection, the lack of
efficiency against viral infections is well documented in medical research literature. It's a well known
part of psychological tactic for compliance. The use of radiation weapons against peaceful and Australian
demonstrators, I know people how showed the burn marks, is a crime. All up, the response of
government was, still is - consider the short time frame given for submission- anti democratic, anti our
Constitution, immoral, unlawful and unethical.
