COVID-19 Response Inquiry


“The goal of the inquiry is to identify lessons learned to improve Australia’s preparedness for future
pandemics. ”



The time-frame of one week for the submissions is not adequate. So it is not possible to provide a
detailed response. For this reason, I shall only take up two points.



1.   Safe Treatments

A virus or pandemic is a health-related situation. When we consult our doctors, they have our medical
history. They are aware of our medical conditions, be they acute or chronic, our symptoms, our
sensitivities and reactions. For each condition, as patients, we have discussions with our doctors, and
keeping in mind our individual histories and symptoms, we arrive at the treatment plan that would best
suit us and keep us well and healthy.

Why is it that in the case of Covid, our primary care doctors were not able to follow the same method
of treatment? Why did all medical professionals have to follow the guidelines of the government in
treating all patients in the same way - the sick and the healthy, the young and the elderly, the strong
and the frail?

There were known remedies used for decades to safely treat people such as Ivermectin and
Hydroxychloroquine. They were shown to be effective in treating Covid symptoms in the early stages.
Why were these treatments not permitted and even banned when they should have been the first step
in combating the virus?



2.   Masks

Research now shows that wearing of masks does not prevent the spread of the virus. In fact, it can be
unhealthy. Imposing a mandatory requirement with penalties caused people to use masks in
unhygienic ways so that they could comply with the rule. They used a mask that was contaminated by
being pushed into pockets and bags when not needed, and then, the germ-laden masks were pulled
on in public spaces.

Also, there are those with medical conditions who could not wear masks but wore them because of
fear. It was the draconian manner in which the rules were imposed and the way those who were not
wearing a mask were treated, at first sight, without any effort made to check their reasons for being
mask-free.



In future, it is important to allow medical professionals to treat their patients based on individual case
histories and discussions. To arrive at what is best for the patient's health knowing the medical
condition of that patient. Mandatory one-size-fits-all rules should not be imposed on the general
population.
