                                                                                                    Australasian Society for
                                                                                                    Infectious Diseases
                                                                                                    [ASID] Limited
                                                                                                    ABN 20 108 151 093
                                                                                                    ACN 155 632 698

                                                                                                    145 Macquarie Street
                                                                                                    Sydney 2000
                                                                                                    PO Box Q379
                                                                                                    QVB Sydney 1230
                    AUSTRALASIAN

 ASID               SOCIETY FOR
                    INFECTIOUS
                    DISEASES
                                                                                                    E info@asid.net.au
                                                                                                    W asid.net.au




The Australasian Society for Infectious Diseases (ASID) is the peak professional body for infectious
diseases professionals in Australia and New Zealand. Membership encompasses Infectious Diseases
Physicians, Clinical Microbiologists, Scientists, Infection Control Practitioners, Public Health Physicians,
Sexual Health Physicians, Veterinarians, and other practitioners eminent in the field of infectious diseases.

Our members were involved at all levels of the COVID-19 response, including:
    •      care of individual patients and their families
    •      prevention of transmission in hospitals, aged care and other facilities
    • provision of the latest expert health advice to health care facilities, other organisations and
       governments including recommendations around novel testing, treatments and vaccinations
    • provision of laboratory testing and reporting, with an unprecedented upscaling of laboratory
       capacity
    •      COVID-19 research and modelling, and
    •      leading or provision of significant contributions to the public health response.

As a technical group, our feedback for this review is largely in relation to governance, response measures
and support for the vulnerable patient groups we care for.

Overall comments
ASID recognises that the data and information available to policy makers continuously evolved throughout
the COVID-19 pandemic, highlighting the importance for this and other reviews to view decisions made in
the context of the data and information that was available at the time. It is also important to view the
outcomes in terms of the potential counterfactual - what would have happened if the decisions taken had
not been implemented? This is particularly relevant for decisions made early in the pandemic. The relatively
low population mortality in Australia during this time stand in contrast to most other countries with similar
characteristics. The "public health paradox" is that a well-functioning public health system is largely invisible
as its output is measured in cases that do not occur.

As we enter the post-pandemic era, larger and sustained investments in primary and preventative health
will be vital in not only protecting against future pandemics, but also strengthening our health system more
generally. ASID acknowledges workforce challenges experienced during the pandemic particularly for
those with roles in public health, infectious diseases, primary care, and emergency first response. Although
these workers are no longer under the extreme duress of a protracted pandemic response, the workforce
challenges extend beyond the end of the emergency declaration.

Governance
ASID supports a key role for the new Australian Centre for Disease Control (ACDC) in inter-government
and inter-agency co-ordination. The roles of ACDC should include co-ordinated and collated surveillance,
leadership in policy development and public facing communications to support the community, public health
professionals and the clinical workforce. ASID proposes that the provision of technical advice via the ACDC
should be free from political overlay.

Whether through the ACDC and/or via other mechanisms such as memoranda of understanding, it will
remain important for responses to be co-ordinated between governments. The importance of co-ordinated

                                                        1
                                                                                               Australasian Society for
                                                                                               Infectious Diseases
                                                                                               [ASID] Limited
                                                                                               ABN 20 108 151 093
                                                                                               ACN 155 632 698

                                                                                               145 Macquarie Street
                                                                                               Sydney 2000
                                                                                               PO Box Q379
                                                                                               QVB Sydney 1230
                   AUSTRALASIAN

 ASID              SOCIETY for                                                                 T +61 0433 027 373
                   INFECTIOUS                                                                  E info@asid.net.au
                   DISEASES                                                                    W asid.net.au


public policy cannot be overstated - both between federal departments (e.g., JobKeeper payments
mitigating the impacts of COVID-19 control) and between different levels of government (e.g., quarantine
as a Commonwealth responsibility but operationalised by jurisdictional governments).

Key health response measures
Pandemic Preparedness
Although a pandemic of this impact had not been seen since 1918-19, we note new and re-emerging
infections are becoming increasingly common. Contemporary examples of national relevance include the
ongoing risk of zoonotic influenza, recent emergence of mpox and widespread local transmission of
Japanese encephalitis virus.

A One Health approach to emerging infections must be adopted, with legislative instruments that support
information sharing and collaborative response between agencies. Infectious diseases threats occur in the
context of changing human behaviour and interactions, the human-animal interface and our place within
the natural environment on which our health and life depend. ASID supports an evidence-based approach
to preparedness and mitigation measures for infectious diseases that is considered in the broader view of
converging health threats related to climate change, biodiversity collapse, stressed ecosystems,
antimicrobial resistance and an ageing and increasingly comorbid population.

Policy implementation
Many of the challenges experienced during the pandemic were in implementing public health policy. ASID
recommends pandemic preparedness include consideration and testing operational capacity including
establishment of surge workforce capacity. Data systems must be fit for purpose and scalable.

ASID recognises a strong need to build and maintain trust and transparent communication between the
Australian community, public health decision makers, operational units and clinicians. This approach will
have benefits far beyond pandemics and other public health emergencies. Investment in a skilled workforce
in behavioural science, science communication and health economics integrated with technical experts will
be key in achieving this aspiration.

Evidence-based practice and research
ASID highlights a key need in synthesising evidence for clinicians as it emerges. The National COVID-19
Evidence Taskforce, supported by 32 member organisations including ASID, was a world leading example
of rapidly and quickly assessing evidence for treatments that were effective, and as importantly treatments
that were not effective.

ASID identifies a need for timely research support to generate evidence in collaboration with international
groups. Conventional grant application processes through Medical Research Future fund (MRFF) and
National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) were too slow and piecemeal, and often poorly
co-ordinated with international groups. The UK public health research approach in anticipating and
identifying key questions was a good example of an ideal research model that Australia could adopt, with
the establishment of key studies to inform treatments in hospitalised patients (RECOVERY), patients with
COVID-19 in the community (PANORAMIC), vaccines in healthy (COV-COM/BOOST) and
immunocompromised patients (OCTAVE).



                                                    2
                                                                                               Australasian Society for
                                                                                               Infectious Diseases
                                                                                               [ASID] Limited
                                                                                               ABN 20 108 151 093
                                                                                               ACN 155 632 698

                                                                                               145 Macquarie Street
                                                                                               Sydney 2000
                                                                                               PO Box Q379
                                                                                               QVB Sydney 1230
                   AUSTRALASIAN

 ASID              SOCIETY FOR
                   INFECTIOUS
                   DISEASES
                                                                                               E info@asid.net.au
                                                                                               W asid.net.au


The delayed entry of COVID-19 into Australia, and the relatively low incidence meant that our health system
was not overwhelmed, allowing time to learn how to optimally treat patients as evidence emerged.

International policies
The pandemic highlighted the importance of Australia's continuing partnership and support for our regional
international neighbours. ASID propose that the ACDC should be an important mechanism via which our
regional role in pandemic preparedness and response is actioned. The aim should be to share knowledge,
access to clinical and public health technical advice, diagnostics, and foster research partnerships. There
should be a shared approach to the development of local novel vaccines and therapeutics with in-built
mechanisms that allow low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) in our region have equitable access.

Population-based response mechanisms
ASID recommends health equity, and a human rights-based approach should be a core component for all
public health policy with tailoring to meet the needs of the vulnerable a fundamental consideration from
policy inception. Specific examples are as follows:

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
The successful approach in empowering Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities to advise on
measures to protect themselves through dedicated advisory groups was a crucial protective factor for this
group in the early phase of the pandemic. ASID recommends the Commonwealth government continue to
pursue a sustained and genuine partnership with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples such that
this group are at the centre of decision making on all issues affecting them including pandemic
preparedness and response.

Children
ASID highlights the profound and potentially long-term detrimental impacts of school and playground
closures on childhood education, emotional and physical development, and mental health. We recognise
the disproportionate effect on children from disadvantaged backgrounds. Early childhood and education
centres and schools should be classified as essential services, with staff vaccinated as a priority group
and remote learning only considered as a last resort. Australia must collaborate with international
agencies to advocate that children and young people are not forgotten in pandemic planning, with early
inclusion of these groups in high quality vaccine and therapeutics trials. Research on the benefits and
harms and specific needs of children must be considered in deployment of non-pharmaceutical
interventions. We recommend adequate representation of children and their advocates in policy decision
making to ensure the best interests of children are observed, including advocating for the establishment
of the role of Chief Paediatrician. We note the Human Rights Commission's call for a national human
rights act similar to those in Victoria, ACT and Queensland which may be one potential mechanism to
enshrine advocacy for children in law.



Date submitted: 15 December 2023




                                                     3
