Dr Melissa McCann

15th December 2023



Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I am general practitioner currently practicing in North Queensland and have over 15 years experience as a medical
practitioner. Prior to completing my medical training I qualified as and worked as a pharmacist. I have developed a
special interest in COVID-19 vaccine adverse events prompted by reports of adverse events from patients and I have
over the past almost 2 years been involved in advocacy, literature review and a clinical workload including persons
with severe events following vaccination. I have also been involved in initiating a class action in the Federal Court
seeking compensation for damages and losses consequent to those adverse events1

By way of submission to this inquiry; the Committee tasked to review the Commonwealth Government's response to
the COVID-19 pandemic and make recommendations to improve response measures in the event offuture pandemics;
I outline below a number of observations and recommendations based on my experiences as a health care
professional during and following the COIVD-19 pandemic.

In response to the specific areas of review-

    1.   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
         governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination
         Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting
         responses to COVID-19.


         The COVID-19 pandemic was characterised by neglect for well-established pandemic response plans and
         established pathways for vaccination approval, purchase and distribution and the justification for these
         deviations from established legislative pathways ought to be examined by this committee. For example, the
         detailed Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza, AHMPPI, August 20192' appears to
         have been entirely ignored. Notably, this extensive plan contains no mention of 'lockdowns', border closures
         or mandatory vaccination policies; whereas such policies have unpinned the COVID-19 pandemic response.


         Specifically, the COVID-19 vaccination program was administered outside of the National Immunisation
         Program. Vaccine listing for the National Immunisation Program (NIP) requires a recommendation by the
         Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) that a vaccine is clinically and cost effective for the NIP3.
         The National Immunisation Strategy 2019-20244 outlines the National Immunisation Program governance,
         and the supply and monitoring of NIP vaccines, and notably contains no mention of Covid 19 vaccines; these
         being administered outside of this program5.
         In 2005, the National Heath Act 1953 was amended to provide for the evaluation of cost-effectiveness of
         vaccines by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC), in order to provide a more consistent
         and transparent process for recommending vaccines for Australian Government funding6.
         Under these arrangements, the National Health Act 1953 requires that, before a vaccine is provided for free
         through the NIP or subsidised under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, the PBAC must undertake a
         thorough and objective assessment of its clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness (value for money), in
         comparison with other available treatments.
         The PBAC then provides advice to the Minister for Health. The Act does not allow for ministerial or
         departmental discretion to list a vaccine on the NIP in the absence of this recommendation. As part of the
         legislative changes in 2005, existing vaccines on the NIP were listed on the National Health (Immunisation
         Program - Designated Vaccines) Determination.
         PBAC recommendations are given in response to vaccine sponsor submissions and with these legislative
         changes, ATAGI was given a strengthened role in providing technical advice to the PBAC on new vaccines, and
         specific vaccines expertise was added to the PBAC. I would emphasise the COVID-19 vaccines have not been
         evaluated by the PBAC and to this day continue to be administered outside of the NIP.
     In addition, the National Immunisation Committee (NIC) has not met since 20197and the absence of this
     Committee during one of the largest national immunisation programs requires explanation by the
     Department of Health. The established governance framework includes for the NIC to establish time frames
     for reviewing and responding to AEFI (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) reports in consultation with
     the state and other jurisdictions and to outline the escalation protocols for an emerging signal and establish
     benchmarks for alerts.
     The provision of the COVID-19 vaccination program, Operation COVID SHEILD8, with complete failure to
     utilize existing pathways for program evaluation, purchasing and administration requires the review of this
     committee.


     Further, the governance structure utilising National Cabinet, as opposed to established governance
     frameworks such requires detailed scrutiny by this committee.
     Intentionally or otherwise, the National Cabinet effected a deviation from the democratic process of
     accountability to the public and such democratic principles of disclosure and transparency, and the process
     by which exemptions from the Commonwealth Freedom of Information Act 1982 were determined requires
     transparent review9. Presuming the intention of the National Cabinet was not to allow governmental
     decision making absent the democratic right for public scrutiny, the outcome of precisely that is highly
     alarming, particularly when decisions made under the shroud of National Cabinet resulted in substantial
     harm and suffering to the public. Such consequential decisions as lockdowns, border closures, vaccination
     purchase agreements and vaccination mandates must be subjected to vigorous review within the scope of
     this inquiry to more effectively anticipate, adapt and respond to pandemics in areas of Commonwealth
     Government responsibility; and ultimately to ensure that the mistakes of this pandemic will never be
     repeated.



2.   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical
     supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health messaging)


     Perhaps simplest to contemplate if these key response measures could have been managed any worse, and
     work backwards from there; it is almost difficult to know where to begin.
     Lockdown and quarantine facilities have been characterised by human rights violations and even resulted in
     deaths of 'inmates'10,11 - the utter antithesis of facilities utilised for the purposes of improving public safety.
     Public health messaging was focused on the goal of every citizen being vaccinated, rather than a goal to
     ensure the public health and safety during the pandemic12. This resulted in perverse advertising and public
     messaging at times, including advertising campaigns targeted at young children, and offering rewards for
     vaccination13,14,15. This public messaging at times crossed clearly into contravention of advertising standards
     for therapeutic goods, even taking into consideration the considerable leniency provided for advertising
     COVID-19 vaccines by the Therapeutic Goods Administration 2022 Permission. For example, this Permission
     disallowed 'statements to the effect that COVID-19 vaccines cannot cause harm or have no side effects and
     any statement regarding COVID-19 vaccines that is false or misleading'; and was required to be balanced and
     factual and non-promotional, for example 'presenting comprehensive information that doesn't emphasise the
     benefits over, for example, the risks and limitations'. Few among us could have traversed the pandemic
     without being subjected to promotional statements that entirely emphasized benefits over risks and
     limitations, promoted false information in the form of advertising unapproved indications such as prevention
     of transmission and suggested the COVID-19 vaccines could not cause harm.


     Adequate governance over the public health messaging and related advertising campaigns appears to have
     been entirely absent and requires the careful review of this inquiry.


     Finally, the COVID-19 vaccinations have been perhaps the most egregious health response measure in
     recorded history. The success of a vaccination campaign is not measured by the percentage of population
     who were convinced to be vaccinated, despite this being reported by various official sources as evidence of a
     successful program16. A successful vaccination campaign ought to result in the majority of vaccinated persons
not becoming infected with the disease the vaccines were designed to protect against. A successful
campaign would result in reduced number of cases and reduced transmission of disease throughout a
population following the vaccination campaign. It ought to result in small numbers of adverse events after
vaccination and such events comparable with traditional vaccines. It ought to result in an overall reduction in
severe disease, deaths caused by the disease and reduction in overall excess mortality across a population.


By every measure the COVID-19 vaccination campaign has been a complete failure despite the multibillion­
dollar investment17,18.


The alarming and extraordinary number of adverse event reports to the TGA DAEN database and number of
claims to the COVID-19 compensation scheme are measures of the harm caused by the vaccines. While most
likely this represents substantial under reporting of the adverse events, these reports are still extremely
alarming.


Each report or claim represents an individual who took the COVID-19 vaccines on the basis that the benefits
would vastly exceed any rare and inconsequential risk (and that risk 'far less than the risk of COVID-19
disease') when such claims were not based on scientific evidence; and information contradictory to such
claims was actively suppressed by the same persons making the egregious false advertising and promotional
claims. Or alternatively, took the vaccine as a consequence of a vaccination mandate and therefore without
free and informed consent.


I believe this Committee ought to make a recommendation of public apology.


An apology to the Australian public for the harms consequent to the pandemic mismanagement including
impacts of lockdowns and harms from the use of novel genetic vaccines which the majority of the population
was mandated to receive, contrary to all principles of medical ethics, might go some way to begin
acknowledgment for the harms caused.



1.            https://www.covidvaxclassaction.com.au
2.    https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2022/05/australian-health-management-plan-
      for-pandemic-influenza-ahmppi.pdf
3.            https://www.health.gov.au/sites/default/files/nip-vaccine-listing.pdf
4.    https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/national-immunisation-strategv-for-australia-2019-to-
      2024
5.            https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2023C01051/Download
6.            https://pbac.pbs.gov.au/information/about-the-guidelines.html
7.            https://www.health.gov.au/committees-and-groups/national-immunisation-committee?language=und
8.    https://www.health.gov.au/resources/publications/op-covid-shield-national-covid-vaccine-campaign-
      plan
9.            https://federation.gov.au/national-cabinet/terms-of-reference
10.           https://www.theleader.com.au/storv/8179430/hotel-quarantine-criminal-civil-cases-to-run-together/
11. https://www.abc.net.au/news/2023-ll-24/investigation-into-legality-of-covid-mandatory-
      quarantine/103146634
12.           https://www.health.gov.au/our-work/covid-19-vaccines/campaign
13. https://www.smh.com.au/business/consumer-affairs/green-light-for-businesses-to-offer-vaccine-
      rewards-20210607-p57vuy.html
14. https://www.canberratimes.com.au/storv/7612191/canberras-voung-superheroes-called-to-join-the-
      fight-against-covid-19/
15.           https://www.swslhd.health.nsw.gov.au/mediacentre/mediareleases/2022/220110.pdf
16.           https://wwwl.racgp.org.au/ajgp/2022/september/strategies-effective-in-optimising-covidl9-vaccine
17.           https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/health/causes-death/provisional-mortalitv-statistics/latest-release
18.           https://ourworldindata.org/covid-cases
