                  Submission to the Australian COVID-19 Response Inquiry
                                        January 2024


My name is                 I was bom and have lived my life                Victoria, Australia.

Summary

I would like to comment on the value of gathering accurate comprehensive data about various
aspects of the COVID-19 pandemic response, including approaches to slowing down the spread of
COVID-19 and reducing deaths from COVID-19. To me, the data should include the:
   •        rates of vaccinated and non-vaccinated people affected by CO VID-19,
   •        how often vaccinated and non-vaccinated individuals got COVID that they were aware of,
   • value of other approaches such as hand washing, physical distancing and staying at home
       when you feel unwell,
   • social, economic and health/ psychological impacts of lock downs, and ongoing fears of
        some to resume engaging in community,
   •        impact of CO VID-19 on people with compromised health,
   • negative impacts of the provisionally approved vaccines (Comimaty Pfizer etc) in the short
       to longer terms, the rates of people affected by vaccine injuries/ adverse events, and the
       types of adverse events,
   •        deaths (and ages) each year from all causes 2020-2024,
   •        value of the vaccines versus the impact of adverse events for individuals,
   •        thorough investigation of other potential or claimed treatments,
   •        rationale and justification for widespread use of provisionally approved vaccines.

Worldwide data

As of 7 January 2024, Worldometer (https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/coronavims-
death-toll/) suggests that:
   • the number of COVID-19 deaths rose from March 2020 to March 2022, but the death rate
       has been relatively stable since then. Daily deaths peaked in January, April and August 2021
       and Febmary 2022
   • 6,925,329 people have died from COVID-19 since 2020 (0.087% of the world’s 8 billion
       population, that is less than 1% of the world’s population died from COVID).

Australia

COVID-19 vaccines became available in Australia on 22 Febmary 2021. Worldometer suggests:
  • COVID-19 cases were stable at some 3,386,000 until January 2022, with a sharp increase to
     9,790,831 by August 2022. Daily cases peaked in January, April, May and July 2022. There
     have been 11,757,494 known cases of COVID-19 infection as of 7 January 2024.
  • Deaths from COVID-19 similarly were stable up to January 2022 when the number of
     deaths was 2,440. By July 2023, the number of deaths from COVID-19 had increased to
     22,428, with peaks in January, July and September 2022, and January 2023. There have been
     23,871 known deaths from COVID as of 7 January 2024 (0.09% of Australia’s population,
     that is less than 1% of Australia’s population died from COVID).

COVID-19 death rates: Australia vs worldwide
I would expect that with the roll-out of the vaccine program and boosters, there would have been a
reduction in the number of CO VID-19 cases and deaths in Australia, especially given that Australia
reached 70-90% vaccination rates of the eligible populati on. But the data do not clearly demonstrate
such reductions. Furthermore, the percentages of COVID-19 deaths were similar in Australia at
0.09% to world wide at 0.087% although vaccination rates, protocols etc were very different from
country to country.

2022 was an extraordinary year. I attended     funerals and was aware of another    I that I could
not attend. Of the^^ft attended, all the deceased were COVID-19 vaccinated. |       "were |
             ■ me person was dead                             one was                 after being in
remission and the third was an                                               , one person died of
                 ■, and the fifth who had extremely                                 .died with
COVID-19. So a number of deaths, but only one because of COVID-19.

Efficacy of provisionally approved COVID-19 vaccines

Did the vaccines work, or was it a mix of approaches?
   • Various methods were used to stop the spread of the coronavirus: hand-washing, mask­
       wearing, restricting movement, working from home, lock downs, online education and
       health support, provisionally approved vaccines etc. I cannot find a research based analysis
       of these various factors, including the value of the various approaches, or a mix of them.
   • Israel for example became one of the first countries to succeed in the majority of the eligible
       population being vaccinated followed by a booster shot. However the COVID-19 cases
       jumped: (https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2021/08/20/1029628471/highlv-
       vaccinated-israel-is-seeing-a-dramatic-surge-in-new-covid-cases-heres-why )

Provisionally approved vaccine injuries/ adverse events
   • Negative impacts of provisionally approved COVID-19 vaccines on individuals seem to
       have been considered controversial rather than incontrovertible. A person who should know
       what she is talking about is Dr^^^H^^^^Lvho has spoken of the adverse effects of the
       vaccine on both her and her partner. Dr         indicated that threats from medical regulators
       affected the public discussion of the adverse effects of the provisionally approved COVID-
        19 vaccines and vaccine injuries: https://www.news.com.au/technology/science/human-
       body/dr-kerryn-phelps-reveals-devastating-covid-vaccine-injury-says-doctors-have-been-
       censored/news-story/0clfa02818c99a5ff65f5bfB52a382cf
   •       Others have also publicly shared their experiences:
       https://'www.ncws.com.au/lifcstvlc/hcalth/hcalth-problcms/outright-lving-australian-
       scientist-hits-out-at-tga-after-lifechanging-covid-vaccine-injury/news-
       Story/c57a554e4f7b6750e8ae6ff2db6c9514

Conclusion - dealing with a pandemic in the future

In my opinion, Australia’s response to COVID-19 was not balanced or properly evidence based.

   •        Many people were required to be vaccinated, for example to go to work or school.
        0   The data are not clear that the provisionally approved vaccines were effective in
            reducing COVID deaths or getting COVID, with no research on vaccinated and non­
            vaccinated people. For example, some non-vaccinated people have not to their
            knowledge had COVID. Some vaccinated people to their knowledge have had COVID
            more than once.
        0
             For some individuals the provisionally approved vaccines have had immediate
             disastrous health outcomes, and there are no data on longer term impacts.
        0    The Government needs to be confident that the benefits of widespread use of
             provisionally approved vaccines are greater than the costs. This requires evidence based
             independently verifiable research to compare with data from Pfizer*, and other COVID-
             19 vaccine developers. If Australia can’t do that type of research, our best scientists and
             medical researchers need to scrutinise research undertaken by Pfizer and others and the
             claimed results, and report to the Government. Thus the Government can make an
             informed evidence based decision on using provisionally approved vaccines.

   •   The lock downs have had serious consequences for people’s physical and mental health,
       businesses especially smaller ones, workplaces, the education and health sectors, other
       public institutions and infrastructure such as public transport, and people being able to stay
       socially connected.
        0    Government approaches to supporting Australians’ health and well-being in a pandemic
             or otherwise need to be holistic, multi-factorial and evidence based, need to consider
             people’s individual needs and preferences, and must respect individual choice.
        0    Australia needs to consider alternatives to lock downs and provisionally approved
             vaccines. Washing hands with soap and water and staying at home if unwell are standard
             responses to not spreading viruses, including during flu seasons.
        0    Are there existing treatments or options for newly circulating viruses? Does natural/
             built immunity limit the impact of viruses?

Australia needs to gather data honestly about what works and what doesn’t, and the short and long
term health, economic, social, education etc costs and trade-offs we are prepared to accept in future
“pandemics”.


Thank you.


9 January 2024.




*Pfizer is an American multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporation producing a
range of medicines and vaccines. The company’s sales of Pfizer BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, its
largest product by sales, made the company $37 billion in 2022. At least nine billionaires were
created in 2021 from the profits of vaccine distribution including the CEOs of BioNTech and
Moderna; another eight billionaires with extensive portfolios in COVID-19 vaccine
pharmacological corporations grew their fortunes by $32.2 billion:
https://www.oxfam.org/en/press-releases/covid-vaccines-create-9-new-billionaires-combined-
wealth-greater-cost-vaccinating
