                      Covid Shot Ultimatum

Scott Morrison said they, as in the federal government, were not
forcing anyone to get the shot.

In 2021 teachers were losing their jobs because of the ultimatums and
come 2022 when the omicron strain had arrived and mid 2022 when
teachers were allowed back I lost my job in May 2022 from TOMAGO
ALUMINIUM COMPANY (TAC).

TAC was enabled by the Morrison government as a private company to
sack staff who chose not to have an untried, untested, not safe or
effective shot. TAC was enabled by allowing the state premiers to
enforce the ultimatums because under the constitution the federal
government couldn't enforce them.

The national cabinet that was set up should have the minutes released
to the public under FOI laws to show these premiers up for who they
really are, drunk on their own power. Meanwhile Morrison did a
                washing his hands of any wrong doing.

I had worked for TAC for 19 years and expecting to retire in the next six
years, instead I'm unemployed as a 59 year old.

Who is going to give me compensation????

Just as an aside my                                       didn't get the
shot. She lived to nearly 91 and there were 3 outbreaks of covid in the
nursing home where she was and she didn't catch it once. The lady that
was in the same room as her caught it and two people across from her
caught it.
Just                               bowed its the jabbed that were
catching and spreading it and the people who are dying from covid are
jabbed not the unjabbed.

Is the government going to look into the excess death rate since 2021?

Young people are dying at a disproportionate rate since 2021.

So for a submission into the inquiry I would like to know how I can be
sacked for refusing an experimental gene based therapy when I didn't
work with children or in health care?

For another submission I would like to know why we have excess
deaths since the covid "vaccines" rolled out? Or is there nothing to see
here!

W. Allan
