    GOOD WW
                                                                        ANZSOM
    SAFE WOKKIPIUeig                                                    The Australian and New Zealand
                                                                        Society of Occupational Medicine Inc

    HEALTHY     EKS


The Australian and New Zealand Society of Occupational
Medicine: Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Introduction
The Australian and New Zealand Society of Occupational Medicine (ANZSOM) is the peak body
for medical practitioners and other health professionals who practice in occupational medicine,
environmental medicine and workplace health more generally. Our members include specialist
occupational and environmental physicians, general practitioners, occupational health nurses and
allied health professionals, who work in various industries and settings to help manage workplace
risks and protect and manage workers’ health.

Our members consider medical issues within the wider context of their psychosocial, industrial, and
motivational frameworks, and have a key role in communicating with employers, business and
government. They focus on the health effects of the relationship between workers and their work
lives, at both an individual and an organisational level. This includes considering the needs of
culturally and linguistically diverse workers.

This submission addresses the areas of governance, key health response measures and
support for industry and business. It draws on our experience during the pandemic, particularly
as part of the coordinated Victorian response, which saw a sizeable team of occupational
physicians mobilised to advise on and implement initiatives across the state to protect essential
and emergency services and high-risk industries.

The submission highlights the key areas where the contribution of occupational medicine
professionals delivered value through their specialised expertise and collaborative innovative
approach. In doing so it provides some insight into strategies that may be considered in future
pandemic planning.

Detailed case studies of the examples mentioned in this submission are available on request.


Workers and workplaces - a vital focus for pandemic planning
Management of workplaces and workers has been a vital aspect of the COVID-19 response, aimed
at:
   •   Identifying and protecting high-risk workers and industries, such as meat processing,
       agriculture and food production.
   •   Protecting vulnerable populations, such as those living and working in aged and
       disability care, education and quarantine detention.
   •   Ensuring continuity of essential services, such as health, food production and transport
       logistics more generally, including shipping and aviation.
   •   Securing the state and federal economies more generally by ensuring continuity of
       industries such as transport, mining, manufacturing and hospitality.

                                                 1
With these aims in mind, some of the key considerations for risk management have included:
     •          Work organisation: including managing shifts and workflows to minimise transmission.
     •          Work environments: including managing ventilation and disinfection.
     •   Worker protection: including vaccination, personal protective equipment (PPE) and
         education.


Getting it right - ensuring early and ongoing access to evidence and
expertise
Managing the risks in workplaces is a complex task requiring diverse technical inputs and the
ability to interpret and act on the rapidly evolving situation that is characteristic of a pandemic.
Access to the expertise of various professional groups including occupational physicians,
nurses and hygienists, public health and infectious diseases physicians and nurses, ventilation
experts and health and safety professionals is therefore essential.

These inputs are required at various levels to inform policy and guide practical implementation.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, two high-level examples stood out:

1.       The Infection Control Expert Group (ICEG)
     This group was the major source of advice regarding COVID control for the Australian
     Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC). The composition of ICEG was initially
     confined to infectious disease physicians and infection control nurses. An experienced
     occupational and environmental physician joined the group when it became apparent that a
     wider skill base was needed, especially for to advise regarding control in workplaces
     outside the healthcare system.

2.       Victorian Taskforce for Building and Construction Industry
     A novel model of governance was established in Victoria to prevent and control COVID-19
     infections in the building and construction industry. A taskforce with senior representatives
     from the Victorian Department of Health, WorkSafe Victoria, the building industry and
     relevant unions in the sector was established. A senior occupational and environmental
     physician with experience in this industry was appointed to act as liaison between the
     Taskforce and the Chief Health Officer. It was successful in keeping the industry operating
     with reduced infection rates.

Building on high level policy and advice, occupational physicians, doctors in industry and
occupational health nurses applied their knowledge and skills within individual workplaces to
help reduce risk of infection, support vaccination strategies and provide advice about return to
work. This was instrumental in maintaining operations in numerous industries, from food supply
chains and manufacturing to mining. Several case examples are available on request to
illustrate the role of occupational health professionals and effective strategies for risk reduction
and mitigation.

Of course, many workplaces do not have access to the necessary expertise to manage the
workplace risks associated with a pandemic. In Victoria, this was addressed through the
establishment and mobilisation of a group of occupational physicians and registrars, who
worked with public health professionals to advise on and implement initiatives across the state


                                                 2
to protect essential and emergency services and high-risk industries. Key industries included
aviation, shipping, the meat industry, transport, agriculture, food production and logistic supply
chains. Some work settings required a nuanced approach, including labour hire, seasonal and
international workers and major hazard facilities. The group also supported residential and
disability/aged care accommodation and provided advice on workplace management to a
range of government bodies including the State and Federal Departments of Agriculture, as
well as employer and union groups.
The group comprised up to 20 occupational physicians who were able to respond quickly as
needs were identified, conducting workplace and facility risk assessments, engaging with
managers and staff, providing expert advice and advising about practical risk reduction
strategies.
Ventilation was found to be a problem in many sites including quarantine residences, industry,
business, entertainment entities, health and aged care and disability services and residential
apartment blocks. As part of the Victorian Government ventilation initiative, the occupational
physicians assisted in the development of education and guidance materials for better
ventilation and air purification at work, in homes and health care, schools, travel, entertainment
venues and public events. The ventilation guidance may be of value in future aerosol-based
outbreaks.
Education was an important activity more broadly for this group, as they collaborated with
public health and infectious diseases physicians to educate industries, workplaces and
workers, ensuring accurate and evidence-based content, such as for webinars and written
material, was consistently provided across the state.

This Victorian model provides a practical template for future responses at a state, territory and
national level.

Recommendations for pandemic planning
Future outbreaks may have different infectious agents and transmission features and will
require accurate early evidence-based data on modes of spread. We recommend that
occupational physicians and nurses be recruited and integrated in the public health response
as early as possible to improve overall scope and quality of outbreak management through:

•      Early identification of high-risk worksites and industries.

•   Provision of high-level advice to Government and Chief Health Officers, business, and
    industry.

•   Collaborating with the public health decision makers to manage industries and keep food
    and other essential industries operating.

•      Collaborating with a range health professionals and scientists.

•      Using and adapting technical resources developed for the current pandemic.

•   Using the lessons and strategies from this experience to inform and direct work in future
    outbreaks.




                                                 3
