My name is chris:mahon. I am sharing my personal experience of the nationwide lockdown
and restrictions imposed from 2020 in the hope that those responsible are held to account
and that these detrimental, life threatening mandates are not repeated with such a lack of
foresight of the social damage and harm that was - has been - seen globally.

In 2021, my                                                                            - was the
scene of two avoidable suicides. Within the space of 6 months, 2 young lives were lost. The
first had lost his job and was unable to work and his mental health spiralled to the point that
he felt he could no longer live. The second suicide, I was immediately called by the mother
                               “come and deal with it!” Whilst the family gathered in the lobby, I
was in the apartment assisting the paramedics, police and supporting^^^^^^^^^^^
whilst the deceased was laid out on the lounge floor where she had been ‘worked on’ before
being pronounced dead. I then had to prepare the bed for the paramedics to transfer and lay
out the deceased ready for the family to view.

These were unnecessary, tragic and avoidable deaths. There was no outside support for
these people and the ripple effect, post-event, was widely felt. I, personally, could not leave
my apartment for 3 weeks due to the trauma I felt. Trauma that stayed with me for months
after the event. If I appear bitter in my submission, I am not. I learned a lot during those
years of draconian tyranny. I learned that those in power are out of touch with the very
people who pay their hefty salaries and have no regard for the sanctity of life. May all those
who suffered rest in peace.

The injections (because it was NEVER a vaccination! By international medical laws
vaccinations MUST do two things; STOP TRANSMISSION and PROVIDE IMMUNITY! The
mRNA did/does neither!), authoritarian lockdowns and restrictions, lack of community
support and forced business shut-downs (apart from big corporate chains, supermarkets and
alcohol retailers, oh, and Amazon) was completely unnecessary as were the unlawful
mandating of wearing face muzzles (as you know, mandates, statutes and legislation are
NOT law). Muzzles which have been exposed as “ineffective and do not provide protection..”

When the government implements the WHOs and WEFs next preplanned pandemic, one
would hope they consider the tens of thousands who lost their lives as a result of the
dictatorial heavy handedness forced upon the people and actually act “in the best interests”
of the people. But, of course, we know that won’t happen!

Thank you. Stay safe and well and have a very merry Christmas!
