Submission re Commonwealth Governments response to the COVID-19 pandemic
I am a mother and grandmother with a Bachelor of Science degree. I wish to comment on the following aspects of
the Commonwealth Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic.



1.   Banning use of Ivermectin as a treatment for COVID-19
The Commonwealth Government, via the TGA, inflicted harm on Australians by banning the prescription of
Ivermectin as a treatment for COVID-19. Ivermectin has been shown to be an effective treatment. TGA
statements on this were false.

COVID-19 could have been tackled without vaccines, at far less cost to the Commonwealth, and with far less
physical, mental, emotional and financial damage to the Australian people. Yet the Commonwealth Government
did not take this cheaper, more sensible route. Instead, the Commonwealth Government lied to the Australian
people, and it is responsible for the irreparable physical damage resulting from those lies.

The Commonwealth Government's actions also undermined Australians' trust in their doctors, who were forced to
become political puppets.

Recommendation: Base decisions on medical facts, not political expediency.

Recommendation: Allow and trust doctors to make use of their expertise to select the best medical treatment for
their patients.



2.     Contracting for the supply of experimental COVID-19 vaccines, importing and distributing them
     • The vaccines had not been properly tested, so they should never have been released to the public. They are
        NOT safe, despite what we were told. There is ample evidence (scientific and anecdotal) of the harm
       caused by the vaccines, including the huge number of adverse reactions reported to the TGA.

     • Neither are the vaccines effective. They do not prevent a vaccinated person for catching COVID-19 or from
       infecting others. In other words, they don't function as an effective vaccine (e.g. polio, smallpox) does.

Once again, the Commonwealth Government lied to us.

Recommendation: Do not accept or allow medicines that have not been properly tested.

Recommendation: Do not accept, allow, advertise, or compel people to take ineffective vaccines.

Recommendation: Do not lie - you will be found out eventually, and the penalty may be huge.



3.     Mandating vaccination for travel, employment or social activity
Some many people did not want to be vaccinated, but they had to be to put food on their tables and keep a roof
over their heads. That was oh so cruel, pitting vaccinated against the unvaccinated, preventing people from
working, excluding children from school sports, stopping people from visiting a dying spouse in hospital, or
attending his/her funeral, keeping Australian citizens out of Australia, excluding people from social gatherings.
The list goes on. Many Australians who were compelled to be vaccinated are still paying the physical price for this.

Recommendation: No mandatory vaccinations with experimental vaccines, as it contravenes the Australian
Human Rights Commission Act 1986 Schedule 2, Article 7 which says in part 'no one shall be subjected without his
free consent to medical or scientific experimentation.'
4.   Conducting vaccination campaigns during the pandemic

Epidemiologists know that this promotes the formation of variants, which we have been seeing since shortly after
the vaccinations began. Pandemics usually run for around two years. Due to vaccination campaigns, this one has
been running nearly four years.

Recommendation: Make use of epidemiological learnings, and DON'T vaccinate during a pandemic.



5.   Promoting vaccinations for children and young adults

The possible side effects of vaccines were clearly far worse for children and young adults than contracting COVID-
19. Yet the Commonwealth Government promoted giving the still-experimental vaccines to children. In particular,
we know that the Pfizer vaccine can very quickly result in pericarditis, particularly in young males. Yet vaccines
continued to be promoted. How cruel can a government be? How negligent of the Commonwealth!

Recommendation: Do not allow political 'imperatives' to outweigh facts.

Recommendation: Do not try to deceive or bully the Australian people.



6.   Having a half-baked inquiry

You need a proper inquiry. Terms of Reference need to include the actions of State and Territory Governments.
The people of Victoria suffered greatly under Daniel Andrews, and he needs to be held accountable for the
damage he caused to individuals and businesses.

Recommendation: Have a Royal Commission, whose Terms of Reference include the actions of State and Territory
Governments.



Thank you.
