Submission to Covid 19 Response Inquiry



I don't believe there has been enough time for people to write a submission , or enough publicity
about this inquiry to allow people to participate.



I implore you to look into all aspects of how the pandemic was handled, including mask mandates,
vaccine mandates, lockdowns, curfews, border closures, national cabinet, etc and give everybody a
chance to have a say.



Lessons definitely need to be learned and the only way that will ever happen is if as many people as
possible are allowed, & encouraged, to tell their stories.



Destroying peoples mental health by locking them down, damaging peoples mental health by
enduring isolation, loss of purpose and boredom; ruining friendships and relationships because of
differing viewpoints on pandemic measures are all issues that need to be explored so they can be
factored into a future policy.



I desperately want to be able to tell those in positions of power & decision making how adversely
their policies & decisions affected me. I know I am not alone and I know my suffering was minor
compared to many; which is why it is so important to hear the suffering endured by so many and to
hear their solutions.



Speak to people like me and hear what effects the following had on me/us -

                I were denied attending his^^^Hfuneral

we were denied seeing my^^^who was unwell

I was threatened with losing my job unless I complied with the vaccine mandates

we saw^^^^and^^^^H become unwell & sometimes die soon after vaccination.

I was treated as a leper when receiving medical treatment because I had a positive RAT but was
asymptomatic (medical treatment wasn't related to C19)

Being embarrassed by having to be escorted from the hospital by 2 security guards and a nurse
because I might touch and infect a surface on the way out even though I was asymptomatic

I

Just thinking about all this & writing this evokes such strong negative emotions, sadness, anger,
distrust.
I have so many questions that I would like answered and I'm sure I'm not the only one. Questions
such as:



Why did a "line in the sand" ie state borders dictate how the pandemic was handled. We are 1
country, 1 people, all facing the SAME problem. How then was each state allowed to operate
independently and make their own rules especially when they often contradicted each other. This is
still happening today as each state or territory has a different approach to caring for the elderly and
vulnerable.



Why did the Federal Government degrade the Prime Ministers role and stature by elevating Premiers
and Chief Ministers by creating National Cabinet?



Why was the Constitution disregarded when

deciding to create national cabinet?

Implementing vaccine mandates?

Closing state borders?



Why has there been no apologies to those who were punished for exercising their right to choose
not to be vaccinated; especially when there is evidence to support their choice? (Ie no advantage in
undertaking vaccination).



Why are Medical professionals, health care workers & emergency services workers (Police, SES, VRA,
Firefighters etc) still unable to work yet there are massive staff shortages in these fields.



Why was the Immunisation Register rules of informed consent disregarded?



Why was APHRA allowed to use their powers to influence the doctor/patient relationship?



Why was Government convenience allowed to overrule medicine and science? Many have since
spoken out about the silencing of medical opinion because it didn't agree with the political narrative



How can science (ie medical trials for new drugs/treatments) be rushed in a pandemic yet not at any
other time?
Why wasn't it clearly communicated to the public that the Covid 19 vaccines were on the black
triangle scheme so people could make an informed decision regarding vaccination?



Most people say that they were not informed about the risks and benefits of the vaccines and a great
many didn't even sign a consent form; although the Prime Minister advised that every person
vaccinated must give written consent.




Australia had the opportunity to prevent Covid 19 from entering our country as we are an island
nation. Why on earth didn't we use this to our advantage and close our borders rather than subject
our countrymen to draconian, soul destroying and financially ruining measures unnecessarily?

Isn't prevention better than cure?




It is really hard to understand, or have faith in, the politicians or medical professionals when each
state and territory had completely different rules for the pandemic and these rules often
contradicted each other.



I hope and pray that this inquiry highlights the complete overreaction of the Government and the
Health System to a perceived threat (virus); where decisions appear to have been made based on
fear, opinions & politics rather than research and science.



Please ask people for their stories; please listen to their stories; please consider their stories -
everybody matters
