Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry 2023

I believe the whole pandemic was poorly managed with unbelievable level of deception and
incompetence. Government actions have harmed a great many people - possibly permanently.

In my first year at school, my teacher told the class that if she discovered anyone had lied to her,
she would never know whether to believe that person in future. I took on that advice and it has
not failed me. If one lies to me, thereafter I don't believe another word without checking first.

All levels of government have failed repeatedly on my teacher's advice. We have been lied to
constantly. This needs to be addressed to provide confidence in our government.

The Vaccine
We are/were told the vaccine is safe and effective. It will enable herd immunity, will prevent
infection, replication, and spread of SARS-CoV-2, and will also prevent COVID-19 disease and
death. The vaccine stays at the site in the muscle where injected. It does not go into the blood
stream.

Below I look at the truth of the above claims from the TGA's own vaccine approval records. These
were written before the vaccination campaign started.

TGA Nonclinical Evaluation Report BNT162b2 [mRNA] COVID-19 vaccine Document 6
January 2021.             Why was this document was withheld from the public?

Government Claim: The Vaccine Stays at the Injection Site

Truth: The vaccine travels through the entire blood system - it does not stay at the injection site
The TGA Non Clinical Report tells us the lipid nanoparticles containing the spike protein went into
the blood and were widespread throughout the body in 4 hours. With a major uptake to the liver
but included heart, brain, ovaries, testes, bone marrow, pancreas, pituitary gland, thymus and skin.
Throughout the entire body -not just the injection site (TGA doc P44 and P40).

Government Claim: The Vaccine is Safe
                   The Lack of Safety Studies
1. There is no data on how long the spike protein persists (TGA P45)

2. Lack of studies investigating potential for auto-immune diseases (TGA P6)

3. Lack of repeat dose toxicity studies in a second species, and genotoxicity studies with novel
excipients. (TGA P6)

4. There is no distribution and degradation data of the S antigen-encoding mRNA (TGA P6)

5. Vaccine increases pro-inflammatory cytokines (TGA P8)

How could the TGA claim the vaccine was safe with insufficient data?
Government Claim: Vaccine Effective

1. Antibodies in monkeys declined quickly over 5 weeks after second doseof BNT162b2 (V9) raising
concerns over longterm immunity (TGA PS)

2. Long term immunity unknown (TGA P6). The truth is - repeated reinfections occur regularly.

3. Vaccine prevention of viral transmission - no data.


Government Claim: Natural Immunity Ineffective
                              Natural Immunity is Very Effective
Prior covid infection created natural immunity produced S protein-specific CD4+T in circulation in
100% of people studied, 70% had S protein cells in circulation (TGA P9)

Government Claim:
We have been provided with all the Information necessary for informed consent

The TGA document clearly shows that the truth was intentionally withheld from us by the TGA and
those enforcing vaccination. The TGA report was published in Jan 2021. The document was only
revealed after much effort under FOI legislation in 2023. Vital parts are still redacted - one must
ask 'What is the TGA still hiding?'

Other Pandemic Concerns:
Pharmaceutical Company Indemnity
I wouldn't buy a vacuum cleaner without a warranty - let alone one with known defects.

Why did the Commonwealth buy vaccines without knowing the safety of the product - then
indemnify the manufacturer? Could the indemnity be why the Government denies vaccine injuries
(head in the sand) blaming the virus for the emerging health issues without checking the
vaccination status and comparing results with an unvaccinated cohort?

Government Claim: Masks are Effective
I wrote to federal and state premier/prime minister and health ministers requesting the science
they referred to as making the case for mandatory mask wearing. To date, almost 4 years later, I
am yet to receive a single response from any recipient.

There was and is no evidence that mask wearing is at all effective with influenza or covid viruses:

The Cochrane Institute reviewed 67 mask studies in 2020 and 78 mask studies in 2023, finding no
value in wearing masks including N95 - simply the tiny virus passes through the large gauze.
https://www.cochranelibrary.com/cdsr/doi/10.1002/14651858.CD006207.pub6/full

Government Claim: Lockdowns are Effective
Lockdowns are effective at making people more vulnerable to infection!
There is no evidence that locking down healthy people stops the spread of disease (example
China), however it created fear, caused major mental health issues, social issues, financial issues
and likely the crazy behaviours we are seeing in the last few years - especially in teenagers.
Lockdowns prevented immune enhancing activities including employment, social interaction,
exercise, fresh air, vitamin D production etc.
Covid went through the country despite all measures including masks, vaccination and lockdowns.
According to the media it continues unabated today. Contrast with Sweden which had no severe
restrictions and no lockdowns! So much for our medical leadership and advice given! Lockdowns
and draconian rules and penalties were an extremely cruel way to treat Australians (e.g. Sweden).

Propaganda on Overdrive-
'Scare the life out of them so they will get the ineffective, experimental vaccine'
The radio and TV blasted us with fearful news stories ignoring the fact that the average age of
death from covid was over 80 years and in the health compromised, end stage of life. Experts with
lifetime experience in vaccine development and immune support were silenced, de-platformed
and gaslit if they didn't agree. Silencing and gaslighting those with differing views to claim 'the
science is settled' undermines the very foundation of science.

Young People
In past civilisations every effort was made to protect the young, keeping them healthy and
ensuring the heathy future of their society.
However, not us, we gave our children, unlikely to suffer more than a sniffle from covid, an
experimental vaccine that penetrates every organ with unknown long-term consequences.
Why? To protect the elderly who have lived out the best of their lives. How irrational!

Our nation's children are on a lifetime experiment with an experimental mRNA vaccine that can
penetrate every cell in their body with unknown long-term consequences. Bizarre!

Why Vaccinate Healthy Young People and Children? Could it have been to fill the pockets of
pharmaceutical companies and their investors, at the expense of our kids futures?

Covid was Coercive Control at its Worst:
We were told death looms for the unvaccinated. The unvaccinated had to be excluded from norma
life, they could not work, play, shop or eat out - stay home! Media aroused community anger with
commentators stating unvaccinated should lose their children, should be jailed, sent to internment
camps, forcefully vaccinated, treated as lepers, denied medical treatment. Told natural immunity is
ineffective.
Australians were forced to vaccinate or potentially lose: job/home/car/family, medical
treatment, societal and social interaction, visitation rights to relatives or friends in hospital,
funerals - without any evidence of the vaccines long-term safety, efficacy or prevention of viral
transmission. People lost businesses and careers. There is no evidence the unvaccinated
are/were any more of a threat than the vaccinated regarding transmission.
Studies show natural immunity is the best protection!

In Concluding:
The Government has miserably failed my Year 1 teacher's requirement for future trust. The
dishonesty is astounding. They repeatedly lied to and deceived me, and all Australians. I now
question anything coming from Governments who, it seems, have no scruples regarding truth and
honesty to promote their agendas. The publicly funded TGA and government officials colluded to
conceal vital and alarming vaccine safety information from all Australians.

Request: A Royal Commission into this deception must be established, into the Covid response;
into the actions of the federal and state governments, so an honest, more humane and caring
response occurs in the next pandemic.
