Covid Respose


Covid measures went too far and were harmful for individuals and the Australian population
as a whole. This is clear from many in my community whose sentiment is that mandates,
'lock downs', 'school from home' and the idea of 'non-essential workers' and 'universal
masking' were unprecedented, over-reaching and Government failings. Many prefer to
agree quietly, speak socially instead of professionally or are aware but stay silent; people are
becoming increasingly educated about what has happened an^whaU^ontinuing to happen.
Experts and professionals are becoming whistle blowers eg                     and Dr^^^|
^^^^Hand the public is seeing the rise of government backed surveillance, censorship and
propaganda1  2
             3, this really became evident during the pandemic response. There is growing
awareness that if we don't address Australia's failings and worse, accept to the follow the
World Health Organization's new Pandemic proposals that Australia's future pandemic
situation will worsen and result in even more damage in the future. Trust in media and
government is eroded, as witnessed in the recent 2023 referendum, where a majority of the
public went against government, media and corporate advice. Harm and fallout has been
evidenced through physical, mental, educational, social and economic health downturns in
almost any population based metric. One example being the increase in All Cause Mortality,
as documented by the Australian Bureau of Statistics reports since 20214, which can not be
explained away after accounting for Covid deaths and even people with covid as a co-
morbitiy at the time of death. Youth suicide, drug and alcohol use as well as increases in
people falling into poverty and un-managable economic debt were all foreseeable under the
phenomenon of Deaths of Despair5. A growing percentage of Australians are aware of how
government measures failed to meet government responsibilities while exceeding their role
in redirecting decisions and power to themselves in a monumental and unprecedented way.
This was to the detriment of Australia's population in favor of pharmaceutic and corporate
interests.

The Federal Government failed to pass proposed Anti-discrimination Bills


1 Philipaltman.substack.com
212/07/2022 with jornaIsit                                                        Adelaide said it was "almost as if
the measures were deliberatly instigated to diminsih the health of the background population" - due to
lockdowns there was a lack of exercise and sunlight, social contact and connection diminished which resulted in
changing bio and neuro chemistry increasing mental health disease, speech delays and neurodevelopmental
conditions.
ARPHRA and censorship meant vaccine injuries ignored etc. "a signifigant group of doctors has either shut down
or have gone quiet. Many doctors are playing along as they are too afraid and others are so indoctrinated by the
system that they believe it, the cognative dissonance is too great for them to face. Most Doctors are told not to
report adverse events to the DAEN reorting system of the TGA.
3 For a great overview of this using the Candian broadcaster as and exaple of media connected with the Trusted
News litiative see
4 ABS abs.gov.au/statistics/health/causes-death/provisional-mortality-statistics/latest-reease Reports a current
2023 10.9% excess mortality compared to baseline average, 5.7% less then 2022. 2022 existed for the mjority not
only abover the baseline rate but outside the baseline range. If the pandemic originally killed the sick, elderly and
weak the years 2022 and 2023 should be lower then average or around baseline. The excess therefore points to
harms from government measures such as lockdowns, mandates, masks, economic and mental health stressors
vacciens and deaths of dispair.
5 Deaths of Dispair. First suggested in 1897 by French Sociologist^^^^^^^^Has 'anomic suicides', alienated
death/suicide due to breakdown in social equilibrium or social nonTTsHacl^^ommuna^pin^r percieved
government indiference to their needs. It was again brought forth in the late 1990's by             and^^^J
^^^Hfrom Princeton, finding alcohol and drugs, alcohol liver disease and increses in suicide are largely driven
by economic misery.
 - COVID-19 Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022
 - Fair Work Amendment (Prohibiting Covid-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023

Because of this many citizens including front line workers who chose to not participate in the
'mRNA vaccine' partially approved use roll out suffered mentally, financially and socially.
This included suspensions, employees fired and ensuing consequences such as lost homes
and homelessness, relationship and family breakdowns, suicide and domestic abuse
increasing due to social and economic consequences.
More to the point society as a whole lost the use of paramedics, police, doctors, nurses,
firefighters, teachers and child care employees and psychologists etc. Some of whom spoke
out about the harms and dangers to society but were attacked and defamed or censored.

It is clear that Vaccines can and do cause harm as evidenced by the number of reports
accepted by the TGA6. Provisionally registered medical products rely on adverse event
reporting to build a safety profile, the majorty of reports received by the TGA have
historically been submitted by doctors and medical professionals or pharmaceutical
companies. The Forrest of The Fallen7 is a phenomenon throughout Australia that displays
memorials to some of the dead and permanently injured. There are over 2,500 papers
published on the side affects and harms, including death, that can arise from the covid-19
vaccines that were coerced into many people. There are plenty of medical professionals
qualified to summarise and point to key findings. The evidence is growing weekly about the
harms of masks, vaccine, medical and social measures. Any government department or
policy using bribes or coercion to increase uptake or minimize actual harms of the measures
implemented were and are a huge problem.

Other evidence supporting the impact of the failure to pass these bills above is a recent
paper concluding that the un-vaccinated were unfairly scapegoated and suffered
discrimination8.

The Australian Government failed to follow protocols from past pandemic plans even those
developed through Australian funds in favor of a novel approach that was experimental and
harmful. Dr^^^^^^^^^^^^ormer WHO advisor9, professor and expert in Pandemic
preparedness in Switzerland attests the lockstep approach of the Western world went
against all former past pandemic approaches and plans.

Failure to address discrimination of the un-vaccinated also resulted in many experts and
leaders in their field being ridiculed, fired and silenced, even early on when little was known
and all information should have been considered10. There are still professionals who went
along to keep jobs that are well aware of how grievous the vaccine coercion and social



6 TGA tga.gov.au/news/covid-19-vaccine-safety-reports/covid-19-vaccine-safety-report-02-ll-23
Reports a reporting rate or 2 per 1000, or 139,654 reported adverse events. This is far in excess of one in a
million and there are 1004 reports of death. Noting the majority of DEAN reports are from doctors or medical
personel. Many are likley serious in nature including the acknowledged peri and myocarditis. TTP, clots etc.
7 See lettersfromaustralia.substack.com/p/australia-has-no-idea-how-many-people
8 A Useful sumary/interpretation can be found at vigilantnews.com/post/unvaccinated-scapegoated/
9                          PhD MSc a professor and researcher. Eg worldcouncilfor health.org/multimedia/dr-
astrid-stuckelberger-who-pandemic-treaty/ she has been voicing conerns about the globs covid respones and
measure since 2020.
10 Eg amps.redunion.com.au Australian Medical Professionals Society who aim to provide an alternate voice to
the AMA.
measures pushed in Australia were. If the inquiry doesn't give a voice to many of these
people the public will suspect large bias.

Of great concern to many was the overreach of extending the state of emergency past what
was understood to be legally allowable, withholding constitutional rights to its citizens such
as the right to work and travel within Australia and ignoring medical rights to refuse
treatments and visitation to dying loved ones, postponing weddings, making funerals
remote view only and pushing interventions that constituted huge conflict with the
agreements made under the Helsinki Accord and the Nuremberg Code11.

In terms of securing medicine and vaccines it appears that in Australia, as well as
internationally, supplies were required to be bought based off international agreements
with pharmaceutical companies and NGO's?
Imagine a future where purchase wasn't of poorly tested novel technologies and purchase of
amounts was based on demand and not excessive, such as five times the requirements per
person, ordered in advance for every citizen - at a time when they were only partially
approved for the elderly. It looks to some like pre-meditaion or money-laundering.

Imagine a future where measures were advice only and experts on all sides were allowed
debate and public forums, good ideas and truth tend to win the public over. Wasn't that
what Sweden did? And as a result has had lower all cause mortality in the last 4 years
combined, less economic disruption and less mental health and educational fall out. If
politicians and media backed off from doctor patient choices and allowed practitioners to
prescribe and advise on a case by case basis trust for future government advice may improve.
Why did Australian governments make access to approved drugs difficult when evidence of
their benefit was growing and their risks known? Who made these decisions and what they
were based on? Conflicts of interest should be investigated.

Quarantine facilities, vaccine coercion/ mandates, lock downs and universal masking
amongst other measures were understood by many to constitute human rights violations as
early as 2020 and were protested frequently during the past 4 years in capital cities and
regional centers.                human rights activist a holocaust survior likened the
treatment of the un-vaccinated to that of the Jews in the German pre World War Two lead
    . The Australian Government effectively allowed and encouraged this treatment.
up1213

Lastly if one wants to make sense of the evolution of the pathogen covid-19 and the
'countermeasures'/ mRNA platform vaccines look to Drpatent analysis of
how we got both the covid-19 pandemic and the 'vaccines'.
And for harms of the vaccines listen to recent NZ whistleblower14 speaking to the batch and
site mortality rates with temporal association.




11 The Nuremberg code is for permissable Medical experiments. As the vaccine platfrom was a novel technology,
not properly tested and not approved except provisionally they remain experimental. No experiment according
to this code may be given without free consent. Holding social inclusion, access to emplyment or education etc is
coercion, ovverreach and duress. Also 5. states that when there is fore knowledge that diability or death may
result the experiment may not be conducted. That is why adverse events were minimised, victims gaslit because
it was clear before the middle of 2022 that people were becoming injured and some were dying. This was long
before it was expanded to children.
12                under of the Reliance for Human Research Protection. Spoke at the 75th Anniversary of the
Nuremberg Code in Nuremberg.
13                  bitchute.com/video/nq8E08olPG5W/
14 Rumble.com/v3ynskd-operatiom-m.o.a.r-mother-of-all-revelation.html
