4th December 2023


To The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel,


I wrote a letter back in August of 2021 and sent it to a number of both State and Federal
Parliamentarians. Reading back through the letter brought back traumatic memories of the
absolute reign of tyranny citizens of Australia faced during the Covid-19 pandemic, as a direct
result of Government intervention and policies.


In this submission I will outline some key points that I believe highlights the utter failure of
our Government to adapt to new data and evidence and preserve fundamental human rights
during the course of the pandemic.


   1. Government failed to refer to existing documentation around pandemic preparedness
       and instead created panicked "solutions" on the run such as locking down all citizens,
       which never formed part of any prior recommendations.
   2. Failure to adapt to real life data and instead continued to develop policies based on
       inaccurate modelling. For example the average age of a COVID-19 death in Australia
       was higher than the average life expectancy. There was a 97.7% recovery rate across
       Australia (as at July 2021). These statistics were ignored and instead case numbers
       were the focus which lead to disproportionate interventions.
   3. Shutting down parliament for a significant period of time so no debates or democratic
       processes could take place.
   4. One dimensional approach to the fanciful idea of eradicating Covid-19              which
       inevitably lead to consequences that were far more problematic than the disease. For
       example, the significant rise in mental health related concerns due to the complete
       and devastating isolation during lockdowns. On Monday 16th August 2021 Lifeline
       reported 3,436 calls in one-single-day. The highest daily number of phone calls in their
       history. Worst still, the flow on effects to mental health are still seen today. Another
       consequence of the lockdowns was where small family businesses were demolished
       while multinationals and big corporations thrived under lockdown policies. Families
       never recovered financially and recently pressure has been exacerbated by the
       increased cost of living.
   5. Citizens were commanded to "stay at home", "work from home", "only leave for
       essential reasons" and yet our Prime Minister left Australia to meet with world leaders
       for the G7 Summit. Why couldn't this have taken place online? Hypocritical leadership
       that has no right to determine what is and isn't essential when it comes to being able
       to make a living to put food on the table and a roof over your families head.
   6. Turned a blind eye to experts and other places around the world that provided
       alternate strategies to lockdowns. For example, the demonisation of the warnings and
       suggestions outlined in the Great Barrington Declaration despite thousands of experts
         signing on worldwide. Countries and places such as Sweden, South Korea and Florida
         allowed life to proceed whilst managing the virus. Sweden never locked down, never
         forced a business to close, never implemented mask mandates or caps on gatherings.
         They simply encouraged people to take responsibility for themselves, keep their
         distance where possible and protect the most vulnerable. Sweden's approach was
         constantly ridiculed by the self labelled 'trustworthy' media as "...an example of how
         not to handle the COVID-19 pandemic" but as the data showed, this was far from the
         truth. 21 out of 30 countries across Europe had higher excess mortality rates than
         Sweden in 2020 and their case numbers continued to stabilise. At the end of July 2021,
         their daily rolling average COVID-19 death toll was ZERO.
   7. Failure to respond to the overwhelming number of adverse reports (TGA) due to the
         rollout of the Covid-19 vaccines. The most responsible decision would be to shut the
         rollout down.
   8. Refusal to pay compensation to people who were injured by the vaccines via the
         compensation scheme. (Read more here: https://gerardrennick.com.au/tga-are-the-
         culprits-again-rejecting-vaccine-compensation-claims/)
   9. Abusing the sanctity of the doctor/patient relationship. The federal government
         enabled this by allowing business and other places to gain access to private medical
         information for example, vaccination status.
   10.       Deprived citizens of effective early treatment options.


There are a number of other examples but these were the most prominent in terms of their
impact to fundamental human rights and citizens freedom.


Thank you for taking the time to read and I hope it provides some points of deep reflection.


I look forward to hearing the results from the inquiry and hope that it shapes policies in a
more just way should there be another situation like this in future.


Regards,
