SUBMISSION TO THE COVID 19 INQUIRY.

For many decades an unelected , centralised power structure has been building in the shadows. This
structure is above international law, it has never been accountable. This powerful entity is now in
the process of taking control of all Nation States and their citizens. Collectively, The Bank of
International Settlements , The World Economic Forum, World Bank, the US Federal Reserve, the
International Monetary Fund, the United Nations, the City of London, the World Health
Organisation, and many other affiliated unelected institutions, N.G.O.s, hedge funds , lying
"philanthropic" billionaires,globalist corporations and
foundations now have the necessary technology and are on target to undermine the world
economy, create conflict, manufacture crises and control all resources, technology, information,
food , energy and ultimately the human population.

 This unelected global force has been placing people, strategies and mechanisms in all governments,
regulatory authorities, media, academia, and corporate entities to facilitate a technocratic
totalitarian , authoritarian, physical and digital control structure over all of humanity.

They now have the technology in place and the puppets in government, in the media and in the
bureaucracy. These puppets hold positions of power and influence.

The Covidl9 pandemic was the first visible stage of the imposition of the globalist agenda on
countries worldwide.

 There was no killer virus , there was and is no pandemic. There was however, the weaponization of
a flu by the U.N and the World Health Organisation. The so-called virus killed mainly people in their
eighties with two or more pre-existing life-threatening illnesses. There were no excess deaths from
the bullshit virus. No " novel " virus has been proven to exist. The real "pandemic" was the
tyrannical imposition of restrictions , punishments and unlawful mandaates forced on the people.
Lockdown, propaganda , and the deliberate fear,confusion, and hysteria whipped up by
governments, media, health officers, and pharmaceutical funded experts was used as a weapon
against the people of the world .

Under the cloak of the "pandemic" governments took the opportunity to award themselves
unprecedented , authoritarian, dictatorial and undemocratic Draconian powers. The mainstream
media said nothing or happily cheered the process on.

 A useless , ineffective , unscientific , inappropriate and fraudulent P.C.R. testing regime was
implemented to create the illusion of a terrifying number of cases. The R.A.T. test is equally useless,
unscientific and inaccurate. If these tests could not identify a virus , how were the bullshit variants
identified?

The globalists created this opportunity to lock up healthy people, shut down society, punish small
and medium sized businesses, spread fear, lies and confusion, undermine the economy, shut down
free speech, restrict personal freedom, enforce medical experiments, and eliminate rule of law.
Governments and media throughout the planet happily moved in lockstep to promote the lies and
enforce the restrictions.

 Next came the " solution" to the pandemic. An untested , experimental, gene altering toxin with no
manufacturer liability was " warpspeeded " to the market.                        signed the whole
country up as guinea pigs and lab rats. They and many others in authority who promoted the jab are
liars and traitors and will have their day in court. There was no long-term safety trials or safety data
. It was then forced, coerced, and mandated to a trusting , unsuspecting population. There was no
informed consent. There was no duty of care. The vaccine is not a vaccine, it does not stop infection
or transmission. The " vaccine" is a countermeasure according to the U.S.A. Department of Defense .
A countermeasure places the "vaccine " in the" weapon "category.

Since when does one human , because of their political position have the right to enforce a medical
experiment on another human ? I mean, si nee                  The media said nothing.

 All governments and media became advertising, promotion and distribution resources for big
Pharma. Our country was turned into an Orwellian dystopian nightmare featuring police brutality
against peaceful protestors and healthy non mask wearers, creation of a two-tiered society,
style censorship , endless media propaganda, Draconian lockdowns, social distancing, encouraging
neighbours to dob on neighbours, useless but damaging to the wearer mask wearing , QR track and
tracing, vaccine mandates, vaccine passports, all with no scientific epidemical evidence or respect
to human rights, or anything related to natural health .

 No children or babies were harmed from the ' virus", yet the powers that be decided to throw
innocent, healthy kids under the experimental vaccine bus to "save granny". This criminal act is an
indictment on our whole society. Babies and little kids were experimented on, and the media said
nothing. Where was the outrage??? Where is the outrage now, where is the humanity??

 Extreme censorship of alternative views became the order of the day. Debate was and still is shut
down by government and media. The proposed Communications Legislation
Amendment (Combatting Misinformation) will be the death knell for free speech in this country .On
one hand our insipid , vacuous P.M. promotes the "Voice ", while hypocritically promoting extreme
censorship of free speech. The ultimate betrayal.

 Known , tried and tested therapeutics were suppressed and denied to "covid" patients. These were
suppressed to allow the continuance of the Emergency Use Authorisation.

 Medical professionals that prescribed these known cures were threatened and silenced by
corrupted regulatory authorities.




 Covid death numbers were further inflated through the fraudulent PCR tests no matter the real
cause of death.

Worldwide data and evidence of the deaths injuries and permanent, life altering damage from the
mRNA experiment is being ignored and supressed by government and media and regulatory
authorities , even when their own data proves the case . (D.A.E.N , V.A.E.R.S, U.K Yellow card data )

Actuarial and government data relating to EXCESS DEATHS worldwide of between 15 and 30 percent
in the mainly younger and healthier demographic since the rollout of the" vaccine "is also being
supressed and ignored by government and media. Distressing data relating to the deaths and
adverse events in the healthier working population due to the mandates enforced on people so they
could keep their jobs are not being reported.. Why is the media not discussing this issue? You would
think at least one media outlet would have some curiosity regarding the deaths of fellow Australians.
 Media and health authorities try to normalise myocarditis, pericarditis, died suddenly, paralysis,
Bells Palsy, blood clots, menstrual abnormalities , the explosion of shingles and cancer,fertility issues
,foetus malformations , birthing issues etc, etc in otherwise healthy people ( healthy, until they
were jabbed).

The vaccination status of the ill, the hospitalized and dead is no longer read out at daily press
conferences or included in government data. State premiers and health officials had no problem
relating the deaths of 90-year-old " so called covid victims" daily. Now , when the excess death rate
has increased exponentially , nothing , nada ,^^^11 from the premiers , health officials ,
mainstream . Why not Ben , why not? Real people dying in real time from the " vaccine " and only
the unvaccinated seem to give a      The unvaccinated or vaccine injured are the only ones fighting
for everyone's freedom and health outcomes .

 The "long covid " lie continues to be a part of the narrative , long covid is not from a virus, it is
however an adverse reaction to the jab. The jab is breaking down vaccinated peoples' immune
system , leaving them more vulnerable and exposed to infection, inflammation , and acceleration of
underlying health issues. This is one of the many reasons the vaccination status is not being recorded
, reported or bellowed from press conferences. Unvaccinated people do not suffer from long covid
or suddenly died , myocarditis , Bell's palsy, turbo cancer or the many other vaccine related
illnesses. We respect our immune systems, and we take a holistic view of health and seek natural
remedy rather than a prescribed Petro chemical derived pharmaceutical solution..

 The media and our elected representatives, and regulators refuse to seek the truth, acknowledge
the truth, or report the truth , which leads me to question their motivation. They focus on the
distractions, supress the truth and never come close to the real issues.
