                       Australian Government
                       Office of the Australian Information Commissioner




Our reference: D2023/029520

COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet

Online lodgement: www.pmc.gov.au/covid-19-response-inquiry/consultation

Submission by the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner to the
COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Dear Panel
The Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC) welcomes the opportunity to
make a submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel to inform recommendations that
aim to improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.
This submission outlines the OAlC’s role during the COVID-19 pandemic, and key learnings
that can be used to ensure that privacy and access to information are strategic considerations
and enabling factors in any future pandemic responses.

Overview
The OAIC is an independent Commonwealth regulator within the Attorney-General ’s portfolio,
established to bring together three functions: privacy functions (protecting the privacy of
individuals under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (Privacy Act) and other legislation), freedom of
information (FOI) functions (access to information held by the Commonwealth Government in
accordance with the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth)), and information management
functions (as set out in the Australian Information Commissioner Act 2010 (Cth)).
The COVID-19 pandemic posed unprecedented challenges and the Australian Government
needed to respond rapidly, making wide-ranging decisions that had significant impacts across
all areas of society, including on public health and the economy. The use of personal
information was central to the public health response, facilitating critical data analysis and
supporting public health outcomes, while government release of timely and accurate
information helped citizens around the world respond and support containment efforts.
Privacy is a fundamental human right, as recognised in Article 12 of the UN Declaration of
Human Rights and Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
(ICCPR).1 However, the Privacy Act recognises that the right to privacy is not absolute, and
privacy rights may need to give way where there is a compelling public interest reason to do
so. In this regard, proportionality, reasonableness and necessity are key concepts that must
be considered when determining whether a particular impact on privacy is justifiable in the
circumstances.



1 The right to privacy is also enshrined in many other international and regional agreements.

                                                                                                OAIC
1300 363 992               T+61 2 9284 9749       GPO Box 5218          www.oaic.gov.au
oaic.gov.au/enquiry        F+61 2 9284 9666       Sydney NSW 2001       ABN 85 249 230 937
The COVID-19 pandemic heightened public awareness of the importance of the protection of
personal information and access to information, highlighting the need to develop and
maintain trust and confidence in government to ensure successful policy outcomes.

The role of the OAIC during the COVID-19 pandemic
The OAIC played a critical role in supporting the Australian Government’s response to COVID-
19. We worked closely with stakeholders across government and with our domestic and
international counterparts to highlight the need to maintain privacy and information access
frameworks, through proportionate and pragmatic public health responses, and the proactive
release of information which was of paramount importance. Our work contributed to
maintaining a principled, clear and consistent approach to the COVID-19 pandemic. In
particular, the OAIC worked collaboratively with the Australian Government to establish
appropriate privacy safeguards and oversight for the COVIDSafe app, assess and mitigate
privacy risks during the rollout of the COVID-19 vaccination program and digital vaccination
certificates, and published clear guidance on the importance of secure handling of
vaccination information.2 The OAIC also convened the National COVID-19 Privacy Team with
state and territory privacy regulators. The team met regularly throughout the pandemic to
consider and provide advice to government on privacy risks and proposals with national
implications, such as the collection of personal information for contact tracing purposes.
The OAIC and state and territory privacy commissioners and ombudsmen produced national
COVID-19 privacy principles to support a consistent approach to solutions and initiatives
designed to address the ongoing risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. A key principle was
purpose limitation which ensured that information collected for a specific purpose related to
mitigating the risks of COVID-19, like contact tracing, would not be used for other purposes.
The OAIC also joined with our access to information counterparts to issue a public statement
on the continued importance of transparency and FOI duringthe pandemic.3 Further, the
OAIC engaged proactively with international regulators, including leading the adoption of a
resolution at the International Conference of Information Commissioners that resulted in
publication of a joint statement supporting the proactive publication of information relating
to the COVID-19 pandemic.4

Recommendations for future responses
Proactive engagement
To ensure privacy is a core consideration in government decision making during future
pandemics, the OAIC strongly recommends proactive engagement and consultation with our
office, as well as other privacy regulators and relevant stakeholders. Engagement during the
early stages of response development and throughout a pandemic will ensure any
government proposals that may have an impact on privacy are reasonable, necessary, and
proportionate to achieving a legitimate policy aim.




2 See guidance developed for organisations and Australian Government agencies on the OAIC website, COVID-19.
3 OAIC, Joint statement on transparency and access to information during the COVID-19 outbreak, OAIC website, April
   2020.
4 OAIC, ICIC endorses OAIC resolution on proactive publication, OAIC website, June 2021.


                                                             2
Government policy solutions that incorporate appropriate privacy safeguards, protect
personal information and minimise privacy risks are also critical to generating the public trust
and confidence required for their successful implementation.
Appropriate privacy safeguards
Part of taking a proportionate approach is considering what safeguards can be implemented
to mitigate privacy risks. For example:
•   Implementing a ‘privacy by design’ approach, by which privacy is designed into
    government responses from the start, will ensure objectives are achieved in ways that are
    less privacy intrusive.
•   Ensuring government responses adopt the data minimisation principle, which limits
    the collection of personal information, including sensitive health information, to the
    minimum information reasonably necessary to achieving the legitimate purpose.
•   Ensuring purpose limitation is adopted in any frameworks established to collect
    personal information, so that information is generally not used for other purposes and is
    destroyed once it is no longer needed.
•   Ensuring that government policy decisions take into account the security of personal
    information and ensure it is protected from misuse, interference and loss, and from
    unauthorised access, modification or disclosure.
Coordination and collaboration
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the need for comprehensive privacy laws to ensure the
protection of personal information. For instance, early in the pandemic we observed the rapid
development and rollout of contact tracing apps by app developers that may not have been
covered by the Privacy Act due to the small business exemption, which raised privacy risks.
The OAIC supports the proposal to remove the small business exemption as part of the Privacy
Act Review. More broadly, Commonwealth, State and Territory governments are increasingly
working together on national initiatives that involve sharing information across jurisdictions
including in the response to the pandemic. In these circumstances, it’s critical that there are
nationally consistent privacy laws to ensure personal information is subject to similar
protections across jurisdictions and to provide clarity and simplicity for regulated entities and
the community. To this end, one of the objects of the Privacy Act is to provide the basis for
nationally consistent regulation of privacy and the handling of personal information. As part
of the current Privacy Act Review the Government also agrees in-principle that a working
group should be convened to work towards harmonising key elements of Commonwealth and
state and territory privacy laws, with the forward work agenda for the working group subject
to agreement with states and territories (proposal 29.3).
Appropriate funding of oversight bodies
Ensuring sustainable funding of our office and other important oversight bodies will also be
essential to ensuring effective performance of our ongoing roles and any additional
responsibilities resulting from future pandemics.
Support for proactive publication and timely decision making
Agencies are encouraged to develop strategies to support sudden increases in access requests
and timely decision making, including developing organisational capability to respond to


                                              3
requests within legislative timeframes and identifying information that can be proactively
published.
In future pandemics, proactive publication of information should be supported and
implemented by governments. Recognising the role that access to information has in building
community trust during times of crisis is critical. Public authorities make significant decisions
which affect public health, civil liberties and economic participation. The importance of good
record-keeping, transparency and access to information is therefore amplified in the context
of any global pandemic.
If we are able to be of further assistance to the Panel please contact Stephanie Otorepec,
Director on                 or                                  and copy


Yours sincerely




Angelene Falk
Australian Information Commissioner
Privacy Commissioner

20 December 2023




                                              4
