Relevant terms of reference:

    •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
        and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
        National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee)
        and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.
    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
        key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
        health messaging).

Submission:

On the 21 February 2021, the eve of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in Australia, the former Minister of
Health, Greg Hunt said:




That is exactly right. It was a clinical trial. And yet the “message to the public” was an utter
misrepresentation of that fact.

The vaccines were acknowledged to be a trial medical procedure on which a global collection of data
was taking place. It's safety and effectiveness to protect was unknown and therefore no one should
have been coerced to take them. The vaccines were not designed to prevent infection and
transmission and, therefore, vaccine mandates were never justified. Access to work, restaurants,
cinemas, restaurants, hairdressers, Bunnings and Officeworks (for goodness' sake), in fact, any public
space open to the public should never have depended upon vaccine status.

The Federal Government has and continues to push responsibility of vaccine mandates onto state
governments, as evidenced by the limited scope of this inquiry which refuses to consider actions that
fell under the jurisdiction of states. However, the Federal Government had numerous opportunities to
denounce and prevent discrimination on the basis of medical choice. But it failed to do so. It sat on its
hands, made empty statements about how vaccines were “voluntary” and in doing so, effectively,
endorsed medical discrimination and failed to uphold the requirement for valid consent in its own
Australian Immunisation Handbook.1      2

As an immigrant to Australia since childhood, I had always believed that I was lucky to be in Australia.
Australia was a fair country. A country that stood up for what was right. A country of integrity. A country
worthy of setting an example on the world stage. Sadly, the Australian response to the Covid-19
pandemic has been a rude awakening for me. I now whole-heartedly believe Australia is a backwards
country.

In comparison, I refer to the example of Japan. The message put out by the Japanese government,
and published by its Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare on its website, was:

“Please get vaccinated of your own decision, understanding both the effectiveness in preventing
infectious diseases and the risk of side effects. No vaccination will be given without consent. Please
do not force anyone in your workplace or those who around you to be vaccinated, and do not
discriminate against those who have not been vaccinated. ”3



1 https://www.greghunt.com.au/interview-with-david-speers-insiders-abc/

2 https://immunisationhandbook.health.gov.au/

3 https://www.mhlw.go.ip/stf/covid-19/vaccine.html
In addition, its Ministry of Justice actively encouraged, on its website, for the public to contact them for
advice if they had been discriminated against.4

Japan and Australia rolled out the same vaccines. The same vaccines which, I repeat, were not
designed to stop infection or transmission. The messaging in Japan was one of understanding,
compassion and logic. But the messaging from the Australian Government was cruel, indifferent,
unethical, divisive, illogical.

Australia, you have lost my trust. Australia, you have a lot to answer for.




4 https://www.moi.go.ip/content/001281977.pdf
