I request a Royal Commission for a proper investigation into the Covid 19 farce. The over- reaching
hand of government. These are the issues that concerned me:

1. The corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts.

2. Forcing humans to be guinea pigs to trial a bio- weapon and making them believe it would protect
them then and still now.

3. Enforcing mask mandates when the proof is that they don't work. Especially worse for children in
schools. The psychological and health harm from having to wear these. Children telling children off
for not wearing a mask or wearing them properly. Teachers having to be dictators.

4. Lockdowns. Causing businesses to close. Increasing harm for people with mental illnesses, forcing
domestic violence situations to worsen, placing children at risk in homes in unsafe environments, not
allowing people to be with loved ones in illness and dying, leaving vulnerable elderly to rot in nursing
homes especially dementia patients who had no idea why their family wasn't coming to see them.

5. Vaccine Mandates. This is a crime against humanity. Forcing people to take an untrialed injection
to keep their jobs! People lost careers and family members through conflict over the issue. This
created a division - the vaccinated vs the 'anti vaxxers'. There are still companies expecting a vaccine
certificate. This was and is unlawful.

6. Official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block
transmission. Lies, lies and more lies. Yet this was fed to the general public.

7. The fear campaign - On television every day and night - how many in hospital and how many
deaths. Never how many survived.

8. Poisons being used in the classroom by cleaners were toxic endocrine disruptors. But the
government sent product recommendations for schools to keep everyone 'safe'.

9. Vaccine injuries. These were hushed up. Never in the media or announcements from the
government. I personally know people who are vaccine harmed.

10. Media censorship. Content of 'Mis and Dis information' of the government agenda was removed
from social media. Alternate media was harassed.

11. Silencing of doctors. Doctors were not allowed to voice their opinions and research. They were
threatened to lose their jobs and APRHA registrations.

12 .The role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors.

13 . Victim treatment. Not allowing people to source and use other therapies such as a well known
and hugely studied drug Ivermectin. In fact, banning it from entering the country and threatening
those who tried to source it from overseas with fines and imprisonment.
