I worked in the healthcare industry on the front line for 17 years.

I worked through almost two years of the initial waves of infection with limited and substandard
PPE. I was told to re-use cloth gowns, instead of being supplied with impermeable gowns. I was
given one mask to be worn for my entire shift, and that mask would often be surgical mask, which
was never designed to limit the spread of disease. I saw ICUs being set up and remaining empty for
months. I watched nursing staff creating tic toe videos to kill time, because the fear-mongering
reduced the number of people who would risk going to the emergency department. Empty beds,
empty wards, none of which were being honestly reported by the media or the government.

I decided for myself, based on the information that was freely available on the internet in the early
months (prior to widespread censorship and dishonest retraction of legitimate research), including
information which has subsequently been publicly released through legal avenues, that the risk of
being injected with an mRNA experimental gene therapy over-rode any potential benefit to myself
or those around me. This included my 88 year-old mother, who also chose not to take the
experimental gene therapy. She is still alive and strong, with a healthy immune system and no
recent diagnoses of cancer, heart disease, auto-immune disease, stroke, or any other of the
thousands of documented side effects from the injected substance.

I spent months being confronted at work in public, with leadership attempting to nag and bully me
into getting a medical treatment that I did not want and strongly believed to be harmful. My health
information was not protected as it should have been per the privacy act.

The orchestrated reports by health services around the world and mainstream media did nothing to
allay my fears. “Safe and effective” without data is an empty phrase. It was never scientific,
research-based advice. It was propaganda, which was forced on the public at every level.

Watching as carefully investigated recommendations for a potential pandemic were disregarded:
ordering the isolation of asymptomatic healthy people instead of just the unwell; mask mandates put
in place in spite of research identifying the dangers of long term mask usage and lack of evidence to
support reduction in transmission. Either incompetent or maleficent actors were making decisions.

In October 2021 1 was suspended from my job while waiting for the outcome of an exemption
application. In February 2022 I was terminated from my job without ever having received a
response to my request for an adequate risk assessment. In all my interactions with the health
service, my request for a risk assessment was either ignored or answered with the CHO direction
states that you must comply.

The Commonwealth response that there were no mandates is a blatant lie.

A person is not “free to choose” when their livelihood is being threatened. Where there is ANY
RISK involved, there must by CHOICE.

I worked with a pregnant woman who was highly fearful of the potential damage to her baby if she
was forced to comply with these draconian mandates. She adamantly stated that she did not want
any injections and would not have them. When the deadline came, she felt force into complying in
order to continue providing for her baby and her other children.

I worked with doctors who were convinced that the risk of the injection was much higher than the
risk of illness or death from Covid. One left work rather than get the injection, but ultimately
complied because she was unable to make a living to support her children as a single parent.
The adjusted death statistics (people who died from Covid not just with Covid) show that Covid
killed approximately the same number of people as the flu does most years; however, the flu was
almost totally absent in 2021.

The damage done to myself and people I know, in not being able to travel to family events, funerals,
weddings, birthdays; in being forced to stay indoors unless it was within very limited guidelines; in
not being able to attend school; in not being allowed to be at the bedside of a dying relative; will
lead to lifelong trauma responses.

The experiment has enough data now to show that countries with minimal intervention and no
mandates obtained the best outcomes, including limited damage to the country’s finances and the
mental health of its citizens. Countries with strong lock-downs and mandates have fared worse on
all levels, including excess death rates, as shown by recently leaked reports from New Zealand,
which were not refuted.

I have noted a general increased lack of trust in the government, the medical system, and
mainstream media since the Covid restrictions were put in place, and, personally, it has caused me
to become someone who questions almost everything I believed in the past. I see this as the one
positive outcome from the mess that has been the Covid debacle.

Commonwealth assisted state government over-reach has damaged the economy, decimated the
numbers of available essential workers, ruined the health of many, taken lives and broken families,
and all the individuals directly responsible for enforcing the inappropriate rules need to be held
accountable for their actions as a matter of urgency.

Going forward, we need to learn from the experience, to limit any potential damage in the future.
