National
Farmers
Federation                                                                                            ■


  15 December 2023

  Ms Robyn Kruk AO, Professor Catherine Bennett, Dr Angela Jackson
  Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

  Via submission


  NFF SUBMISSION — COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 REPSONSE
  INQUIRY

  Dear Madame Chair,

  The National Farmers’ Federation (the NFF) thanks the Department of the Prime
  Minister and Cabinet for this opportunity to make a submission on the
  Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry.

  The NFF was established in 1979 as the national peak body representing farmers
  and, more broadly, agriculture across Australia. The NFF’s membership comprises
  all of Australia’s major agricultural commodities across the breadth and the length
  of the supply chain. Operating as a federation structure, individual farmers join
  their respective state farm organisation and/or national commodity council. These
  organisations form the NFF.

  As one of the largest industries in country, agriculture was vital in Australia’s
  ability to withstand the complications posed by COVID-19. Whilst much of the
  country was in lockdown, agriculture, to the best of its ability, continued to
  provide for the nation.

  Regarding this inquiry, the NFF would like to bring the panel’s attention to the
  following issues in relation to the farm workforce and access to labour:

     •         Domestic and international border closures, and

     •         The utilisation of Pacific workers in the agricultural sector.

  Domestic and international border closures posed significant difficulties to the
  agricultural sector during the COVID-19 pandemic. The movement of workers,
  equipment, and stock was heavily impacted by the Federal Government’s decision
  to limit interstate and international travel. Over half of the overseas workers who
  found work on Australian farm were not allowed to enter the country due to the
  differing quarantine rules in each state. The choice to limit free movement over
  domestic borders also caused many agricultural services staff to refuse harvesting
  contracts due to the necessity to travel interstate. These two factors contributed
  to a severe shortage in agricultural workers, leading to significant loss in the
  industry.




Leading
                              NFF House
Australian                    14-19 Brisbane Ave.   Locked Bag 9        (02} 6269 5666
Agriculture                   Barton ACT 2600       Kingston ACT 2600   nff.org.au       ABN 77 097140 166
Moreover, the closure of domestic borders meant that there was significant
difficulty transporting agricultural products, plant and equipment between states
during harvest season. This posed a particular difficulty for those farmers whose
properties were spread across state borders.

In general, the lack of understanding of decision makers in Canberra appeared to
have around the agricultural industry led to the greatest amount of difficulty.
Agriculture, being an outdoors and low risk industry, was subject to restrictions
that the NFF and its members do not believe were necessary, particularly the
closure of borders.

Conversely, the NFF welcomed the restart and reinvigoration of the Pacific
Australia Labour Mobility (PALM) Scheme that took place during the pandemic. The
lack of Working Holiday Makers (WHMs) coming to Australia during the pandemic
led the then Government to seek alternative sources of labour for the horticulture
industry. This brought the Government’s focus to the PALM Scheme, which prior to
COVID-19 had only around 7,140 workers working on horticulture farms in
Australia.

It needs to be said that the restart was not the panacea some may have taken it
to be, given that for the most part, it only Largely served the horticulture sector.
While there may have been a few PALM workers outside horticulture, by-and-Large
the other commodities - such as grains, wool production, cotton, etc. - were Left
struggling to find workers.

It should also be observed that government could have done more to support
uptake of the scheme. We were especially disappointed at some of the finger
pointing between state and federal governments. To industry, it appeared that
federalism was used as an excuse to avoid taking responsibility, properly
governing, and making decisions.

Nevertheless, the fact remains that the PALM restart was fundamental to the
success (and, from some perspectives) survival of the horticulture industry during
the period. At the height of COVID-19, the number of PALM Scheme workers
working in horticultural or agricultural farms had doubled to over 14,900 workers.
Now the Scheme boasts to around 26,196 workers working on horticultural or
agricultural farms, with over 38,145 PALM workers working across care, agriculture,
hospitality, and meat sectors.

One of the positive outcomes of the COVID-19 pandemic was the refocus of the
government onto Labour requirements in the agricultural industry. This scheme not
only offered a great benefit to Australian farmers but also provided much needed
financial assistance to Pacific nations who were struggling during the pandemic.

In summary, while the NFF and its members are pleased with the reinvigoration of
the PALM Scheme, we believe that many other measures taken by the Federal
Government during the pandemic were unnecessary and ill-informed. Better
consultation and understanding with and of the agricultural industry would have
assisted the Government in making more reasoned decisions in relation to COVID-
19 restrictions.
                                                                       Page | 3


The NFF would Like to the thank the panel for giving us to make our submission on
behalf of our members,


Yours Sincerely




Tony Mahar
CEO
National Farmers Federation
