I have debated whether or not it is worth my time to make a submission as it seems farcical
that an inquiry into the handling of the pandemic will not even look at any of the actions of
the State governments that make up the Commonwealth, as they carried the bulk of the
weight in forcing measures on the Australian people while the Federal Government sat back
and claimed to have no powers, and simply dished out taxpayer money like Monopoly money
with no thought as to how future generations will handle the ensuing mountain of debt. It
seems apparent to many that this “inquiry” will simply be a whitewash and a pat on the back
for all those who already told the public they have done a fantastic job. It is interesting to
note how many of the state premiers have now resigned rather than face public elections
again.

It is also noteworthy that a ridiculously short time was given for the public to make any
submissions to the inquiry, so it also seems apparent that they are not wanted.

That said, I want my comments on public record and to remind you, as you go through this
process, that you are public servants and that means serving the Australian public’s best
interests and not the interests of politicians and foreign entities such as the World Health
Organisation, the UN, and the World Economic Forum, to name just a few.

The COVID era - from March 2020 until now could also be known as the era where human
rights in Australia were thrown under the bus. The use of violence, especially by federal and
state police officers against people exercising their freedom to protest was disturbing in the
extreme, especially when the same police allowed Black Lives Matters protests to go ahead
unhindered.

The use of coercion against people who did not wish to take part in a medical experiment
with a series of drugs that were under provisional approval due to the “state of emergency”
cannot be understated or ignored. Financial coercion with the threat of losing one’s job was
rampant and despicable and criminal. It continues to this day with many workplaces still
enforcing “vaccine” policies. I am one of many thousands who lost my job due to being
unwilling to be experimented upon, despite spending 2020 and 2021 working in schools and
being told I was safe to be there as “kids don’t get it”. I only became a dire health threat to
others after the so-called vaccines became commercially available and the Western
Australian state government enforced vaccine mandates.

The deliberate division of society into the clean (jabbed) and unclean (unjabbed) was evil in
the extreme and the use of the media by government sources to spread daily fear and daily
“case” numbers, all the while highlightin^io^iiany “unvaccinated” people were in hospital
was a case of propaganda that would give^^^^l a run for his money. It is interesting to
note that not once has the same level of energy been used to share the number of
“vaccinated” who are injured or dead. But that is outside the scope of your inquiry so we will
quietly sweep that under the rug, shall we?

The use of the fictional “National Cabinet” is                     on behalf of the Federal and
State governments. No such entity exists under our Constitution and therefore EVERY
decision and action made by this illegal entity is illegal. That alone should be sufficient for
your committee to denounce their actions taken during the CO VID era. The minutes of these
meetings have been a closely guarded secret and yet they ruled the lives of every Australian
for 3 years and are still ongoing. These minutes and all decisions must be made public.
It is beyond alarming that Scott Morrison was able to grant himself numerous ministerial
portfolios in complete secrecy and with the apparent approval of the Governor General only
after the facts were made public. The idea that such power would be given to one individual
is horrifying in the extreme and smacks of dictatorship rather than the supposed democratic
society we all used to believe existed in this country.

The Federal Government sat back and did nothing while the states violated our national
border controls and denied Australians entry to the nation and then used lines on a map to
violate every Australian’s constitutional right to freedom of movement within the national
border. This resulted in untold turmoil as people were cut off from their homes, their
families, their medical care, their jobs and many other things. To allow children to die
because they were sick and on the wrong side of a line on a map is beyond reprehensible.
This cannot be allowed to ever be done again.

Scott Morrison repeatedly told us that there was no federal vaccine mandate because he knew
full well that he couldn’t legally introduce one, so he went around the problem by allowing
the State governments to introduce and enforce illegal mandates and he did nothing to stop
them. If it truly was all about health, why were federal employees, politicians and judges
exempted? Do they not deserve the same level of “health care”? These mandates violated
basic human rights of bodily autonomy as set out in the UN Charter of Human Rights and the
Nuremberg Code. All those who enforced them must be held accountable, from the top down.

The fact that known and effective treatments with drugs such as Ivermectin (that has been
safely used for decades) and hydrochloroquine were quickly ridiculed, vilified, and then
banned, is a blight on the medical hierarchy that cost many lives. The toll is yet to be fully
calculated and may never be. The fact that^^^^^^^^paid for adequate doses for every
Australian and then the Federal Government seized and destroyed them, means that the
Federal Government directly cost lives. Of course, these treatments had to be discredited and
banned in order for a false State of Emergency to be declared (as it could not be done if there
was any kind of treatment available), in order for unknown and previously unused drugs to be
given emergency approval. As billions of dollars were at stake, cheap and readily available
proven treatments could not be allowed to get in the way of these lucrative contracts.

Speaking of lucrative contracts - why were drug companies given blanket immunity for their
products that they admitted were still in the trial phase? When             as the Federal
Health Minister announced that Australia was taking part in the biggest drug trial ever, he
announced that his government had sold Australia to the drug companies for experimentation.
The result is that any deaths or injuries that can be proven through the unnecessarily complex
and arduous process, may be compensated by the Australian taxpayers, but not by the drug
companies that caused the injury or death. The level of secrecy and collusion surrounding
these contracts must be publicly exposed as it is the taxpayers who are footing the never­
ending bills.

The role of AHPRA in muzzling dissenting voices from medical experts and threatening
deregistration to anybody who spoke up, is akin to any tyrannical government of the past and
present that Australians used to point out as a bad thing. This unelected body has held far too
much power over the medical profession and the fact the Prime Minister’s brother is a part of
the machinery raises multiple questions about the ability to act impartially. The ongoing
impact to our medical professionals is still being calculated but Australia has lost thousands
of dedicated nurses, doctors and other clinicians who will never return to our public hospitals
or private practice.

The fact that the TGA approved the MRNA gene therapies and called them vaccines without
ever assessing them as genetically modified organisms is a clear breach of the law. The TGA
has                                on jab injuries and deaths and is complicit in further injuries
and deaths by doing so. They have misled the public by telling us that the jabs were all safe
and effective while knowing full well that the^wem still in the experimental stage (so safety
is still being evaluated) and in the case of th^^^J jabs, had never even been tested for
effectiveness in stopping transmission. This deception led many people to believe the jabs
were of great worth and they willingly went and took them. Not one Australian gave
informed consent and not one Australian was properly informed as the TGA lied to us all.

As I have already stated, I hold little faith in the genuine desire of this committee to actually
examine anything in depth or offer any real measures for future pandemic responses. The
bottom line is that the Federal Government and all of the State Governments crossed many
lines in their handling of the COVID era. Their actions were criminal and in direct violation
of our constitutional and basic human rights. Many of our politicians and their associates
benefited enormously, both financially and in other ways. Until those matters are addressed
and people are held to account for them, there is really no point in expecting anything to be
done any better or differently the next time a manufactured emergency is thrust upon us. You
hold a grave responsibility in your hands to search for truth and to share it with the public. If
this inquiry turns out to be the whitewash that we are all expecting, you join the long line of
people with blood on their hands and history will hold you accountable.



Lynette Bayakly
