Re: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

To Whom It May Concern

This seems to be a farcical exercise, seeing that the government has secretly
only given the public one week to submit a response to the inquiry that will be
held. It appears it will not assume accountability, but is merely seeking broader
means to enforce their will upon the people.

The Covid era, which includes present times, has seen the government take
extreme measures to extend and grant itself enormous powers - powers never
given to them under any law in Australia or the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Australia, to make decisions that would alter lives forever,
based on very scant information and not science. The use of violence and
coercion against dissenters was unlawful to say the least - behaviour more
evident in dictatorship realms than in a 'free and democratic' country. The
government and media bombardment of false information was extreme, filled
with lies and drowned in elitism.

Never before in the history of the world has the 'healthy' been asked to
medicate for the sake of the elderly or infirm. Not only that but they were
coerced into taking the jab despite it not having been tested for safety and
effectiveness. Lies were told, yes, with the government telling all who would
listen that the jabs were safe and effective. What a LIE I The government even
enforced this jab mandate on pregnant women and babies. How disgusting and
criminal!

Men and women were prevented from earning a living to provide for their
families, and we have no clue as to how many marriages were shattered as a
result, and how many people committed suicide because life was made
impossible for them. The government kept families from each other with some
silly 'border', conveniently forgetting that covid was an airborne sickness and
the germs did not recognise these contrived man-made barriers. How
ridiculous! History will mock these leaders and their assumed 'wisdom'.

The majority of children were excluded from their education. Parents who were
scrambling to make ends meet somehow were forced to educate their children.
The very parents who had entrusted the education of their children to the
mighty government were hopelessly betrayed by the very people they trusted.
Most children ended up playing games all day long, not engaging in any healthy
physical, social, emotional or educational activities. Of course, the rich elites
were able to hire tutors or teachers to exclusively teach their children. They
never missed a beat.

Thousands of businesses folded as a direct result of the covid excessive
response to a relatively minor illness, from which most people recovered. With
businesses gone, homes and lives were 'smashed and broken'. Criminal!

People died in old-aged homes and hospitals without their loved ones to give
them some comfort. Heartless!

The government has covered up how many deaths have occurred as a result of
the jabs enforced on people. Children, young people, generally healthy mid-
forties-and-fifties-aged people, suddenly die in their tracks for no reason.

When will these criminals who posed as the government be brought to justice
to be accountable for the deaths, pain, loss and hardships of the people they
were meant to help and protect? I am not holding my breath with this inquiry.
After all, you may slap the wrists of the federal government, but there is still
the issue of each state government who were just as vicious and ruthless in the
administration of their 'duties'.

Unless we learn genuine lessons from this exercise, we can never again call
ourselves a 'democratic' or 'free' country, because as it stands today, we still
bear the burden of mandates, violence and coercion in many areas of life.
Human rights will be just a flicker of memory of what once was if we don't turn
away from this madness of governmental overreach.

May God help you make wise decisions.
