25/10/2021


I write regarding the matter of potential covid vaccine and my desire to be fully informed and
appraised of ALL facts before going ahead. I'd be most grateful if you could please provide the
following information, in accordance with statutory legal requirements.

1. Can you please advise the approved legal status of any vaccine and if it is experimental?
2. Can you please provide details and assurances that the vaccine has been fully, independently, and
rigorously tested against control groups and the subsequent outcomes of those tests?
3. Can you please advise the entire list of contents of the vaccine I am to receive and if any are toxic
to the body?
4. Can you please fully advise of all the adverse reactions associated with this vaccine since its
introduction?
5. Can you please confirm that the vaccine you are advocating is NOT experimental mRNA gene
altering therapy?
6. Can you please confirm that I will not be under any duress from yourselves as my employers, in
compliance with the Nuremberg Code?
7. Can you please advise me of the likely risk of fatality, should I be unfortunate to contract Covid 19
and the likelihood of recovery?
8. Can you please advise me if I were to experience any adverse reactions is the manufacturer of the
vaccine liable? If the manufacturer isn't liable will the company, I'm currently employed with be
responsible & liable as it is their request that I have the vaccine to carry on my employment?

I also request risk assessment that shows an unvaccinated person is a threat and more risk than a
vaccinated person being at the workplace. (A risk assessment is required by law and must be done at
the actual workplace! Not at some high up bosses office).
* ask for the vaccine MSDS, (it is law for the workplace to provide a MSDS).
* ask your employer to provide substantial scientific evidence to prove the vaccines are safe,
effective and necessary - in those exact words (as the TGA was asked this but couldn't provide it).


Once I have received the above information in full and I am satisfied that there is NO threat to my
health, I will be happy to accept your offer to receive the treatment, but with certain conditions -
namely that:

1. You confirm in writing that I will suffer no harm.
2. Following acceptance of this, the offer must be signed by a fully qualified doctor who will take full
legal and financial responsibility for any injuries occurring to myself, and/or from any interactions by
authorized personnel regarding these procedures.
3. If I should have to decline the offer of vaccination, please confirm that it will not compromise my
position and that I will not suffer prejudice and discrimination as a result?

I would also advise that my inalienable rights are reserved.
Should I be dismissed, due to my decision, I request the company to give me a letter with my co­
ordinators name, managers name, CEO, COO and CFO's name. The organisations name, my name,
and the date of said decision as a dismissal if I'm not vaccinated. I will then seek legal action and
involve Fair Work. As you may be aware Work Safe is at State Level, Fair Work is at Federal Level. A
formal complaint will be put in order.



State that you stand to lose your job as of Dec 1 and the following information:

This 'mandate' breaks the following:
 - The Universal Declaration of Human Rights - Article 23: Everyone has the right to work, to free
choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against
unemployment
 - The Australian Government's Immunisation Handbook under Section 2.1.3 Valid Consent, it states
that for consent to be legally valid "It must be given voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure,
coercion or manipulation."
 - The UNESCO statement on Bioethics and Human Rights, Section 1, Article 6 states "Any
preventative diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be carried out with the prior
free and informed consent of the person concerned, based on adequate information. The consent
should, where appropriate, be express and may be withdrawn by the person concerned at any time
and for any reason, without disadvantage and without prejudice"
