Failure of the government to apply cost benefit principles in its response to
Covid-19

Overall the government failed to apply cost benefit principles to the response. For
example, we know that the cost of lockdown policies far outweighed any benefits
       2022). In 2020 many prominent epidemiologists stated that lockdowns would
cause more harm than good but were ignored. In developing Australia’s
Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza, lockdowns were considered and rejected
because they cause more harm than good. The strongly age stratified effect of
Covid-19 meant that school and working aged people were at little risk and should
have continued life as normal. Support should have been provided for the elderly
and vulnerable to mitigate risk only.

PCR testing was also an extravagant waste of money. The PCR testing system cost
the Australian government $3.7 billion up until early 2022. This was a misuse of
PCR tests which do not indicate infection or infectiousness. Confirmatory PCR tests
will deliver positive results in individuals with previous resolved infections, new
infections, and potential re-infections, as well as false positives in people genuinely
not harbouring the virus (around 0.8% of all tests performed). Real concern exists
that many people who are not infectious (and not likely to become infectious) will
receive positive test results, and together with their contacts, will be forced to isolate
unnecessarily. In the context of mass surveillance, this could be a majority of those
who test positive. Using PCR for population screening—even with a lower maximum
Ct value cut off—is not epidemiologically sound.

There was also the damage to peoples health and mental health from
   •       Being confined to their homes in some cases with abusers
   •       not being able to see friends and family
   •       stress of not being able to open their business
   •       being too scared or unable to attend to medical issues
   •       not being able to attend funerals of loved ones
   •       care home residents isolated and neglected
The lockdowns were cruel and unnecessary. While care needed to be taken to
protect the elderly and vulnerable, Covid did not pose a high risk to most of the
population and this was known very early in the pandemic. The very low risk of
respiratory viruses spreading when people are outdoors was also known. People
should have been encouraged to get out in the sunshine and exercise and instead
they were told to stay indoors under threat of arrest and fines.

I know of numerous people whose elective surgery was delayed in most cases for no
good reason. One of these was a lady who had
       Due to long delays in her surgery she is                        Another
was a child whose surgery delay causedwhich will
likely affect her for many years. Both of these cases were in
where hospitals were under no threat of being overwhelmed with covid patients.

That our supposed experts in health instituted such ill informed measures
undermines any authority they have.
With regard to the role of the Commonwealth Government in National cabinet it
should have coordinated a national response with the states. State by state
responses were damaging and disruptive to business and people. People living in
border communities had their schooling, work and personal lives disrupted. Keeping
up with constantly changing directives and requirements was very difficult. I’ve
never seen our country so divided.

Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).

Overall public health messaging was inaccurate and designed to instil fear and so
compliance rather than being informative. In future public health officials should stick
to presenting the facts and allow the public to interpret and apply them.
Misinformation from public health officials undermines community trust and induced
undue fear in most of the public. Examples include pretending asymptomatic spread
was significant, reporting deaths from other causes as “covid deaths” to inflate the
perception of covid-19 as having a far higher mortality rate and pretending young
people were at risk of covid-19. The use of fear to gain compliance likely caused
ongoing mental health issues that will cause more harm than the virus itself.

The vaccinations were also a costly, damaging and divisive. The principle in vaccine
development has been that extreme care is taken to ensure there are no unforeseen
side effects as vaccines are given to otherwise healthy people. This was ignored
with the covid vaccines. The TGA in Australia was negligent in its approval of and
lack of follow up on the use of the vaccines. Emergency use authorisation should
have been provided for those people with high risk of adverse outcomes from Covid
only. There was not justification for authorising the use of an experimental vaccine
on most of the Australian population. As an example the risks of heart injury in
young people were identified early on, yet the vaccines continued to be authorised
and recommended when young people were at extremely low risk from covid. This
has again undermined public trust in the TGA and vaccines generally.

As the TGA did no testing of its own on the vaccines, there should have been follow
up of every person vaccinated early on as a precautionary measure. Once the risks
of myo and pericarditis were identified, the use of vaccines in anyone at low risk
should have been halted.

Better targeting future responses should focus on risk and benefit. Public health
agencies should be scrupulously honest in their messaging. Responses should be
informed by the facts and the government should refrain from indulging in hysteria as
well as inducing hysteria in the public.

The outcome of government actions has in my opinion done far more harm than the
virus itself. We have many people with ongoing mental health issues, children
behind in their education, billions of dollars of debt, inflation and a lack of trust in
public institutions. There is a lot of work to be done to regain trust and a belief that
we have competent people running the country.
