                                                                                        MONASH
        MONASH                                                                          BUSINESS
W University                                                                            SCHOOL



Dear Panel Members,

Re: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

Thank you for the opportunity to respond to this inquiry.

We are three academic health economic researchers, based in the Centre for Health
Economics, Monash Business School, Monash University and the Melbourne Institute:
Applied Economic & Social Research at the University of Melbourne. We have expertise in
the analysis of large and complex datasets to inform health and social policy decisions.

We write to highlight the importance of Data Preparedness in providing near real-time
information to inform policy responses during health emergencies, such as during COVID-
19. This cuts across many of the terms of reference for this inquiry, in particular pertaining
to mechanisms through which governments can target responses to priority populations.
We reflect on lessons learned during the COVID-19 pandemic in terms of Commonwealth
Government )ata Preparedness and provide recommendations for the Commonwealth
Government moving forward.

Data preparedness encompasses existing practices and processes for managing and
leveraging data such as organization, accessibility, and reliability. In a recent review
performed for the Asian evelopment Bank (ADB) we reflect on the importance Data
Preparedness for Pandemics and other Emergencies (please see the attached report). In
this analysis, we reviewed all ADB countries and ranked their Data Preparedness based
on data accessibility, frequency of collection, and linkage. We found that Australia ranked
first of all ADB countries in terms of ata Preparedness and that this provided Australia
with a distinct advantage in the COVID-19 policy response. Pre-existing investment into
data linkage projects such as the Person Level Integrated Data Asset (previously known
as the Multi-Agency Data Integration Project) and associated data governance processes
were highlighted as key contributions to Australia’s Data Preparedness. Specifically, these
assets and processes were crucial in informing, monitoring, and evaluating fiscal and
health policy, including, but not limited to; the COVID vaccine rollout efficacy, and uptake;
additional funding for mental healthcare services; and government welfare payments (e.g.,
JobKeeper, increase in JobSeeker payments) during the pandemic.

The report also highlighted where there was scope for improving Data Preparedness in
Australia. This included transparency in decision-making and more broadly attempting to
facilitate social licensing in data use by providing examples of evidence-based policy. It
was also noted that further bolstering administrative data collections would be useful in the
context of health emergencies (e.g., the incorporation of hospital data into PLIDA). It was
also noted that enhancing knowledge sharing between data custodians, decision makers,
and researchers could facilitate faster policy response during emergencies.

Centre for Health Economics
900 Dandenong Road
Caulfield East VIC 3145
T:|

                                                            _ "aacsb           L—EFMD
                                                                               EQUIS     Amba
www.monash.edu                                              ■   " ACCREDITED             ACCREDITED
ABN 12 377 614 012 CRICOS Provider 00008C
                                                                                       MONASH
        MONASH                                                                         BUSINESS
W University                                                                           SCHOOL


All global pandemics are likely to be different and therefore having insights into not only
where and in what population subgroups issues are emerging but also to rapidly evaluate
whether policies put in pace are achieving their aim is critical.

Based on this analysis we make the following recommendations for the panel to consider

Recommendations

    •   Continue to bolster survey-linked administrative datasets that can track experiences
        and outcomes for Australians in real time.
    •   Ensuring that this data is accessible and already being used by academic and
        government researchers who have specific expertise in data wrangling and causal
        inference. Ensuring expertise and pre-existing statistical code for these assets
        means that, in times of health emergencies, data can be rapidly analysed to inform
        policy and monitor outcomes
    •   Communicate the importance multi-jurisdictional buy-in from data custodians to
        ensure that data assets are complete and provide a holistic whole-of-population
        information. E.g., State/Territory hospital data linkage to ensure that outpatient and
        inpatient care and ED visits can be linked to individual level primary care and
        demographic information.
    •   Foster collaborations and knowledge sharing between decision makers, data
        custodians and academic and government researchers



Best regards,




Dr Johannes Kunz, Dr Karinna Saxby, Professor Dennis Petrie




Centre for Health Economics
900 Dandenong Road
Caulfield East VIC 3145


                                                           _ "aacsb           L—EFMD
                                                                              EQUIS     Amba
www.monash.edu                                             ■   " ACCREDITED             ACCREDITED
ABN 12 377 614 012 CRICOS Provider 00008C
