12th December 2023




To: Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet



Re: SUBMISSIONS AND EVIDENCE TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY




Dear Officer,

                                          SUBMISSION

The following is my personal response to the invitation for submissions regarding the need
for a COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY. I have only recently become aware of this submission,
so my response will be brief and lacking in evidence as a result of limited time given to
respond.

I am making this submission to demand that an inquiry be made into the COVID-19
RESPONSE. It baffles me that I even have to ask for an inquiry to be done into a response to
one of the biggest disaster events that I have witnessed in my life time and it makes me
question the reasons behind all those in opposition to it.

There remain many unanswered questions about how the Australian and State governments
handled the COVID-19 PANDEMIC and in the interest of transparency and accountability I
believe we must conduct an inquiry immediately to prevent future disastrous outcomes
caused by pandemic mismanagement.

The key areas of concern include: lockdowns, mask mandates, border closers, exclusion
zones, faulty PCR testing, vaccine mandates, vaccine injuries, media misinformation and
bullying, censorship, interference of Dr/patient relationship (by APRAH), data sharing and
increased overall death rate post 2021. Australians deserve to know why our pandemic
response handbook was thrown out the window and replaced with the above failed
responses and why the Australian government looked the other way while its people's basic
human rights e.g. privacy, bodily autonomy and other rights were violated by the states and
other institutions. Many of these responses e.g. masks and lockdowns were known to have
dire consequences long before the COVID-19 PANDEMIC arrived in Australia back in 2020.

Please note that this is a DEMAND FOR A ROYAL COMMISION FOR A FULL INVESTIGATION
into the COVID-19 PANDEMIC RESPONSE. It is NOT a request for a PANDEMIC TREATY with
the WHO or any other global organization.



Sincerely,



12th December, 2023
