Some questions long avoided, but increasingly leading to recognition of errors.

Why was public health information not transparent nor accessible to all the public including gov
aligned and non aligned experts ?

Why were (and are) Drs intimidated by AHPRA (on behalf of Gov&profit) & threatened to not
report harms ?

Why did accurate reporting of cases, hospitalisations, deaths etc cease when results went
negative to gov media wishes ?

Why did it take so long to come clean that deaths in the first 2 week period after the shots were
counted as unvaccinated making the pandemic seem deadly ?

Why would government sign up at great expense to an untested novel genetech while allowing
ABC & corporate censorship of public health outcomes/failings of that same untested novel
genetech ?

Why would gov agencies exert censorship powers across the nation, in public and private
capacity for an emerging science of things they did not understand ?

Would thousands of lives have been saved merely by reallowing antibiotics^Isuch as
proposed by              and his alt accounts ?

Why did Gov agencies exert censorship rights and practise upon social media Doctors and
Scientists who both then and now continue to be proven correct ?

                                                              seeand below

Why do all of the following red flags with plenty of warning from an Australian multi-genius prove
truer now than ever despite government being blindly unaware?

Tags below are clues posted by this account person;_____
                                                        I?
Each recognising a public health red flag;
Why did we only censor these, not research them?

Why are we not demanding our best university minds to research, debate, disagree and come
to a clear position on each of these themes?
(These themes are only going to become clearer over time, their truth will increasingly put
authorities including this enquiry and its collation of expert opinions in a hideous light if not
addressed)

Why does the government have only provax advisors complete with their conflicts of interest,
but never seeks out nor allows any contrary scientists nor Doctors to balance the debate ?
(devils advocates were needed to stop stupid self assuredness of dark ages clergy - have we a
similar need in academia and medical health including pandemics for alternate viewpoints?)

If monocultures are inherently unstable and a blight upon biodiversity, whilst biodiversity is
inherently resilient, why does gov and health bureacracy focus upon their ordained solution and
not allow alternate views nor practises ?

Why should gov (public) money be spent on health advertising where the below the radar
purpose is that the media corporations dare not criticise gov policy nor raise health failures for
fear of losing that ad money?

Shouldn't that be called information bribery and not in the interests of public nor public health?

Hasn't this created an unhealthy feedback loop where people believe wrong advertising for
three years because they have not been allowed to hear otherwise? (from top judges down to


Isn't this the tactic and strategy of totalitarian governments, to control the information flow for
their own selfish ends?
Or in this case, military/industrial/pharmaceutical complexes such as Eisenhour tried to warn the
world against 60+ years ago capturing health agencies and media for corporate profit?

Why do we know now, 800 days into the pandemic measures that the FDA knew and noted
there was no proper monitoring of heart and cardiovascular harms and on top of that no follow
up mechanisms to monitor nor assess further harms nor healing successes?
https://www.zerohedqe.com/medical/final-batch-pfizer-documents-released-fda


Now we know the FDA minuted this, shouldn't we begin to actively seek out and monitor harms
to all ages and possible therapies?

Should we throw our health strategies blindly into the arms of the WHO when they have only
offered genetech injections (with obfuscated results analysis) and who are likely to basically
repeat some new or worse rollout with no alternative intelligence feedback loop to oppose the


Thanks for the chance to raise these questions. Time will favour those who truly recognise the
concerns and who begin to find remedy. I do hope your inquiry can be part of this.
