                                                                                              11/12/23

  Request for a royal commission into the management of COVID, especially
                                     regarding the Vaccine.
Dear Prime minister and Cabinet.

Since having my second Pfizer on 11/6/21 my life has not been the same.

12 hours after receiving a vaccine that was unproven, mandatory and sold falsely as safe, effective
and will stop the spread of COVID, I woke having a convulsive seizure and felt like a crazy switch had
been flicked. I now know that was the start of a drug induced psychosis (that 2.5 years later I still
have NOT made a full recovery from) as a result of autoimmune encephalitis. We now know with
more research and lots of adverse reactions that the M RNA vax does cross the blood brain barrier
and cause inflammation and an autoimmune response causing my immune system to attack my brain
as a foreign pathogen. Immediately and the following 3 months I was sweating profusely and my life
spiralled out of control. I have been affected mentally, emotionally, cognitively and behaviourally.
After all 3 of my mandatory vaccines I was barely able to get out of bed the next 10 days. Since
having the choice, I have chosen to not have anymore COVID vaccines. I would have loved to have
had that choice from the start.

No, I didn't call an ambulance for myself at 1 am or go to the Dr the following day or have any time
off work so I don't qualify for the vaccine injury scheme. No one calls themselves an ambulance
while having a seizure or in the days after because you are too confused and still piecing it together
in the weeks to come and the worst of it was yet to come.

It took two years and nearly $30,000 in medical expenses and therapy before I found a Dr who took
my situation seriously and actually listened thanks the the AHPRA threat to Dr's. I now have an
amazing new neurologist and neuropsychoimmunologist treating the condition the last 5 months and
have fortunately seen an improvement.

The only symptoms I didn't have were death, coma and loss of speech. Here's a link so you can read
the symptoms.

https://aealliance.org/patient-support/symptoms/

Prior to the second neurologist setting me on the right path I listened to 33 audiobooks on
psychology, neuroscience, brain injuries, trauma, ADHD, plus others to try to design my own
treatment plan seeing as I had seen the below professionals and not been adequately heard or
helped:

    •       my GP repeatedly and started on antidepressants/anti anxiety
    •       started seeing a psychotherapist/hypnotherapist/cognitive behavioural therapist
    •       psychiatrist
    •       sleep consultant who put me on CBD oil for 13 months
    •       neuropsychologist
    •       another psychotherapist who I did over 200 session of at-home neurofeedback with
    •   Hyperbaric oxygen therapy and incandescent saunas at a brain and mental health clinic in
        manly
    •   I bought an inner balance biofeedback tool to try and stop the panic attacks and anxiety
        recommended by the psychiatrist. It didn't help.
    •       I bought a medical grade redlight therapy helmet which I still use daily.
    •       I ordered supplement from Canada proven to help with psychiatric issues. I still use these.
    •       Two different neurologists.

The two psychotherapists, the owner of where I was doing the hyperbaric oxygen therapy, my second
neurologist and now the neuropsychoimmunologist and the compounding pharmacist have been the
only ones to believe me, help me, care and listen. The most expensive and highly regarded Dr's were
the most dismissive and unhelpful.

I had a fairly sudden 6 kg weight loss. The only positive side effect!

I was guilty of harassment and abuse. The almost comical part of that was with requesting my
medical records from the neuropsychologist for the class action was, he noted I was overly familiar
with him but failed to mention the abuse, harassment and inappropriate behaviour I was there trying
to get help to stop.

My original neurologist said very early I had had an immune inflammation response triggering a
mental health episode. Almost a year later he named it post vaccine encephalopathy and I received
an extension on two years of overdue tax because I didn't have the capacity to get the info to my
accountant to lodge.

My previously stable brain MRI's prior to 2021 are now showing more benign tumours, a
haemorrhage of an existing tumour, an existing tumour tripled in size and I have almost lived on
neurofen the last 2.5 years from repeated headaches and migraines.

I can't believe it took so long to find one very good neurologist who was prepared to really listen and
take the situation seriously. There is a big difference between the first neurologist saying post vaccine
encephalopathy and the second neurologist suggesting autoimmune encephalitis (AE) and that is
that one is a life time brain injury and one is treatable. The symptoms are somewhat similar but AE is
more accurate and I couldn't believe it when I read about it and that no other Dr had suggested it
because for two years I had been rattling off an exact list from the symptom list.

I haven't been officially diagnosed with AE because two years after the event a blood test and a
lumbar puncture are a waste of time. The treatment for it is fortunately helping and the symptoms
are spot on.

I was studying prior to the vax injury and have done none in the last 2.5 years.

After having Astrazeneca in Jan 2022 as my booster I still got covid in March 2022. It didn't stop me
getting covid, getting sick or passing it on to my 80-year-old father with non-hodgkins lymphoma.
They simply don't work. It took 8 weeks to recover from covid and 2.5 years since my second Pfizer I
am still recovering from my vaccine injury from a vaccine I should not have been made to have and
that was supposed to protect me.

I look forward to a future enquiry.

Thank you for reading my submission.
