Hello,

My name is Conor Briggs, I was a 23 year old healthy and extremely fit male before my 2nd Pfizer
covid-19 vaccine. I am now severely disabled and to this day can not walk up more then 10 steps
without feeling like my chest is being compressed by an elephant, I am writing this on behalf of
myself and do not represent any organisation.

Key Points I’d like to made:
- 1 was a perfectly healthy fit young male before my vaccine and could easily run 10KM, now I
can’t walk up more then 10 steps.
- 1 feel evidence and information about Covid-19 and the Covid-19 vaccine were heavily censored
-1 feel pharmaceutical companies have had a roll in worldwide censorship and harmed the
possibility of legitimate debate of the virus and the vaccine.
- 1 believe government officials over stated the impact of the virus and understated the side effects
of the vaccine.


About Me
Before my 2nd and last pfizer covid 19 vaccine in October 2021,1 was a fit and healthy 23 year old
who could run 10 KM easily. Two days after my 2nd covid-19 vaccine I went back to work feeling
well rested, I went to go walk up a small flight of about 20 stairs in an apartment and when I was
about 10 steps up, I noticed I could barely say any more then 5 words without needing a breath and
feeling like someone was strangling my lungs.
So far I have seen 6 cardiologists, lung specialist, several GPs, breathing specialists, many
alternative doctors, taken modem and traditional medicine with little to no change. The tightness
kept getting worse and worse every day for just over a year when it got to the point where I could
barely get out of bed, barely get to sleep because lying down made it feel like an elephant was
sitting on my chest, barely do any walking because it would tighten my chest even more.

The tightness got to the point where I could no longer work, walk or breathe and it felt like I would
never get better. I then tried to hang myself twice to end the pain and lack of help from the medical
system.

This feeling of a tight chest and difficulty breathing is still going on to this day (December 2023). I
have seen over 20 health professionals in varying departments and specialities with little success.
The only thing that has somewhat helped was an osteopath who explained that the vaccine may
cause inflammation around the heart, leading to muscles and cartilage to move to protect the heart,
which also constricts everything else in my chest.




Covid-19 & Vaccine Censorship
Within the first few months of 2020, we were told the virus had a death rate of 3.4% from the WHO
(1), as it turns out, this was a lie.

During the lockdowns, most people were stuck inside, we were all told no one was safe, even
though in the UK, ministers had parties and meetups at least 15 times while telling everyone else to
do as we say, not as we do (2)
We were told anyone at any age could die from the virus, as it turns out, not a single person in 2020
under 30 years old had died from the virus, only after the rollout of the vaccine, young people
started to die “from the virus” (3).

Mainstream media started to label anyone who questioned the vaccine safety, a “conspiracy
theorist”, people started to say they heard the side effects would have been worse then the virus
itself, then of course they get labelled a “conspiracy theorist”.

The Australian health minister was given a document before the pfizer vaccine was approved about
the bio-distribution data of how the vaccine particles travel around the body... The Main stream
media said the vaccine particles just stay in the arm, as it turns out, it travels all around the body and
builds up in important organs of the human body (4).

Pfizer never even conducted a single test on pregnant human females before approving the vaccine,
apparently tests on mice is good enough for the health ministers of Australia to encourage pregnant
human females to take the vaccine, which as it turns out, actually killed some fetuses (4)

The Italian health minister has had some emails revelaed which show he knew from the start of the
vaccine roll out that there were clear dangers with the vaccine, but chose to hide them and keep
parroting the same “safe and effective” line (5)




Sources
(1) https ://www.who. int/director-general/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-
at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19 —3-march-2020

(2) https://smtps.com.au/view/7idM5

(3) https://www.abs.gov.au/articles/covid-19-mortality-australia-deaths-registered-until-30-
september-2023
(4) https://smtps.com.au/view/?id=l#sourceid21

(5) https://www.thaimbc.com/2023/12/12/italian-health-minister-under-investigation-for-murder-
for-concealing-covid- 19-vaccine-deaths/
