Report for the COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I make this submission in the belief that not just scientific data play a role, but
sound thinking and personal experiences.
Therefore, I represent only myself, or the human being. This seems to me the
most important aspect.

One experience is: being detained into hotel quarantine (Melbourne). As we
could read later in the newspapers, this was one of the most dangerous
places at that time. This has many reasons, as the unresponsible staffing, the
lack of proper education, the ignorance of air-conditioning effects etc.
I am not complaining about this; I am pointing towards a knee-jerk reaction
without proper understanding and planning, just following orders and
theories of incapable and one-sided working organisations as the WHO.
I am pointing towards the ability that people in power and fear can, with this
kind of ‘reactiveness’, take human rights from anybody they (the people in
fear) declare as a possible danger. Even more, media outlets were
encouraged to escalate fear and reactiveness to a ‘sanctioned’ mass-hysteria.
Let me give you another example. The hysteria was so great that neighbours
became enemies and suspected each other as dangers. Twice appeared the
police on my doorstep, alarmed by a neighbour. Luckily the police had a good
day, had a feeling for the overreactions of people, did their duty asking and
were happy with the answers. Imagine the police would have had a bad day,
got paid by a quote or whatever, and the outcome could have been
dramatically different. If too many aspects go pear-shaped, results can be
detrimental. In this case it was “just” the public opinion and the psychic
condition of a neighbour being aggravated through it. We can and should do
something against the public hysteria; we cannot heal all the fearful souls
that exist anyhow. A government and a health policy that is based on public
hysteria seems to be a bad idea, and we have to avoid that this happens ever
again.

It was not just hysteria; it was based on “laws” that were applied on doubtful
arguments based on the judgment of a few people in the WHO declaring a
pandemia. Local governments strangely took on these doubtful reasons,
misusing their power, forcing police becoming a power-tool against those
parts of the community who could not follow the anti-human agenda. Surely,
some did so from an egoistic motivation, but many from clear thinking and
some knowledge about the tendencies of some powerful people.

Gag-orders, created against people who spoke out, have to be publicly
criticised and taken back, e.g., the March, 9th, 2021 position statement from
AHPRA (Australian Health Practitioners Regulation Agency) and National
boards:

Any promotion of anti-vaccination statements or health advice which
contradicts the best available scientific evidence or seeks to actively
undermine the national immunisation campaign (including via social media) is
not supported by National Boards and may be in breach of the codes of
conduct and subject to investigation and possible regulatory action.

Unchallenged ‘orthodoxy’ is not real science. I have worked as a nurse and
understand a bit about infections and precautions. But I am as well aware, that
our health system is based on pathology and not health, on blame of
‘agents’, little on tolerance and the ability to balance the organism through
inner work. We have too often the aspect of fighting a bug, and very little the
aspect of supporting the individual with their understanding and the ability to
create balance, to overcome a health challenge. This is not just a problem
relating to COVID or any other future bug (and there are possibly some
coming as an effect of global warming). It is a problem of misconceptions and
misuse of ‘wonder drugs’ like the antibiotics or vaccines. Antibiotics become
outdated when bugs have learned to co-exist with antibiotics (being resistant).
This is a major issue in future infection scenarios. The deception with vaccines
was part of the COVID-game. When a one-sided scientific idea (part of
science) is becoming a power instrument, science loses its “credibility”,
because it is not based on power, but on discourse and development. And the
state of current medicine with its problems of e.g., increased antimicrobial
resistance (AMR), using emergency laws to launch unsafe vaccines, picking
favourable publications and trail designs... is a danger for science, politics and
culture. We need a broader science of health that includes other ways to
see the human being (Aboriginal health, Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Homeopathy, anthroposophical medicine etc.).
I was a registered nurse and stopped working, when the wave of fear gripped
the institutions, and patients under suspicion were treated almost like (some
people might treat) criminals,I understand quite a bit of
infections. I understand, as well, a bit about health and the effects of fear and
discrimination. I did not want to be part of this.
My mother-in-law, always convinced by science, took the COVID-vaccination



 I am affiliated with a nursing home. And it is horrific how all the well-meant (?)
public orders destroy not just personal lives of old people, but as well the joy
of working of the staff and the financial survival of the institutions. Carers, who
just tried to grasp the aged care standards and to respect the wishes of their
aged people, had to deny this basic right because of fear and public orders. It
was a “slap in the face”. Society was divided in those dumb enough to follow
orders and those “egoists who think for themselves”. What an achievement!
As was known for other vaccinations as well (flu), there are limitations: in old
people they don’t work as well as the immune answer is compromised, young
people usually don’t need them because their immune system learns more
from a real infection. These are not general statements. Each person should
be able to decide in best knowledge for themselves.
Politicians and public have been “taken hostage” by people who have no real
regard for health and community. The way how “science” was done, is the
best way to damage the support and interest into scientific work, and the way
how politic heedlessly followed certain propaganda, undermined the trust in
politics more.
On economic side, states paid ransom to pharma cartels; they tried to
alleviate irrational orders to stop working etc. by handouts. Even though the
effort might have helped some to get around the difficult years, the rate of
insolvencies in the neighbourhood increased; Those who got more money
than they could spend, heated then the inflation up. What a mess, just based
on fear, bad science and very specific interests of some people.
I regard the experience of the last four years as a good example of how n o t
to act in an emergency.

Now, it happened. We are easily overwhelmed and probably 'have to' make
some mistakes. Important is that we then really learn from them.

We have to rethink our medical system and medical ‘science’. We cannot
let one view dictate everything, a view that might have brought lots of
interesting knowledge, but when acted on it, it creates just more problems.
We have to revisit our laws and make it difficult to declare emergencies
that have an impact on the whole country or the world. Human rights
have not just to do with the ability to speak out, but to be able to have a
living wage and a home, to make individual meaning and being
respected.

That this does not happen again, we need to find the pathways on which it
could happen and the ideas (ideology) that stands behind it. Proper
education (of the ability to think independently, the ability to formulate
yourself, the ability to listen and understand others) would be important,
but usually this is not a goal for those in power who think they know better...?

Thank you.
Wolfgang Devine
