Submission to the Federal COVID Inquiry
Ray Barnett




The people of this nation need a Royal Commission into the handling of the COVID
pandemic. Not an inquiry aimed at overlooking the disastrous and far-reaching
decisions of state governments. The current proposal is a whitewash, avoiding all
scrutiny of the politicians who destroyed the lives and livelihoods of so many people.

The victims of the unprecedented government overreach need to be heard. State
governments outstripped the worst of totalitarian regimes in robbing citizens of their
human rights. People were prevented from being at the bedside of their dying loved
ones. Australian citizens were shot at by Australian police using rubber bullets! They
were bashed and pepper sprayed in the streets by police simply because they had an
opposing point of view. They were arrested and fined on the flimsiest of pretexts.

In Queensland, citizens were locked out of their states for months on end, rendered
homeless, losing their jobs and their homes, sleeping in cars and in warehouses and
under bridges, because of the secret "health advice" of chief health ministers. Many
thousands were in this situation. Ambulances with critical patients were turned away
at the border, within reach of the major hospitals.

People died. Too many people took their own lives.

Every area of life was smashed by the brutality of the decisions and "health advice'
deemed too sensitive to release for public scrutiny. That advice destroyed lives and
continues to cripple adults, teens, and children with mental health issues. That'
Health advice e' needs to be held up to the scrutiny of a Royal Commission. Let it be
compared with actual science. Let the public know what was deemed too secret to
reveal. Or was it all just smoke and mirrors?

We want the truth I The proposed enquiry represents an horrendous betrayal of the
democratic system and the people' right to scrutinise the actions of those who seek
to govern.

Only a Royal Commission has full subpoena power. Only a Royal Commission is
independent. Only a Royal Commission can ensure that we never, ever recreate the
shock and shame of the pandemic nightmare created by state governments.

Sincerely,

Ray Barnett
