COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

Lisa Simpson

15/12/23



It is difficult to seriously consider a Commonwealth Inquiry, which, not only excludes unilateral
actions by the States that constitute the Commonwealth, but also gave only a week as the
submission period, right before Christmas and New Year, with no prior notice.

I only became aware of the submission period, last night. I am now forced to rush a submission,
rather than having time to more adequately submit.

It almost seems as though the Commonwealth Government is not keen for public input and
may not intend to take submissions seriously.

I will be watching closely, in hope that my submission, along with all others, will be carefully
considered, to restore some of my lost confidence in the Federal Government.




Term of reference: Key health response measures (COVID-19 vaccinations and public health
messaging).

I know people injured by the covid gene-vaccines including sudden onset heart palpitations (32
years of age, following second shot), miscarriage, following first shot. To my knowledge, these
injuries were not reported by doctors to the TGA for investigation.

Due to the pressure put on doctors by APHRA, not to compare or speak negatively about, the
vaccines, many people's symptoms following vaccination, were not investigated for being
linked to the experimental medications.

The Federal Government led the public to believe the gene-vaccines were harmless, would stay
in the injection site, protect us from covid and reduce transmission. None of this was true which
was obvious from the start. The gene-vaccines are a completely new class of medication. They
are very different to conventional vaccines which deliver an exact dose of dead antigen and
take 10 to 15 years to test. They had several components never before used at scale in humans
such as modified mRNA and lipid nanoparticles. It is not possible to measure precisely the dose
because your own cells might produce a lot or a little of the antigen, and for an unknown
amount of time. Vaccinal spikes have been found in the blood six months after injection. The
design invites auto-immune problems and inflammation because it tricks your own cells into
expressing a nonhuman spike protein on the surface. This causes the immune system to attack
your own body. The Pfizer/Moderna synthetic lipid nanoparticle delivery system was designed
to take cancer drugs across the bloodbrain barrier, so of course they didn't just stay in the arm.
Pfizer's own Nonclinical Evaluation Report for Comirnaty, submitted to the TGA in January
2021, shows they went everywhere in the body including the brain, liver, heart, lungs, spleen
and adrenal glands, and concentrated in the ovaries. Despite being high-risk and therefore
needing more safety testing than normal, these products were barely tested at all. Pfizer and
Moderna finished the large-scale trials that were supposed to last two years after just 2 months
                                 . If the mRNA causes an increased rate of cancer or heart
attacks at six months, there's nobody to compare it to and there's no way of knowing. The
Phase III trials for AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna and Janssen were not even designed to test if
the products could interrupt transmission or reduce severe covid symptoms, as noted by BMJ
editor            in October 2020. Pharmacologist ^^^^^^^^ormer chief scientist and
vice-president of allergy and respiratory research at Pfizer, was so alarmed by the poor design
of the BNT162b clinical trials that he petitioned the European Medicines Agency on 1 December
2020 asking them to halt the trials immediately pending review. He said, "If the vaccines are not
properly tested, important public policy decisions regarding its use will be based on misleading
evidence," . He was correct, but labelled an "anti-vaxxer" by powerful individuals responsible
for pushing the vaccines and was never heard from on mainstream media again. The
manufacturing process used to make the Pfizer gene-vaccine given to the public was completely
different to the PCR process used to make the gene-vaccine in the large clinical trials. We got a
product made up in huge vats of antibiotic resistant e.coli bacteria. Pfizer tested this process on
just 250 participants. This process contaminated the products with endotoxins along with
fragments of mRNA and DNA. Pfizer declared Comirnaty "95% effective" in November 2020
because it produced antibodies in the blood. However, these antibodies do not protect you as
they do not stimulate mucosal immunity - and you catch covid through your mucosa, as
Immunology Professor^^^^^^^^explains. The covid gene-vaccines were all given

provisional registration, a category invented in 2018. to allow products to be sold to the public
for up to six years before the safety testing required for full authorisation is finished. The TGA's
safety monitoring system consists of voluntary reporting. If you or your doctor don't tell the
TGA or the drug company that you were injured then they don't know and it's not in the
statistics. Because provisional registration means testing isn't complete, this voluntary
reporting makes up the safety profile of the drug. Doctors were discouraged in March 2021
when the medical boards and AHPRA told them not to criticise the gene vaccines on social
media or face disciplinary action. The public had no idea how to report or even if they could. To
monitor safety, the TGA tells drug companies to scan social media for reports of injuries.
However, the Home Affairs Department and the federal Health Department both told social
media platforms to censor posts by gene-vaccine injured people, as revealed by Freedom of
Information requests. These products have now killed an unknown number of Australians. The
TGA has received 1004 reports of deaths but claims only 14 are "linked to" the gene-vaccines as
of November 2. Experts estimate reports of injury and death are under-reported by up to 100
times and the death toll could be as high as 30,000 and rising. The products are still being
promoted. Australia's excess death rate soared by more than 10 percent since the products
were distributed in 2021, which cannot be explained by covid, as has been exhaustively shown
in the 470-page book Too Many Dead compiled by the Australian Medical Professionals
Association.




The Federal Government coerced the entire population to be vaccinated while falsely claiming
it was not compulsory. They encouraged the states and corporations to mandate it as a
condition of employment, and refused to pass anti discrimination legislation like the 'Covid-19
Vaccination Status (Prevention of Discrimination) Bill 2022 & the Fair Work Amendment
(Prohibiting Covid-19 Vaccine Discrimination) Bill 2023, to prevent vaccine discrimination
Nurses, doctors, bus drivers, journalists, police officers, supermarket workers and almost
everyone else were sacked if they didn't inject.




The federal Government enabled private businesses, including allied health businesses, such as
Radiology practices to put a Covid 19 vaccination policy together, in 2021 and then insist their
employees take part in the trial phase of the experimental vaccines, purchased by the Federal
Government. Businesses did not have to provide any data/other scientific evidence for taking
the jobs of employees who declined taking the experimental vaccines & who provided their
employers with factual evidence for their decision.

If the Federal Government had introduced the previously mentioned Anti discrimination
Legislation, businesses,would not have been enabled to dismiss
employees like me, a Radiographer with 37 years experience.

The evidence I provided to^^^fhas been proven, accurate.^^^|did not provide evidence I
requested of:

   1.   How I as a C-19 vaccine free employee, providing negative PCR results, every 3 days, was
        causing more risk to staff & patients than vaccinated employees who were repying on
      the Federal Governments assertations of "safe & effective
   2. unvaccinated staff across all of^^^|being responsible for infectingstaff &/or
        patients
   3.      the risk assessment on which their C-19 vaccination policy was based.

As I said to^^^|HR, if they had the evidence, they would have been very keen to show it to
me, to reinforce the logic behind their C-19 vaccination Policy & for dismissing me.




There is not enough time for me to add to this submission, due to the very short notice & the
very short submission period provided to the public by the Govenment.

I feel very frustrated by the lack of opportunity to adequately submit & wish that fact to be
noted.




Please seriously consider every submission to this inquiry, knowing that those of us who were
fortunate enough to be made aware of the opportunity to submit, in time to submit, are having
to do so, at the cost of family time, Christmas preparation, under pressure from work
commitments, in our own, very limited time, at such a hectic time of year.
