Thank you for the opportunity to make this submission.

I worked in education for over twenty years.

Regarding the one size fits all policy: A colleague of mine, who already had previously a
debilitating vaccine injury from ten years prior was being bullied and forced into taking the
mRNA injection by their workforce and union representative because “it's what everyone
else is doing”. Fortunately my colleague was able to get a contradiction and had a
supportive head of staff but I was horrified and sickened to see people hold power over
others and feel they had the right to make decisions over another's bodily integrity and well
being.

One of my cousins is the victim of severe reaction to the mRNA injection and was
diagnosed with Pericarditis and is still struggling with the health repercussions of that
medical intervention, which a fit,with a background in personal training
should never have been talked into by their medical practitioner. My cousin was not given
informed consent. Even after the adverse reaction, my cousin had to change doctors more
than once to get a contradiction, finally finding a doctor who said, “the next shot could kill
you”.

Heads of Government used their position to manipulate, segregate and demonise. They
played politics with people's personal lives and meddled with people's private health
decisions. Government decisions overstepped their bounds and adversely effected
peoples physical health, mental health and overall well being. Government has no right
and no business over people's individual bodily autonomy and sovereignty.

Human rights were severely abused.

Dr Kerryn Phelps herself has stated on air that doctors were gagged under threat of de­
registration. Qualified people were silenced, and it’s only in the last year that the vital
information they had is being verified as true. Only one narrative was presented to the
public, a narrative that has proven to be damaging, then, now, and ultimately in the long
run. Vital information and solutions beneficial to the public was censored. For example;
now as a result our country is trillions of dollars in debt, our education system is failing and
people are still picking up the pieces of their lives. The single minded, dogmatic approach
would have done far better to listen to opposing views rather than forge ahead without
listening to criticisn^Pleas^gfei^o the 'Great Barrington Declaration' with many
signatories incl.^B^^H^^HH'Do lockdowns and border closures serve the "greater
good"? A cost-benefit analysis of Australia's reaction to COVID-19' by^^^^^H and the
work of the Australian Medical Professionals Society.

Once again, thank you for this opportunity to make this submission.
