Submission and Evidence to the Covid 19 Response Inquiry
(date of submission: 15 December 2023)

I and my family make this submission to voice our concerns about the government's COVID-19 Inquiry and its
Covid pandemic measures that, in many cases, tipped the scales toward what many Australians experienced
was a near-tyrannical overreach of government authority under the guise of public health.

Firstly, the inquiry's scope is notably very limited, omitting a crucial element of the pandemic response: the
actions taken by state governments, which avoid due accountability of state governments.

The decisions that led to lockdowns, curfews, and vaccine and mask mandates drastically altered our way of
life need to be scrutinised and questioned.

These measures, while intended to protect, have left lasting scars on our society and individual lives. A big
question is that WHY these actions taken unilaterally by state governments are not included in this Inquiry? ?

We urge the government to make a new thorough and unbiased inquiry to correct this oversight, a royal
commission is indeed the right thing to do on this important issue.

OF PARTICULAR CONCERN, an article in The Spectator (linked below) quoted a recent paper with
evidence in support of causality and toxicity of the Covid vaccine... the authors of this research paper, in their
own words:




These researchers previously reported several instances in which anomalous peaks in all-cause mortality
appear to be associated with rapid Covid vaccine-dose rollouts, as well as instances where the start of the
vaccination campaign coincided with a new period of sustained elevated mortality.

These findings have already been demonstrated by:


1. Many detailed autopsy studies (reference provided)

2. Adverse effect monitoring (reference provided)

3. Studies of vaccine-induced pathologies (reference provided)

4. An established causal link to vaccine-induced pathology, by histopathology and immunohistochemical
staining of skin biopsy specimens (reference provided)
                                                                                              Page 1
5. Secondary analysis of serious adverse events reported in placebo-controlled, industry phase III
randomised clinical trials (reference provided)

6.    More than 1,250 peer-reviewed publications about Covid vaccine adverse effects (reference provided)

7. The known vaccine injury compensation programs of states worldwide, which include death resulting from
the Covid vaccines (reference provided)

Rancourt et al are therefore satisfied that the information available extensively demonstrates that Covid
vaccines can cause death and that they did NOT save lives.

This leads the authors to state that adverse-effect monitoring, clinical trial reports, and death-certificate
statistics have greatly underestimated the fatal toxicity of Covid vaccines.

Full article link here:


         https://www.spectator.com.au/2023/ll/excess-mortality-and-covid-vaccination-is-there-a-
         correlation/


It is increasingly difficult to hide the fact that unprecedented number of people have died following the
rollout of this experimental gene therapy that is called vaccine and this situation is too serious for
government and the media to ignore.

The tragic consequences of mandatory vaccination are now all too visible in our society. We personally have
close relatives, family friends and other circles who were vaccine injured or died after vaccination.

As Australians, we ask the question why so many Australians are dying. Please look at the official Australian
data quoted in the video below which is so troubling and deserve investigation and an answer.

https://youtu.be/ll6Q2r5VWLo?si=iBiEoDdvjkhgllHF

Bad Australian official Vaccine Data - Dr John Campbell video

***


Also TWO (2) LINKS ON TOXICITY OF VACCINE INDUCED SPIKE PROTEIN - harmful to human body

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37626783/ (USA government)

https://petermcculloughmd.substack.eom/p/spikeopathy-covid-19-spike-protein




We, as Australian citizens, demand a proper Royal Commission to investigate into;

* Continued Excess All cause Mortality coincided with vaccine rollouts;
                                                                                                   Page 2

*    excessive vaccine procurement and secret contracts with big pharma;

* Pfizer is immune to being prosecuted by vaccine injured (if their vaccine is so safe and effective, why Pfizer
requested this immunity?)

*    vaccine mandates, unscientific dismissal of natural immunity;

* mask mandates and lack of scientific proof of its usefulness, harm especially to children medically and
psychologically.

* unjustified lock downs, compared to Sweden and Florida USA that didn't have the same lock downs.

* misinformation regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection and transmission,

* lack of transparency in vaccine injuries;

* media censorship,

* silencing of doctors,

* the role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors,

* poor treatment of vaccine victims.

Many Australians are disappointed that the media blindly supports an ideologic narrative, rather than to
engage in responsible journalism. Government shows itself being not updated with real world vaccine injury
data or being indifferent to it.

We would expect our Government and media respond to why so many Australians are dying at such
alarming rate, as other highly vaccinated countries like the USA, New Zealand, the UK....are.

Many Australians believe that citizens have been put under constant fearmongering during the last three
years without a balanced approach and measures. Exaggerated modelling (which proved to be wrong many
times in the past) was taken as gospel resulting over-reactions and extreme measures which actually harm
citizens.

We sincerely call for our government to make sure our human rights and freedoms are respected in any
circumstances. Thank You.



                                                                                                   Page 3
