   Sandy Bolton MP
    Member for Noosa



      23 January 2024

      Ms Robyn Kruk AO
      Chair
      Commonwealth Government COVID-19
      Response Inquiry



      Dear Ms Kruk,


      Thankyou forthe opportunity to make a submission to this extremely important inquiry.
      As the State MP forthe Noosa Electorate, I have witnessed the profound impacts of the Covid
      pandemic on our communities, as well the effects of government responses to the ongoing
      physical and mental wellbeing of Queenslanders.
      Having requested repeatedly unsuccessfully forthe Queensland State Government to
      commission an independent review of their response in efforts to identify improvements for any
      future pandemics, I welcomed this much needed Federal Inquiry.
      However, the terms of reference have excluded the unilateral decisions of the state and
      territory governments that played such a central role in the pandemic response. This equates to
      conducting a review of supermarket pricing and excluding the big two supermarkets.
      Nonetheless the parts of the terms of reference relating to governance, health responses and
      support for business do provide a basis to be able to respond to some key issues.
      Firstly, the Noosa Electorate is notthe wealthy area as perceived, with incomes below the
      Queensland average in the 2021 census, dominated by small to medium businesses heavily
      dependent on tourism.
      Throughout the pandemic we saw:
          a) divisions created across our communities and within households based on economic
             capacity and vaccination status
          b) the shocking reality experienced in our aged-care homes with residents isolated for
             months in their last days from visits and physical contact, leading to a decrease in both
             physical and mental wellbeing
          c) casual workers and everyday families who lost their businesses, homes, livelihoods
             and their mental health. This devasting, unequally distributed impact was never
             acknowledged or considered in decision making
          d) Increased domestic and family violence since lock downs came off, with police
             capacities exhausted then, and continues to be
          e) Residents dying alone, or needing to make difficult end of life decisions, without any
             loved one by their side due to border closures and restrictions.




m www.sandybolton.cdm
In the ensuing years since the pandemic ended, where there has never been an examination of
the impacts, nor answers to questions to give much needed ‘closure’, we have seen:
    a) a spiralling decrease in mental health, increasing the demand on already exhausted
       police resources
    b) increased demand on our hospital and health systems, leading to ongoing long wait
       lists, including critically appointments to mental health professionals
    c) divisions in communities that grow, with vitriol and anger on- and off- line that has yet to
       be addressed, which is impacting all realms including mental health
    d) lack of clarity and data around decisions made, leading to ongoing mistrust of
       politicians, governance and governments, providing a ‘breeding ground’ for extremists.
The report “Faultlines - an Independent Review into Australia’s Covid Response”, conducted by
                B provided vital commentary of government’s Covid response and overreach,
yet has not been responded to by the Queensland government.
Some key considerations coming from that report, and from our own experience here in Noosa
were that governments need to be transparent, clear and consistent in their decisions and
communications. The provision of consistent messaging with a forward strategy, requested
data and evidence to support decisions and mandates, and a mandatory review of responses,
recognising the impact on everyday people, would have built trust and surety.
We still have none of the above, nor closure for Queenslanders. This has led to a lack of
confidence, underlying fears and the ‘fall out’ we continue to experience which is
unsustainable in all realms including our police, health and other services.
Further we need the establishment of a broad panel of independent, multidisciplinary experts
and representatives to advise governments alongside the Australian Health Protection Principal
Committee (AHPPC) during health crises to take the onus off Chief Health Officers. This will
reduce political interference and build confidence in health responses.
Government decision making in crisis planning and response would also be significantly
improved if the public service advising decision makers is able to ‘plug into’ and harness the
frontline, on the ground, lived-experience of businesses, unions, the community sector, mental
health experts and local government both urban and throughout rural and regional Queensland.
In addition to the Faultline report, may consideration be given to the report “Let the Sunshine
In” on the Queensland Public Service                                      while not directly
addressing Covid, many of the same issues were identified including a loss of capacity in the
public service, compounded with a culture unwilling to give unfashionable points of views any
consideration, dominated by short term political thinking. The report targeted creating a
cultural shift to openness, with a shared focus on identifying and dealing with the challenges
government faces, through a well-resourced, responsive and highly valued public sector.
Thankyou for your work on this inquiry and if you would like further information, please do not
hesitate to contact me.
Yours sincerely




SANDY BOLTON MP
Member for Noosa
