2021 was the year that my life turned upsidedown. First Scomo stood
up and said that the covid vaccine would not be mandated.
  In fact it never was for politicians and hundreds of workers who were
federal were also never mandated or given options to have an
exemption.
Then at a federal level the consitution was ignored and the states
were told that they could mandate. After nursing for ■ years and
loving my job,
 I found myself having to make a decision between taking the
experimental injection with no long term studies and keeping my job.
As sole carer and __________
financial providei^or^^^^^^^his was heartbreaking.
watched 10 i^^^^out of 100 in                           killed by the covid
shorts and then
 I was expected to take it and risk this happening to me. I voiced the
reason for deaths to Drs but they had been silenced as had I by AHPRA
with warnings
that "It was safe and effective" If we wanted to remain registered.
 I was stood down on no pay for 5 months and then terminated from the
job I loved leaving
                     severely short staffed. We were so short staffed
that in the last fortnight that I was allowed to work^^^^J I
actually worked 12 nights instead
or 9 nights as they were short staffed. When I was stood down, I had
already obtained and read the 68 page document from the TGA with
reported adverse reactions.
Given the threats that Dr's and nurses were given it was amazing to
find that this many reports had been made. Meanwhile the deaths were
all old people and it is common for old
people to die from the flu. Nurses^^^^^^^^^^^id what they
were told to do by the ANMF, by AHPRA and by the Nurses Board of
Australia (who work in AHPRA offices,
are paid by AHPRA and take their dirrections from AHPRA within the
guidelines of the legislation!) had told them to do. They convinced
around 100                    this was safe
and effective and "you don't want to get COVID!" Coercian was
 EVERYWHERE and lies as well.

I joined telegram groups and connected with other nurses in Australia
only to find that they were seeing the same things. It became clear to
me that if I took this that I was risking blood clots,
stroke, bleeding, neurological issues and could even be injured to the
point where I could no longer work. I have been the sole carer for my
^^^^|who has been sick^^^^^l
with no services from the government and even though not taking this
injection would result in me losing my job I could not risk being
injured or killed by it. There would be no one to
 look after^^^^^^^hen . The TV constantly told me it was safe
and effective and that clots etc were rare. After finding another job
in member support and talking to nurses and teachers
all day every day in my job, every person that I spoke to knew someone
who died or was permanently injured from these jabs and sometimes
after only just one.

We constantly got emails from work reassuring us that this was safe
and effective. The TV also told me that it was safe and effective
constantly, "trust the science!”! was no longer allowed
 to test the science. I took the sick leave calls in the mornings at
work and heard nurses calling in with adverse reactions after they
took their injections. One nurse told me that the room
 spun for 3 days and she was bedridden with nausea and vomiting. A
cleaner had so much pain in her arm that she could not move it, many
nurses started calling in sick with migraines
that they had never had before. One nurse got a clot from her knee to
her groin and took a month off sick. 3 Different nurses who were young
rang in sick after having a fall in the shower while getting
ready for work. This NEVER happened before.^^^^^ a lady in her
90’s vomit big blood clots the size of your hand for 5 hours 3 weeks
after the second pfizer. She was palliated and died.
 At the same time the TV andfacility management care
kept telling me that it was safe and effective even for pregnant staff
and as a nurse I had to take 2 (now 3 and the flu shot) if I wanted to
keep working. I was petrified.
Friends who got covid were getting such mild symptoms and recovering
fast that it felt to me like the price I had to pay to keep working
and take my money was to risk my current and future health and
life itself!
   I studied further and found that they had tested this on ferrets
(they all died once in contact with the live virus).

I asked my work place for a risk assessment. Some evidence that this
injection was not as risky as the virus but they said they did not
have to provide this because of the mandates.
I carefully checked the consent form and found that if I signed it
that I was agreeing that I could have unknown side effects as it was a
trial.
Remember that the federal decision to allow the states to mandate caused this.

I could not do it. The risk was too great to my health compared to
the perceived benefit. All my nursing career I took all my vaccines
and also vaccinated^^^^^^ Vaccines were to
prevent us from getting the illness. Suddenly this all changed and we were
told that we could still get it and still pass it on and had to take
to protect others. Trust the science . Then we were told
 you could spread if you had no symptoms. No symptoms means you are
well, not sick! After a year of no vaccines when we had no cases ■
                   suddenly after the vaccines
We started to have a lot of cases and even one death from covid. Brett
Sutton then came out and said that 3 or 4 do not stop you catching it.
We were allowed to choose in the past
if we wanted to risk catching something like the flu but suddenly we
were not allowed to make this choice any more if we wanted to work .

It was clear that even though I was well and rarely sick that I was
not going to have an income while the mandates lasted. Now the policy
remains in Victoria so I still cannot nurse in Victoria unvaccinated.
After working constantly since^^J other than short breaks to have
                I was suddenly told that I was no longer welcome at my
workplace and that my income was zero.

I survived on savings as well as drawing down on my home loan with no
income . I had a granny flat that ^^^^Hhad been renting . I tried
to raise her rent for the first time in 6 1/2 years
 to make ends meet and she stopped talking to me. Refused to pay any
more rent even though we had been subsidising her rent for all this
time while I had work and moved out leaving us
 with a disgusting dirty damaged unit and refused to pay money to fix
it. She said that I should have just taken the injections and kept
working. We are now estranged.

This was a very stressful time for us and particularly^^^^^^^s
he was panicking in case we had to sell our house which was set up for
his mobility^^Hand health
  as I no longer had income. I started to look for a job but most had
vaccine mandates in place. I was fortunate to find a work from home
job but it is not nursing. I may never be able to nurse again.
 I was a loyal nurse who always put the residents and patients first
and going the extra mile and no that is all gone. My wage is a lot
less than it was.

We have had to cut back on medical services that                   as that
help his very difficult life such as massages for pain,        helps
out at the food bank and drops off some fruit
and vegetables to us each week. He also lost his job
^^^^|due to the mandates. Even though he had worked full time from
home for the past 2 years and was a valued member
of staff. He was terminated. From a federal level and above the
right of the individual to think for them selves and to chose what
risks that they wanted to take was stollen!

The Govt's made up rules that everyone was expected to follow due to
risk of fines. Some people were deamed as essential like the
supermarkets, other people were told that even though thier
 small business were essential in supporting their family and
employees, that they were not allowed to open. The statisics if you
looked at it showed that those dying were old and even past the
 average age of death. There were no more deaths than usual although
certainly all those put on ventilators and denied usual treatment for
a chest infection died and died fast. Then remdesivir
 was suddenly the drug of choice and even though many people in the
trial of this had their kidneys shut down and they drowned in liquid,
this was the drug of choice in the killings of those put
on ventilators. Nurses said nothing and followed orders even
convinving them selves that they did all they could . Nurses who
opened thieir eyes and saw the carnage spoke up and lost their jobs
 and their income.

Lies were told in the news papers, politicians lied, Everyone complied
to keep their jobs. Even the first patients from Princess Ruby who
went to Prince Charles hospital were not very sick except for one
who had cardiac surgery prior to the cruise.

I connected with a large group of other people who did not comply with
the mandates also and we supported each other swapping food from our
gardens and sharing things we had if we had extra
 and another person had a need.

My relationship is quite broken with                due to the mandates. I
still see them occasionally but I feel like I am the black sheep of
the family now.             told me to be sensible
and take the injections because the old people needed me. She blamed
me for abandoning the

I was traumatised by the deaths of the 10 (out of 100) ^^^^Hwho
died after taking the vaccine. I suffered guilt that I was not still
working because I knew that the               really needed
me and my skills. We had planned to save for retirement and now we
cannot. I was discarded like a piece of rubbish! While Federal adds
reminded us totally not to discriminate
These "vaccines " have                                               have
strong religious belief that we should not kill for the greater good .

I talked to a journelist for the local paper who told me off the
record that they all knew that long covid was a jab injury but they
were not allowed to write it in the paper or the editor would pull
it and they would lose their job. A registered nurse recently told me
that the hospital is full of strokes and heart attacks and she is not
going to take any more. The director of nursing had suddenly
 died and this nurse told me it was the jabs. I went to a funeral
recently of a 56 year old fit nurse who was off land and loved her
horses. She was in her uniform ready for work. Dead in a chair at
home.
  Another sudden death. She was all boosted up and would regularly
remind people to get their boosters. It killed her. In 36 years of
nursing I can remember only one young person who suddenly died. This
is now COMMON.

It is the job at the FEDERAL level to keep us safe as Australian
people. Not to allow states to go crazy forcing medical
experimentation on its people by allowing mandates to occur at a state
level.

Federal decisions resulted in massive increased suicides as well as
deaths. I refer you to the AMPS book that has been recently released
called TOO MANY DEAD
https://amps.redunion.com.au/too-manv-dead-event
And also the data released from New Zealand where the whistle blower
now faces up to 7 years in prison for DOING THE RIGHT THING!
This statistician,has been arrested by New Zealand
authorities for exposing this data:


examined connections between specific COVID-19 vaccine batches and
mortality rates. What he found was alarming:

Batch ID 1: Total Vaccinated 711, Death Count 152, 21.38% Dead

Batch ID 8: Total Vaccinated 221, Death Count 38, 17.19% Dead

Batch ID 3: Total Vaccinated 310, Death Count 48, 15.48% Dead

Batch ID 4: Total Vaccinated 364, Death Count 37, 10.16% Dead

Batch ID 6: Total Vaccinated 1006, Death Count 101, 10.04% Dead

Batch ID 2: Total Vaccinated 1018, Death Count 98, 9.63% Dead

Batch ID 7: Total Vaccinated 38, Death Count 3, 7.89% Dead

Batch ID 72: Total Vaccinated 5882, Death Count 278, 4.73% Dead

Batch ID 62: Total Vaccinated 18173, Death Count 831,4.57% Dead

Batch ID 71: Total Vaccinated 11019, Death Count 498, 4.52% Dead

The underlying mortality rate in New Zealand should be only 0.75%,
said        So the odds of all these deaths happening by chance is
approximately 100 billion to 1.

"So statistically, what we’re saying is that there is no chance that
this vaccine is not a killer," declared

              responded to the case:

 'The data is legit; that's why they are arresting    He's a hero
for exposing the truth."

Read the full story:

https://viqilantnews.com/post/nz-whistleblower-arrested-for-exposinq-the-truth-heres-what-th
ey-didnt-want-you-to-see
Medicare death data proves the COVID vaccines are killing people. No
more doubts. The debate is over.
http://nswpr.com/?t= 18222

I request a proper Royal Commission for a proper investigation into:
 ■ corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts
 ■ mask mandates
 ■ lock downs
 ■ vaccine mandates
 ' official misinformation
 ■ lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission
 ' media censorship
 ■ vaccine injuries
 ■ silencing of doctors
 ■ the role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors
 ■ the poor treatment of victims.

And restitution needs to be made to those who lost their jobs, were
permanently injured or families of those who died after taking this
NOT so safe and effective medical experimental injection.
