Firstly I'd like to iterate my dismay that this call for submissions has been kept quiet, then closes a week
before Christmas in the busiest time of year. That in itself is a measure of the reluctance of government
to investigate their own ineptitude, malfeasance and mismanagement.

In my hurry to produce something of value to the inquiry, here are some highlights I experienced from
government mismanagement of covid:

I'd already had and recovered from covid illness in mid-February 2020 that I acquired from treating a
sick patient who had returned from overseas, so lockdown was too late and pointless for me as I was
already a pillar of natural immunity, which, as we now have discovered, is the only way.

I found out that BICOM bioresonance therapy could cure covid in about a 30 minute session and the
TGA responded by banning naturopaths and BICOM from advertising. The TGA worked to suppress any
other treatments or immune supportive therapies for covid, because
pharmaceutical companies to provide vaccines. The TGA stopped dentists and doctors from prescribing
ivermectin which previously was allowed. There was never any shortage of ivermectin, it was lies.

 I got caught out without any toilet paper just as the hoarding started - so there I was waiting in a huge
queue at the supermarket at the start of covid, among thousands of others as potential disease vectors,
just to buy toilet paper.

Lockdown happened in March 2020, and then people couldn't access routine dental services, or as
emergency only. So many problems that required routine maintenance then later on became
emergencies and people suffered because they weren't allowed to obtain necessary routine dental care.

Significant loss of income and employment.

Closed beaches, especially in summer, autumn, spring... ridiculous since everyone knows that UV
sunlight exposure is essential for Vitamin D formation in skin, which is essential for immune system
health.

Lockdowns obviously coinciding with school holidays and expiring emergency orders, was obviously
malfeasance to do with maintaining government control.

I found it interesting that rapid antigen tests for covid were available as early as March 2020, and I
wondered at how that was possible for a new disease, when it hasn't been possible for existing diseases.
It seemed a suspiciously planned scamdemic to me.

The over-cycling of PCR tests to produce false positives also needs further investigation.

I found it laughable that PCR testing of sewage was used to identify covid hotspots. I do not believe that
is credible, because there would be all sorts of disease in sewage and there would be cross
contamination.

The rapid antigen tests test positive with tap water, orange juice and other contaminants. So that's a
bad joke.

Having to nominate one person for visitation during covid was ridiculous since I was still seeing many
people daily in the course of providing emergency dental services. Also, that is an invasion of privacy as
to whom I may be having contact with.
I had to take my cat to the vet for an emergency during covid. Having to stand outside in the carpark at
the vet, in cold weather and pouring rain and having a carpark consultation with the vet, rather than
being indoors in a proper clinical environment was utterly ridiculous. This was further discriminated
against when vaccine passports hapoened, so then only the unvaccinated had to stay outside. I was glad




AHPRA sent out a position statement expecting practitioners to be vaccinated and to repeat the health
bureaucracy narrative about these vaccines. They did not highlight that the vaccines were only
provisionally approved and they actively discriminated against practitioners who started reporting
vaccine injuries and their research findings into stillbirths and miscarriages.

Some girls at work went and got vaccines as soon as they were able to because they wanted to travel,
then got locked down anyway, so they couldn't. That was disappointing for them.


                                                                                There was no where for
me to report that I was having an adverse reaction to medication that others had taken, when I was in
contact with them. The mRNA induced spike protein shed by the unfortunate vaccinated, is itself toxic
and can affect others.

I went to hospital after sustaining injury and was made to wear a mask although I was having difficulty
breathing, which was absolutely ridiculous.

I was afraid to go to hospital because I was worried that they were going to assault me by injecting
Covid-19 vaccines without my consent. It was bad enough that I was forced by coercion to do a PCR test
in order to be eligible see a Doctor. That was ridiculous since the results wouldn't be back for 4 days
anyway.

I was made to wear a mask in hospital after recovering from a general anaesthetic which causes
respiratory depression, and breathing difficulties were further exacerbated by wearing a mask.



                                                                                 That was ridiculous.
There was no regard to natural immunity and no measure of natural immunity. This is ridiculous since
natural immunity is the only way, and vaccination does harm to natural immunity because it interferes
with T-cells^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^H. This is what the vaccinated are now having problems with,
causing their relapse and accelerated cancers and mycoplasma pneumonia infections and other
infections. There is some 20% excess deaths globally since vaccine rollout, miscarriages and still births
too. It's not                                                                                     The
longer-term effects will be more so.

The fact that pregnant women were told to go get themselves and their babies vaccinated is a huge red
flag. Do you even know that getting ethics approval for provisionally approved experimental products on
pregnant women and infants is a nightmare. So how come this was all ok? Follow the money, that will
tell the story.

The pharmaceutical contracts for covid vaccines were suppressed from public scrutiny, another red flag.
The TGA allowed all these other experimental mRNA covid vaccines, but suppressed clinical trials for a
real protein vaccine CoVAX from an Australian professor.

Small stores were shut down whilst big stores remained open. That was discriminatory.

Businesses were harassed by covid police checking vaccine passports and mask wearing.

I watched covid police harass and injure a young female protestor who was not breaking any covid
rules, just because she was carrying a sign and wearing an anti-lockdown slogan shirt. That was criminal
assault and abuse of police powers.

I watched video footage of Australian police opening fire on unarmed, non-violent protestors...
Disgraceful. The police can never be trusted again. Those covid fines were unlawful and a revenue
raising venture where governments have become a disgraceful burden to the general population.

I was subjected to vexatious complaints and bullying in my workplace because of my views against
governments imposing experimental medical treatments on the population by coercion and blocking
those who declined from accessing goods, services and employment.

I refused to download the covid tracking app, and this was supposed to be a requirement for all
workplaces to report. Ridiculous since we all have our own timesheets and other workplace records.

I was harassed by a worker at a fish and chips shop because I refused to use the app and said I would
sign in only on a written register. I soundly put her in her place, and then complained about the poor
quality food and service.

I was required to upload covid vaccination status to continue to provide emergency dental services to
public patients on the oral health fee for service scheme, despite there being an exemption for provision
of emergency services. I refused to do that, so all that happened is that I stopped seeing public patients,
so they suffered until they could find someone

My ^^^^^^Hhad a heart attack from a blood clot days after a covid booster.

A close friend of one of my dental assistants had a heart attack within weeks of taking a covid shot.

A friend from dancing has myocarditis and long covid after being vaccinated with Covid-19 vaccines.

Numerous patients reported to me that they had various complications or caught covid after they had
covid shots.

I watched footage of many athletes known to have taken covid vaccines collapsing from heart conditions
in record numbers during games, and many later dying.

I've seen online testimonials from hundreds of thousands of people who have taken Covid-19 vaccines
and been injured by them, or had loved ones who have died suddenly.

Health workers were not mandated for covid shots until over Christmas break 2021 which made respite
impossible, because I spent Christmas day writing an ICAC complaint about Brad Hazzard^^^^l
                                                                         , or else be locked out of society.
The covid vaccines have been reported to DAEN with more vaccine injuries in the first few months of
rollout, than all other vaccines combined since the database started. The covid vaccines failed to
prevent infection and transmission of covid, thus failing to be vaccines. They also did not reduce severity
of infection, they caused it as a vaccine injury. NSW health data also demonstrated that the more
vaccinated were more likely to get covid and die from it, and still Kerry Chant was on tv saying, safe and
effective, it's working...

It caused irreparable harm to people who were vaccinated and to people who weren't vaccinated and
this whole episode has highlighted that governments should not be making health decisions for
individuals with a one size fits all approach, nor discriminating against those of us who actually do know
better!

I was refused service for not wearing a mask in a pub where people were sitting at tables not wearing
masks... more stupidity.

Masks do not stop viruses, they are not rated to stop virus transmission, it even says so on the box. They
do become porous with moisture after 20mins use and are designed to be single use disposable items.

I had patients who came in and told me they'd been wearing the same mask the whole time throughout
the pandemic. Some because they didn't have spare money to pay for masks, some because they didn't
know any better. Wearing a dirty face^^^Jfor months on end is a recipe for aspergillus and
pneumonia. Masks in the hands of untrained public was a disaster. They had no idea of infection control
and littered the environment with them. There were no contaminated waste bins for people to put this
contaminated clinical waste either.

Drivers of vehicles wearing masks is not safe either. Masks cause rebreathing of carbon dioxide waste
and this causes defective cognition and bad decision making skills. This combined with officials being on
the take, is probably why so many bad decisions were made during covid. Masks were a bad decision. A
large danish study showed that masks were useless.

The ice-skating rink I used to attend started discriminating against unvaccinated students and even
unvaccinated parents who didn't even go inside the rink, by asking them to have to come inside and
show their vaccine passports when picking up their kids from skating. That was total nonsense.

For a brief period of time, everyone was allowed back at the rink, gyms and yoga, but then the vaccines
came to market and everything was closed to the unvaccinated, which was discrimination and coercion.

There were vouchers issued for a stimulus plan, but due to vaccine passports, you couldn't use them if
you weren't vaccinated.

There is still a requirement for consideration to positions on health boards that applicants be vaccinated
for Covid-19. This is discriminatory. Especially since these covid vaccines do not work and aren't safe.

Natural real pandemics are over in about 3-4months, this one is propaganda that has dragged out over
3-4years, and the long covid is actually vaccine injury because they weren't vaccinated,


There was complete censorship of the other side of the debate regarding vaccines and treatments. The
very doctors who are under oath to do no harm, were harming patients. Doctors and patients were
harmed by AHPRA who is meant to be an administrative body to register practitioners, not tell them
how to practice. Doctors should not have been restricted and censored from treating their patients and
providing full informed consent which would mean advising of DAEN statistics for experimental^^^H
shots, under threat of being deregistered.

I find it not credible that a vaccine for a supposedly new disease can be produced in one year, when so
many other diseases have no treatments or vaccines. It's a bad joke. The mumps vaccine took 4 years.

Overall, the measures used to 'flatten the curve', 'stay safe', 'stop the spread' etc actually caused more
harm. It was almost as if government actively sought to harm people, especially those who did not
comply. It was utterly ridiculous, terrifying and an abuse of power. Underpinning it all is corruption and
money, because that's nearly always the motive. It was never about a virus or about health. It's been a
total disgrace and very un-Australian.

The government had to hire crisis actors to pretend they had covid in order to promote vaccines... Like
ridiculous.
I watchedwhen^| should have known full
well that the vaccines did not prevent infection or transmission. They were never even tested for
transmission.

Also, the vaccine product that was tested in clinical trials was not what was produced for market, and
there was variation and contamination in different batches.


Many people were and still are displaced by covid discrimination. It's not reparable and recovery is
impossible. The ya—and in the years to follow, there will be ongoing consequences
from

I do like the trolley wipes at the supermarket though,


Recognising that we are breathing all the air that was on the other side of the planet 24hours ago,
there's no stopping anything, it can jump continents. Bushfire ash from Australia landed in South
America, and radioactive waste from Fukishima washed up on USA shores.

We all would have done better to do the following:

Get plenty of sunlight, exercise and go out of toxic enclosed environments and breathe to improve our
immune systems.

Improve hygiene and nutrition.

Protect the elderly and vulnerable.

Not take experimental vaccines.

Not suppress viable treatment.

Not sign pharmaceutical contracts
Not censor and restrict doctors and other health practitioners from providing treatments and updated
advice to patients.

Carry on business as usual but with higher level of social responsibility to self-quarantine only when sick,
not for 3- 4 years of total confusion and mayhem.

Stop funding production

Do not give over pandemic treaty powers to WHO.                                               Especially
since everyone got covid and there's about 20% excess death globally




Never mandate any medical treatment, especially experimental.
