Below are complied a series of links to well documented sources and highly qualified individuals.
Personally, I am greatly dissatisfied with the government, both state and federal, handling of the global
pandemic COVID 19.

I am of the firm belief that the proper protocols for pandemic response were either completely ignored
out of grave ignorance or wilful and deliberate malfeasance.

The disgraceful act of preventing access to a non-mRNA vaccine developed by Vaxine Pty Ltd based at
Flinders University I believe borders on criminal negligence, particularly given that the Chief Health
Officer in South Australia, Ms Nicola Spurrier would have been a colleague of
that same institution.

Given that alternatives to mRNA vaccination were clearly available at the time of the TGA giving
regulatory approval for mRNA "vaccines," a yet hitherto time (ref: Document photo below; Nov 2021)
untried technology, is in my opinion nothing other than gross negligence. The lack of follow up and
ignoring of belated release of Pfizer documentation which highlight gross anomalies in testing and data
extraction is completely mystifying?



Informed consent not followed in Australia.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sR-NYrYyEls



Improper use of PCR testing for detection of COVID 19

https://www.youtube.com/shorts/SmVjtTFmdl8



Aspiration not encouraged or supported by mass vaccination program in Australia.

https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=WuvAtvwP2H4



https://www. youtube.com/watch?v=Fxlug6klmso

Reported excess deaths in Australia after COVID 19 vaccination program. URGENT ENQUIRY
REQUIRED!!




https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S3vY2LyQnlA

Masking requirements were a waste of time and were cause of increased risk of disease.



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TuZ7-J7d0jk

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fcC 2V-5zfU

The damage of the pandemic response, and ineffectiveness of lockdown.
                                                                                                             yaxme
 29lh November 2021

 Martin Hahnheuser
 Campbelltown,
 South Australia

 This letter certifies that Martin Hahnheuser has registered to ‘ake Parl in a Planncd c,inical lrial of a Covid'
 19 vaccine known as Covax-19 or Spikogen developed by Vaxine Ply Ltd.

 This recombinant protein vaccine has been proven to be effective against infection with the SARS-CoV-2
 Delta variant in Phase 3 clinical trials conducted overseas. Based on these results this vaccine has been
 granted emergency use authorization by the Iranian FDA and as part of plans to register the vaccine in
 Australia, Vaxine Pty Ltd is currently arranging a clinic;d trial to assess the impact of varying the interval
 between the two vaccine doses on its effectiveness.

 In order to preserve the integrity of the clinical trial, it is an enrolment criterion that you be Covid-19
 vaccine naive at the time of your entry into the trial. Hence receipt of any other Covid-19 vaccine is a key
 trial exclusion criteria. It is also critical for the scientific integrity of the trial that you agree not to receive
 any other Covid-19 vaccine during the conduct of the trial.

 Under the revised South Australian Emergency Management Vaccination Direction 2021, being a
 participant in a Covid-19 vaccine trial is now an accepted exclusion criterion.
                        ,___ u                                          •___ .   * —
"Different rules apply"to' vaccine mandates in each Statel so ifyou do not live in South Australia you will
 need to check with your State Health Department to find out if being a participant in a Covid-19 vaccine
 Inal is an accepted exclusion criterion for the relevant State mandate.

 The Trial will require you to have two doses of Covax-19/Spikogen vaccine at intervals varying from 3 to
 12 weeks apart depending on which group you are randomized into.

There is no placebo in this trial, so everyone will receive the active Covax-19/Spikogen vaccine.

We will be doing our best to try and organize Trial sites in each State, but at this stage cannot confirm the
time of trial commencement, trial sites or participant eligibility, as this will first necessitate relevant
regulatory approvals to be received.

We will be in touch with more information as soon as we can.

Yours sincerely




Clinical Trials Manager


                                                      Vaxine Pty Ltd •
