Reviewing the
Decision-Making
Processes During
COVID-19
Submission to the COVID-ig
Response Inquiry
                Prepared by the Centre for Social Impact
                                         December, 2023
                                        Dr Andrew Joyce




                                          SWiN     SWINBURNE

                                           BUR    UNIVERSITY OF
                                                  TECHNOLOGY

                                          •NE-
Acknowledgement of Country
In the spirit of reconciliation the Centre for Social Impact acknowledges the Traditional Custodians
of country throughout Australia and their connections to land, sea and community. We pay our
respect to their Elders past and present and extend that respect to all Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander peoples today.


Address for Correspondence
Dr Andrew Joyce
Senior Research Fellow
Centre for Social Impact Swinburne
Faculty of Business & Law
Swinburne University of Technology




Centre for Social Impact
The Centre for Social Impact (CSI) is a collaboration between the Business Schools of four of
Australia's leading universities: UNSW Sydney, The University of Western Australia, Flinders
University and Swinburne University of Technology. Our purpose is to ignite positive, lasting social
change for people and communities through education, research and engagement with not-for-
profits, business, philanthropy and government.


Disclaimer
The opinions in this report reflect the views of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of
the Centre for Social Impact.
Introduction

i was part of a team that recently published a piece on ways to improve decision-making processes
following CQVID-ig:
Joyce, A.,                                                  What Can Public Health
        Administration Learn from the Decision-Making Processes during COVID-ig?
        International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 21(2.),
        https://d0i.0rg/10.3390/ijerph21010004
Our paper outlines some of the decision-making biases that were evident during COVID-19 policy
development and ways these costly biases and decision-making errors could have been avoided.
This submission provides a snapshot of some of the main points from the paper.



Decision-Making Biases During COVID-ig
In the paper we cite research showing a number of decision-making biases and poor decision­
making processes during COVID-19 which were very costly in respect of excessive mortality,
morbidity, and economic cost. These include:
    •          Selective use of evidence to align with prevailing political values.
    •    Advisory committees that all had similar backgrounds ratherthan multidisciplinary which
         encouraged 'group-think'.
    •          Optimism bias where planning was based on best case ratherthan worst case scenarios.
    •    Omission bias where there was a preference to fail through inaction ratherthan deliberate
         action.
    •    Prioritizing actions that were easily visible (treating sickness) ratherthan actions that were
         more difficuIt to visualize such as prevention measures.
    •          Misperception of case growth as linear ratherthan exponential.
Human-decision making has many strengths but COVID-19 exposed some of the ways in which the
mental short cuts we use to make decisions yielded very poor results. What is required in these
situations is strong organisational policies and procedures to ensure there are decision-making
processes in place to counter these biases. It seems that in many instances, decision-making
processes were sub optimal during COVID-19 and this needs to be investigated.


Reviewing Decision-Making Processes

Nobel Prize winner,                          famous for his work on decision-making writes:




 Kahneman, D. Thinking, Fast and Slow; 1st edition.; Penguin Press: London, 2012; ISBN 978-0-14-103357-0,
 p. 417-418.
It needs to be determined if'orderly procedures', checklists, and 'more elaborate exercises'were
used during COVID-ig policy development. It would seem from the research that these types of
processes were absent in many instances.
When referring to 'more elaborate exercises',^^^^^^1 is referring to specific decision-making
activities that can be done within meetings or as a sequence of activities. An example of these is
the pre-mortem technique developed                    This process involves imagining that the
business or project has failed and then coming up with a list of factors to explain this failure. Using
a process of hindsight thinking even if imaginary changes the nature of the way risks are assessed
and was one of the techniques recommended by Klein during the pandemic.
There are many other structured decision-making processesto minimise individual and social
biases which we list in the paper that cover emotional regulation, composition of teams, specific
roles in the decision-making process, and problem framing techniques. It is important to
understand if any of these best practice decision-making processes were used during COVID-ig.


Opportunity for Reform

Decision-making with complex problems will always entail a degree of uncertainty and in these
circumstances, employing the best possible decision-making processes is vital. As we write in the
conclusion of our paper this inquiry provides an opportunity to review if these types of decision­
making processes were used during COVID-ig. If it transpires that structured decision-making
processes were not consistently used for important policy decisions, then recommendations can be
put forward for their implementation in future pandemics and other important public health topics.
For more information about our paper please contact me on the email provided.




XXM CENTRE                                                           SWiN      SWIMBURM:

MNM asocial                                                           BUR. IMVERSm
                                                                     ♦NE-
                                                                            TECHNOLOGY
                                                                                       OF


XXX IMPACT                 UNSW           nautwrancr
                                          WESTERN
                                          AUSTRALIA
                                                       University
