Request for Royal Commission on the roll out of "vaccines" across Australia and the elevated death
rates (WA the highest at 14%)




I recently attended a talk by a heart surgeon from the UK as well as a number of speakers including
one brave young man who was vaccine injured. He told us his story how he reacted violently to the
first "vaccine" and then could not walk by the second one which he was forced to take. Shame on
this government for forcing this on innocent and otherwise healthy individuals!

At this talk we learned that the death rates since "covid" and well and truly after are up by 14% in
Western Australia. This translates to many persons dead. The question is Why? We need to look at
the hard evidence and this includes the rushed roll out of a barely tested new technology "vaccine".
Also how individuals were forced to take this untested "vaccine". You cannot hide these deaths
under the carpet. To this day I recently heard of 2 teenagers dying in their sleep.

Shame on the government for wanting to "move on" from this. We are not moving on until a full
enquiry and Royal Commission into this disaster is undertaken!

Children wearing masks has been banned and considered in the USA as child abuse - it is illegal. Why
is it then in Australia you make my child wear an unhygienic mask when their brains are still growing
and they need oxygen? Masking up our children is child abuse when they are barely affected by
covid.

Countless individuals have heart issues from these vaccines. Must I go on? This is a disgrace and the
individuals who pushed this upon us here in Australia are all retiring with big fat pay cheques. They
need to be held accountable for this disaster.

This disgusting "vaccine" came in bad batches that have caused many, many deaths as seen by the
New Zealand data. This cannot be hidden anymore. We know the truth but we want to see
compensation to those injured and that have been displaced by this (those who chose to opt out...)
many are still struggling as a result having lost their jobs. The government must own up to the evil
they have inflicted upon the Australian population!!! The sooner the better!
