                Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry
                       Closing Date: 15 December 2023

Submission by:


Fifth generation Australian; Grandmother; Business Manager; now Retired.




The manner in which the Australian Government under leadership of Prime Minister Scott Morrison
responded to the global pandemic must be investigated by a full Royal Commission.

As administrators of the Commonwealth, the Australian Government officers clearly demonstrated by
their actions, their response to Covid 19 was undertaken with gross negligence of duty of care across
all spectrums of “good governance”.

A Royal Commission would be required to investigate evidence and testimony relating to the
following:

    1)       The usurping of the Australian Constitution as foundation of the response.
    2) Relentless coercion by State Premiers, Ministers for Health, and Chief Medical Officers using
         extensive media campaigns known to elicit a form of “brainwashing” by saturated repetition.
         The Australian government used mind control tactics. Psychologists have confirmed this
         method.
    3) The role of the state police, and the use of excessive force upon those considered “non-
         compliant”. Any legislation in excess of power has no power at all. The police causing
         harm upon the people (justified by state legislation) is a crime of assault and battery. No law
         or legislation can justify assault and battery because it is a harm upon another.
    4)       Corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts as verified evidence through FOI requests
    5) Mask mandates to reduce transmission forced upon the public and not based in fact. This
         mandate divided communities, caused tons of bio waste hazard. The Australian government
         did not implement “biohazard” bins and disposed of accordingly. The Australian
         Government I believe knew there was no such virus as Covid 19. The alleged virus has never
         been isolated, yet the Australian Government acted in lockstep with global governments
         ignoring the impact on Australians and caused harms.
         The entire executive of the Australian Government stand guilty of misfeasance of office and
         treason.
    6) Mandatory “lock downs” which resulted in many businesses having to close their doors,
         mortgages were stressed, homes were foreclosed, and domestic violence skyrocketed.
    7) Vaccine mandates which ignore the rights of parents as primary caregivers to do what they
         feel is in the best interest of the child. Australian government ignored the fundamental “right


                                                                                              Page 1 of 4
             Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry
                    Closing Date: 15 December 2023
      of the parents”, and where those children were forcibly injected, the usurping of the rights of
      the parents has caused deep trauma and sadness the parents, and unnecessary suffering child.



8) The manner in which hospitals enforced government directives, resulting in family members
      dying alone, mandated treatments known to be harmful despite non consent by the patient,
      and many unnecessary deaths.
9) Government “official” (deliberate) misinformation following in lockstep with global
      governments and the WHO;
10) Government and print and social media collusion delivering information to the public which
      was not based in fact; withholding vital health information to the public from analysts across
      the globe confirming the “experiment” needed to be halted immediately and the reasons why.
      This information continues to be ignored by the government.
11)       Media censorship of verified evidence to the vaccines being “bio-weapons”.
12) Extensive vaccine injuries supported by data, video, social media, written appeals, increased
      hospitalisations, increased deaths... All ignored by the government.
13) Silencing of doctors, scientists and medical educators qualified to speak with authority on the
      subject matter, supporting the need to cease all “vaccination” immediately - all ignored by the
      Australian government.
14) The assumed role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of doctors speaking
      out against “the vaccines” supported by comprehensive data and research. The men and
      women behind AHPRA and ATAGI are complicit^^^^^^^^^^J
15) The lack of “adverse events” protocols and treatment support for doctors and victims. The
      Australian Government knew this was an experimental “vaccine”. The government lied to
      the people that what they were being injected with was a vaccine for Covid 19. The
      Australian Government did not inform the public the “vaccine” was not a vaccine, but a
      concoction of gene altering technology which has “reprogrammed” human beings immune
      system, resulting in “turbo cancers”, massive increase in myocarditis and pericarditis,
      increasing dementia, increasing mental issues, increasing infertility (both male and female),
      increasing the number of miscarriages, ... and the evidential list goes on.
      The government lied - and as a result every individual who has been injected with Pfizer,
      Modema, or Johnson & Johnson “vaccines” has been genetically modified and had their
      immune system compromised. This is a crime against humanity.
16) A Royal commission needs to be established to determine why politicians and judiciary were
      exempted from being vaccinated.
17) The detrimental impact our children’s health and well-being. Where was the Australian
      Government’s “duty of care” children? There was no consideration given to how this alleged


                                                                                           Page 2 of 4
               Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry
                      Closing Date: 15 December 2023
        pandemic would affect them. They are forever changed by the experience. Their developing
        brains have been rewired to accept fear and intimidation.
    18) The detrimental impacts of the social distancing and lockdowns on mental health. Suicides
        skyrocketed. There was no consideration by the Australian Government as the detrimental
        effects of putting the population into lock down where they could not go outside, were
        separated from friends and extended family, limited n their scope of travel, had their health
        compromised by the lack of vitamin D (from sunshine), which in turn expedites depression,
        and subsequently increasing the number of Australians who were subjects of domestic
        violence. Wouldn’t anyone assume a Chief Medical Officer would know that? Wouldn’t
        anyone assume that the Chief Medical Officer would know that there was minimal risk from
        Covid to young children? The Australian Government ignored what could be reasonably
        expected they should know - and yet legislated children had to be vaccinated from 2 years of
        age.
    19) The hardship experienced by frontline and general workers compelled to resign from their
        employment if they chose not to be vaccinated.

The men and women held to be “elected by the people and for the people” have knowingly lied to the
Australian people, and those visiting our nation.


The Australia Government, at the onset of the alleged pandemic, made no moves to immediately halt
incoming travellers who would reasonably be expected to spread any virus.

The manner in which they executed the global “pandemic” evoked widespread criticisms - evident to
those that have knowledge across legal, medical, genetics, microscopy blood analysis , embalmers,
toxicologists, data analysts, et al.. .that the Australian government pandemic response was a ruse
orchestrated in lockstep with WHO, the CDC and Anthony Fauci (et al).

The entire executive of the Australian Government stand guilty of misfeasance and malfeasance of
office, have committed treason on the people, and are required to be dismissed by the Governor­
General of the Commonwealth, and further criminal charges laid.

Only a Royal Commission can verify the events and evidence as proof the Australian
Government, comprised of the individuals in leadership positions are complicit

Only with a Royal commission will the people be able to move beyond the breaking of the
Peoples Trust. The evidence is irrefutable.




                                                                                             Page 3 of 4
Commonwealth Government Covid 19 Response Inquiry
       Closing Date: 15 December 2023




                                                    Page 4 of 4
