 Covid 19 Response Inquiry
 Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet

 12 January 2024

 R.E. Call for submissions to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry

 Dear Sir/Madam,

 As per the requirements for submissions to the Covid-19 response inquiry, I wish to introduce myself
 and address some of the terms of reference, scope, outlined on your website so as we do not have a
 repeat of Australia's poor response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I realise references to any terms of
 refence need to be stated, but I will be focusing more so on questions around the pandemic and
 further investigations required which quite frankly stand out given Australia has been labelled as a
 standout performer when Work, Health & Safety is involved and investigating sources of incidents and
 their responses.

 Firstlvjmy name is                    During the pandemic I was physically separated from my
^^^^|for a continuous period of 12 months from 2020 to 2021 and a further 4 months in late 2021.
 He worked in WA and we reside in NSW. In the pre Covid- 19 era I was preparing to obtain the
 necessary qualifications to become a nurse, as earlier in 2021 I found myself unemployed as my
 manager closed the doors of his business. In               fell pregnant with our first baby. Though the
 latter period of 2021 and 2022 I was subject to discriminative behaviours from the state: Unable to
 attend                                               as I wa^jnvaccinated, nursing employment
 issues for the same reason and when I gave birth in early           my           although not testing
 positive for covid-19 upon entry to the birthing ward was required to leave and not attend again after
 the lapsing of a 4-hour period.

 What kind of sense does this make after testing negative for Covid- 19?

 More points like above will be highlighted in the below paragraphs. I have made some reference to
 the terms of reference and this is highlighted in bold text. The actions of health bureaucrats have been
 nothing short of criminal and have caused more harm than Covid- 19. Their actions weren't only illegal
 and downright dangerous but also disrespectful. Bearing in mind the huge push for mental health
 awareness in the workplace prior to this event, the architects for the vaccine public health orders and
 mandates simply lacked any foresight that they could be attributing to this already deepening crisis.

 We saw throughout the Covid- 19 pandemic vaccinations as a condition of employment. This
 condition in inconsistent with other laws in Australia.

 Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
 key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
 health messaging).

 Vaccine mandates.

 Free and informed consent must be given “voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion and
 manipulation”. Section 2.1.3 Australian Immunisation Handbook.

 How can one obtain a vaccination, that they don't want especially when there is the threat of
 employment termination for refusal? If I approach a medical practitioner and explain my situation the
 vaccination or medical procedure cannot take place as I have not provided my informed consent. If
 the medical practitioner proceeds with the vaccination against my will, then that forms an assault. The
 idea of a vaccination mandate is a complete oxymoron.

 Informed consent. Rogers v Whitaker - 1992 HCA58 - 175 CLR 479;23 NSWLR 600; 109 ALR 625
Vaccine mandates are illegal. The High Court has ruled on this matter.

These vaccines form part of a trial, informed consent must be granted from the patient

In February 2021 the former federal minister for health and aged care the Hon. Greg Hunt stated in an
interview with^^^^^^^Hon Insiders “The world is engaged in the largest clinical trial, the largest
global vaccination trial ever, and we will have an enormous amount of data”.

Informed consent forms the cornerstone of a trial. As stated above in my previous paragraph the
patient must undertake this procedure voluntarily in the absence of undue pressure, coercion and
manipulation.

Was informed consent obtained in all settings? Vaccination clinics, drive through clinics, shopping
centres, pop up clinics etc. It's highly unlikely informed consent was ever obtained.

The Commonwealth Constitution & Covid-19 in the workplace.

The preamble states to the Commonwealth Constitution ‘We, The People’that have the power to
bring the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act into being.

Clause 5 states “This Act and all laws made by the Parliament of the Commonwealth under the
Constitution, shall be binding on the courts, judges and people of every state and every part of the
Commonwealth, not withstanding anything in the laws of any State and the laws of the
Commonwealth shall be in force on all British ships, the Queen’s ships of war excepted, whose first
port of clearance and whose port of destination are in the Commonwealth.”

Section 1 - “The legislative power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in a Federal Parliament,
which consists of a Queen, a Senate and a House of Representatives and which is herein-after called
“The Parliament or The Parliament of the Commonwealth. ”

With the abovementioned Constitutional statements can you please steer me in the direction of the
head of power that enables the Australian Government the ability to delivery mandatory vaccination
policies for the workforces in Australia? As this answer is ‘it doesn't exist', why do we have
inconsistent laws that do not have a valid head of power? The Australian Government is not
mentioned anywhere in the Commonwealth Constitution.

This doesn't just effect Covid-19 policies, but all laws in Australia. These questions must be asked in
this inquiry.

Does a Covid- 19 vaccination qualify as a control measure from an identified hazard in the
workplace?

As an example, I see that the requirement to be vaccinated against Covid- 19 to participate and work
in the Health Care sector in NSW is two doses of a Covid- 19 vaccine. This derives from the Health
Services Act 1997 - sect 116A(1) The Health Secretary may fix the salary, wages and conditions of
employment of staff employed under this Part in so far as they are not fixed by or under any other law.

Post Covid-19 this needs to be investigated as it seems that the Health Secretary not only can
overrule Acts of the state and employment conditions but also anything up to and including the
Commonwealth Constitution.

If we are in a true democratic society where the people elect ministers to represent matters that the
people want to be tabled in Parliament then why is an unelected official able to draft and implement
any decision based on health when they are not the Minister of Health?
Post Covid-19 why are two Covid- 19 injections required for employment in some settings?

The Covid- 19 injections wane over time. These injections do not give you long lasting immunity.
Natural immunity is far superior to the vaccines.

No simple health remedies advised during the pandemic

These simple health methods were not advised during the pandemic:
   •       Boost you vitamin D levels by sun exposure
   •       Eat healthy foods
   •       Exercise

Instead, we were told to:

    •        Stay away from people, including loved ones
    •        Isolation for 14 days if exposed to Covid- 19
    •        Wear masks for long periods, even outside

The origins of the virus: nothing to see here

It has been long said that the virus was discovered in November 2019. I have also heard September
2019. So, when whole world went into lockdowns in March 2020 at a minimum the virus had been
spreading for at least 3 months, unrestricted. Nobody was dying on the streets apart from the
suspicious video that was distributed from Wuhan. So, when the virus apparently arrived on our
doorstep, few questions were asked of its origins. Fast forward 2024 and it's ‘nothing to see here.'

The world was shut down because of this virus. So, I want the truth to be revealed so we do not have
a repeat of this extraordinary event. Impacts that need to be discussed, such as:
    •        Business closures
    •        People separated
    •        So called border closures
    •        Suicide increases
    • Biosecurity control orders (control measures of such orders but without proper due processes
        carried out by the Chief Health Officers) issued to people who are healthy and are not
        labouring under an infectious disease. Including mask wearing, isolation in hotels that were
        not fit for purpose and eventually vaccinations
    •        Housing price increases disproportionate to availability
    •        Displacement of people
    •        Incompetent ministers in our parliament, state and federal, any conflicts of interest

In closing, this experience has so far developed the worst possible outcome from this virus, being no
official inquiry such as a Royal Commission.

My only hope is that Australians and other countries around the world can put an abrupt stop to the
next orchestrated world event and not comply to any government orders.

Yours sincerely,
