Covid Inquiry response

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state and territory
government, national governance mechanisms (National Cabinet, National Co-ordination Mechanism
and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to
Covid 19.

It is indeed easier to look back in hindsight but something that was obviously lacking during the
pandemic was leadership. Its difficult to separate the State government over-reach from this inquiry
scope so therefore there may be some overlap.

When Prime Minister Scott Morrison formed National Cabinet, it almost appeared that he was
abrogating many of the tough decisions to the State Premiers. The national cabinet is not regarded
favourably due to its secrecy and overreach of emergency powers. The national government did not
challenge state border closures or indeed many decisions made by State premiers.

Considering we were as Greg Hunt put it, "engaged in the world's largest ever vaccination rollout and, at
the same time, effectively, clinical trial" the experimental vaccines should never have been mandated.

The government appeared to rely on:-

    •       faulty modelling,
    •       bad advice from the WHO,
    •   be heavily reliant on lockdowns, border closures and an experimental vaccine, as main measures
        to solve the pandemic which have not been successful.
    •       listening to bureaucrats rather than allowing healthy scientific debate
    •       Censuring doctors, and nurses through APHRA therefore effectively negating informed consent
    •   TGA mostly funded by industry and therefore appears compromised in decision making
        particularly in light of ivermectin, and the covid vaccines.

Bodily autonomy (human right) and voluntary consent without coercion (nuremberg code), appear to
have been trampled through this pandemic. Matters pertaining to mandates were fought in the court
system and lost despite the abovementioned rights and has led to huge loss of trust in the court system
particularly with judges. There is also huge distrust in State and Federal government.

The media which parroted the governments messaging is not regarded highly either. If the government
is using this medium to spread a specific message for future pandemics it would be more beneficial to
have some scientific debate and not to promote such fear due to long term effects.

This all needs to be investigated and discussed much further. I'm disappointed that the scope of the
inquiry was limited. I hope that people are held accountable for the human rights violations and injuries
suffered.
