  Future proofing Australia’s unprotected, at risk healthcare workforce now:
                   an investment against future pandemics
My name is Suzanne Jennings, co-founder of the grassroots advocacy group Cleaner Air
Collective1.1 also have had the recent lived experience of four at risk                 needing to
attend three different Victorian hospitals in May, July-August, October-November and late
December 2023. On every occasion, all three hospitals (two Melbourne based and one in Ballarat)
had mask requirements in place; this meant that all staff and visitors and most patients were
masked. Some patients were unable to mask but remained protected by everyone else wearing
masks.

I note that in November 2023 the local Ballarat Courier newspaper reported that an “exponential
increase of Covid hit Ballarat” but there were “no significant outbreaks within Ballarat’s St John of
God hospital” despite the high community transmission2. The hospital had a mask mandate
throughout October and November whenever I visited^^^^^^^^^^B, which clearly protected
patients, staff and visitors alike.

However, I am aware that these Victorian hospital mask requirements are the exception in
Australia, not the rule. The anecdotal experiences I hear from friends in every other state and
territory is uniform regarding the lack of masking in healthcare facilities. This is a serious mistake
with a cascade of multifaceted consequences, not only for vulnerable patients, but for healthcare
workers (HCWs) and the future of the Australian health system. Studies show a significantly
increased risk of COVID-19 infection among frontline HCWs compared to the general community,
and this is especially the case if PPE is inadequate.5

Protecting Australia's healthcare workforce from repeated COVID-19 infections in the workplace is
imperative; accordingly, it is crucial to ensure the use of appropriate airborne PPE, specifically
N95/P2 respirators, across the nation. This is a health standard so vital it should not be left up to
state or territory politicians to set. It is unimaginable that states and territories would have
inconsistent Hand Hygiene standards, and this should also apply for airborne PPE protocols.

In general, our current infection control settings are outdated and inappropriate. It’s well established
that COVID-19, a level-3 biohazard, is airborne as are many other infectious threats. It is time to
take urgent action to set national standards for Mask Hygiene in all hospitals, both in preparation
for ongoing and future airborne pandemics, and to prioritise the ongoing safety and wellbeing of
one of our greatest and most essential assets - our healthcare workforce. Far from being a
“restriction”, it is a vital workplace protection standard. Anything less is a catastrophic failure of
risk assessment.

Additionally, there are many HCWs whose vaccinations have waned, but who are not eligible for an
additional booster. This is another myopic dereliction of protection for a constantly exposed,
essential workforce. Brazilian researchers have found that while reinfection is a major risk factor
for long COVID in HCWs, maintenance of immunity via regular vaccination is highly protective.6
HCWs must be given access to vaccine boosters every six months as a valuable layer of protection
against their dangerous workplace.

The current prevalence of sick leave absences highlights the urgency of safeguarding healthcare
workers. Adequate PPE, such as N95/P2 respirators, provides a frontline defence, reducing the
probability of virus transmission within healthcare settings - as demonstrated in the Ballarat
experience. This not only protects individual workers, but also ensures the continuity of healthcare
services by minimising disruptions due to illness-caused staff shortages. Indeed, St John of God
Hospital Ballarat’s acting chief executive^^^^^^^^^^^^|said at the time that only “a small
number of nursing staff in the oncology department contracted COVID several weeks ago but it did
not disrupt normal operations.”

Labourforce shortages are also exacerbated by healthcare workers becoming chronically ill, and
this, in turn, poses a serious threat to the country's ability to respond to health crises. The risk of
long COVID among healthcare workers underscores the need for stringent protective measures.
Long COVID can result in persistent symptoms affecting physical and mental health, potentially
leading to prolonged sick leave and diminished workforce efficiency.

Around the world, healthcare worker long COVID statistics are significant and worrying. The
World Health Organisation found that more than half (59.3%) of the healthcare workers they
studied in Jordan reported post-COVID-19 syndrome,9 while a US study reported that the impact of
long COVID has already worsened healthcare’s severe workforce shortage: 2% of nurses did not
return to work after developing COVID-19, and about 25% of those filing COVID-related workers
compensation claims for lost time at work were HCWs (more than any other industry).7

Also in the US, a union survey revealed 18% of 2,825 nurses polled nationwide were still reporting
long COVID symptoms after 12 months; as well, 60% took time off to recover, 3% were unable to
return, and 38% reported that long COVID continues to affect their work. A union spokesperson
noted the union’s concern that “every time you are reinfected, it increases the likelihood of more
severe symptoms of long COVID. This is a profession that works with COVID daily. The fact that
we are no longer testing patients puts nurses at more risk”.8

Evidence from the UK is even more concerning, with HCWs (using inadequate or no PPE) seven
times more likely than other workers to have had severe COVID-19 ,and at least 199,000 NHS
workers currently living with long COVID.10 The UK’s Office for National Statistics states: “as a
proportion of the UK population, prevalence of self-reported long COVID was greatest in ... those
working in health care.”11 As well, a British Medical Association survey of doctors revealed almost
one in five respondents were unable to work due to their post-acute Covid ill-health and 77%
believed they were infected in the workplace. Only 11% of respondents had access to an FFP2
respirator at the time they contracted COVID-19.3

Moreover, the cognitive damage associated with COVID-19 infections emphasises the importance
of preventing workplace exposure. In a Canadian study, one third of non-hospitalized healthcare
workers with post-COVID condition reported persistent cognitive impairment, psychological
distress and fatigue, a concerning outcome which could have critical implications for quality
healthcare delivery during and after the pandemic.4 By enforcing N95/P2 respirator requirements,
Australia can shield its healthcare workforce from the potential neurological consequences of the
virus, thereby preserving the mental acuity necessary for timely, complex decision making and safe,
effective patient care.

It is clear and well known that Australia is already experiencing a serious shortage of HCWs.
Projecting into the next three years, Health Workforce Australia has reported an expected shortage
of more than 100,000 nurses and more than 2,700 doctors. Additionally, the Committee for
Economic Development of Australia has predicted that the skills shortage in aged care could reach
110,000 or more in the next decade and well over 400,000 by 2050.17 The lingering effect of the
COVID-19 pandemic - which includes long COVID - is acknowledged as an important factor
affecting the Australian healthcare staffing crisis.13 We cannot afford to continue to lose healthcare
workers to the long-term effects of COVID-19; a significant loss to an essential, skilled and
difficult to replace workforce just as potential new pandemic threats arise would be
catastrophic. We must do all we can to protect the ability of the Australian health system to meet
patient demand and ensure safe care, both now and moving into the future.
Recommendations for sustainable Healthcare Workplace Protection:

   •     Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Healthcare (ACSQHC) to create new
         National Standard for Masked Care, requiring ongoing use of N95/P2 respirators for all
         HCWs in healthcare settings
   •        ACSQHC to create Masked Care is Safer Care education campaign for HCWs
   •        Government provision of fit-tested respirators for all HCWs
   •        Auditing and compliance by ACSQHC, as per existing hand hygiene protocols
   •        Automatic access to vaccine boosters every six months for all frontline HCWs.

The multifaceted repercussions of HCW infections, ranging from long COVID and cognitive
damage to sick leave absences and chronic staff shortages, underscore the urgency of implementing
comprehensive measures to safeguard those on the frontlines. By doing so, Australia not only
preserves the health and well-being of its valued healthcare professionals, but also fortifies a
resilient healthcare system, capable of handling the challenges of the future and the next pandemic.

Thank you for your consideration. I would be very interested to participate in further stakeholder
engagement with you this year.


References

   1.         https://www.cleaneraircollective.com
   2.         https://docs.google.eom/document/d/lqv9slS5qyr6We Axo6QLEil7-¥waXM 8D5uFkFbZt-E/edit
   3.    https://www.bma.org.uk/bma-media-centre/first-maior-survev-of-doctors-with-long-covid-reveals-debilitating-impact-on-
         health-life-and-work-and-wider-implications-for-workforce-and-health-services
   4.         Physical, psychological and cognitive profile of post-COVID condition in healthcare workers, Quebec, Canada | medRxiv
   5.         Risk of COVID-19 among frontline healthcare workers and the general community: a prospective cohort study - PMC
   6.         Risk factors for long COVID among healthcare workers, Brazil, 2020-2022 | medRxiv
   7.         Long COVID Takes Toll on Already Stretched Health Care Workforce
   8.         Long COVID Hits Healthcare Workers
   9.         WHO EMRO | Post-COVID-19 syndrome among healthcare workers in Jordan | Volume 29 issue 4
   10.         https://amp.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/iuF06/uk-healthcare-workers-long-covid-abandoned-losing-jobs
   11.         Long COVID Might be Taking Toll on Health Care Workforce
   12.         How to solve Australia’s health workforce shortage | InSight+
   13.         Australia is registering 5000 new healthcare workers a month. So why is there still a staffing crisis?
