* }
1 :   Australian Government
      The Treasury




Commonwealth Government COVID-19
Response Inquiry

Submission by the Treasury


December 2023
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry




Contents
Economic conditions during the pandemic.............................................................................................. 2
Australia's macroeconomic and fiscal response to the pandemic............................................................... 3
    Learning to live with COVID-19.................................................................................................................. 4

Treasury's role in the pandemic................................................................................................................ 6
Economic monitoring, analysis and advice.................................................................................................... 6
Economic policy development, implementation and evaluation................................................................. 7
    Legislating the economic response............................................................................................................8
    Financing the fiscal response..................................................................................................................... 8
Engagement with stakeholders...................................................................................................................... 8
    Engagement with businesses..................................................................................................................... 8
    Engagement with state and territory governments................................................................................ 9
    Engagement with global community........................................................................................................ 9
Whole of Government coordination and information sharing.................................................................. 10

Attachment A: Additional information and resources............................................................................ 11
Treasury economic support measures.......................................................................................................... 11
Economic and financial regulation changes.... .............................................................................................13
Post-pandemic evaluations and reviews...................................................................................................... 15




treasury.gov.au                                                                                                                                        i
  Summary
  • The COVID-19 pandemic had extraordinary health and economic implications globally and in
     Australia. The scale of the economic and labour market impact was unprecedented in the post
     war era.

  • Australia's economic response was large and consistent with that of other advanced
     economies, providing direct support to households and businesses, as well as economic
     support through the financial sector. From the onset of the pandemic to the 2022-23 March
     Budget, the Australian Government committed $343 billion, 16.6 per cent of GDP, in direct
     economic and health support.

  • The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) lowered its cash rate target by 0.65 percentage points to
     0.1 per cent and undertook large scale asset purchases. Regulatory and administrative actions
     were also taken to ensure that the Australian economy and businesses could continue to
     operate through the challenging circumstances presented by the pandemic.

  • Treasury's role during the crisis was broad, providing forecasts and analysis to government on
     the economic impacts of the pandemic and advising on the overall size and composition of the
     fiscal and broader economic policy response. Treasury also supported the design and
     implementation of many of the key economic support policies, as well as co-ordinating the
     Government's emergency legislative economic response across the Australian Public Service.

  • While Treasury played a significant role helping to manage the effects of the pandemic, its
     contribution was part of a much larger whole-of-government response. Treasury's submission
     should be read in conjunction with the responses provided by other Commonwealth
     departments, regulators and government bodies.




Economic conditions during the pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic had extraordinary health and economic implications globally and in Australia.
It evolved rapidly and was characterised by enormous uncertainty, particularly in the early months of
2020. Early in March 2020, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
Kristalina Georgieva, stated that the biggest challenge presented by the early stage of the pandemic
was handling uncertainty.1

As opposed to regular downturns in the business cycle, the early period of the pandemic presented a
crisis characterised by an unquantifiable and rapidly evolving risk environment. This stemmed from
unknowns around the path of the virus and the extent of its virulence, the need for quarantine, the
structure and functioning of the economy under quarantine, and the nature of shocks to goods,
labour and financial markets.

On 16 March the Deputy Chief Health Officer, Dr Paul Kelly, cited estimates that between 20 and
60 per cent of the population could be infected with COVID-19, with a death rate of 1 per cent,




1 Georgieva (4 March 2020) Joint Press Conference on Covid-19 by IMF Managing Director and World Bank
Group President [press conference].

                                                                                                        2
implying that as many as 150,000 Australians could die under the worst-case scenario.2 Economic
conditions deteriorated in the first quarter of 2020. Behavioural changes were observed around
mobility (less walking, driving and use of public transport) from March 2020.3 Purchasing Managers
Indices (PMI) in major economies fell into sharply contractionary territory reflecting deteriorating
economic conditions. Similarly, stock markets experienced large contractions reflecting the
uncertainty. The ASX200 fell by 7.4 per cent on 12 March 2020, and the United States' S&P500 and
the United Kingdom's FTSE 100 suffered the greatest single-day percentage falls since 1987. By
mid-March 2020, NAB and ANZ measures of business and consumer confidence had fallen to record
lows, consistent with heightened uncertainty in the economic outlook, COVID-19 containment
measures, and changes in behaviour as people sought to minimise the risk of infection.

The pandemic had a significant impact on macroeconomic activity. Real Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) in Australia fell by 6.9 per cent in the June quarter 2020, the largest quarterly fall on
record. Declines in output were larger elsewhere. In the corresponding quarter, GDP declined by
7.9 per cent in Japan, by 7.9 per cent in the United States, by 11.3 per cent in the euro area and by
20.3 per cent in the United Kingdom. Aggregate OECD GDP declined by 10.1 per cent.

The unemployment rate increased from its pre-pandemic level of around 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent
by June 2020 but this only captured part of the labour market impact of the pandemic. Total hours
worked declined by 10.1 per cent in April 2020 and around 1.8 million workers had their hours
reduced, of which 760,000 worked zero hours for economic reasons. Almost 700,000 people left the
labour force completely between March and May 2020.

Australia's macroeconomic and fiscal response to the pandemic
The macroeconomic environment necessitated a robust policy response to underpin confidence in
the economy and to provide support to households, businesses and the financial sector. Managing
the risk of labour scarring was a key priority for policy makers, reflecting the experience of earlier
downturns (for example, in the early 1990s) which saw an extended period of elevated
unemployment and weak labour market outcomes.

The delivery of discretionary fiscal support to the economy was guided by the principles set out in the
Secretary of the Treasury's address to the 2022 Sir Leslie Melville Lecture.4 In particular, policy
support needed to be timely, targeted, temporary and tailored.

The immediate fiscal response was implemented in a series of packages, adapting to the rapidly
evolving health and economic conditions.

• On 12-13 March 2020 the first economic support package was released with $17.6 billion in
  stimulus payments and business support.5

• A week later on 20-22 March 2020 a second economic package was released with $66.1 billion
  support for households and businesses.6

• On 30 March 2020 the third economic package was announced with the JobKeeper Payment
  initially estimated to cost $130 billion.7



2 Kelly (16 March 2020) Deputy Chief Medical Officer's press conference about COVID-19 on 16 March [press
conference],
3 Observed in Apple Mobility trends and toll road use.
4 Kennedy (2022) A tale of two crises: reflections on macroeconomic policy responses to the GFC and the
pandemic [speech, 'The 2022 Sir Leslie Melville Lecture'].
5 Frydenberg (12 March 2020) Economic Stimulus Package [media release],
6 Kennedy (24 March 2021) Opening statement - Economics Legislation Committee.
7 Ibid.

                                                                                                            3
On the monetary side, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) responded to the pandemic by lowering its
cash rate target by 0.65 percentage points to 0.1 per cent, setting a target for the 3-year government
bond yield, purchasing $281 billion government bonds (including from federal, state and territory
governments) and providing long-term low-cost funding to the banking system. It also made use of
forward guidance.

The RBA was not alone in introducing emergency measures. Central banks in advanced economies
employed a wide range of tools to support their economies and financial systems during the
COVID-19 pandemic. For example, the United States Federal Reserve also reduced interest rates to
0-0.25 per cent, offered forward guidance, promised to purchase US$500 billion in Treasury securities
and US$200 billion in government guaranteed mortgage-backed securities. The European Central
Bank retained negative interest rates on deposits, bought €750 billion in private and public sector
securities and offered forward guidance. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand reduced its policy rate to
0.25 per cent, purchased NZ$30 billion of government bonds and offered forward guidance.

The Council of Financial Regulators, as the coordinating body for Australia's main financial regulatory
agencies, worked closely together and with industry stakeholders. They took coordinated actions to
ensure the stability of Australia's financial system, that financial markets continued to operate
effectively, and that credit was available to households and businesses.

Learning to live with COVID-19
Australia's economic recovery from the pandemic was stronger than expected and more rapid than
many other advanced economies, in part reflecting less severe health impacts of the pandemic
compared with other countries.8

Although economic activity contracted and the effects of the pandemic on the economy were large,
Australia outperformed all major advanced economies in 2020.9 By the March quarter 2021, the level
of economic activity in Australia exceeded levels prior to the pandemic and the economy grew
strongly in 2020-21 despite the impact of the Delta lockdown in NSW, Victoria and the ACT.10 Most
major advanced economies, including the United Kingdom, Canada and France, took until the
December quarter of 2021 to reach pre-pandemic levels of activity.

After the initial lockdowns, the policy focus shifted to managing the medium- and long-term impacts
of the pandemic. In addition to the crisis response measures announced in March 2020, the recovery
was supported by a range of measures in the 2020-21 Budget. The economic support package
included JobTrainer, which provided free or low-fee training places, bringing forward Stage 2 of the
Personal Income Tax Plan and fast tracking infrastructure projects.11 There was also additional
government support for essential services, particularly health, aged care and disability services.

Health policies centred on managing new strains and waves of COVID-19 and supporting the vaccine
rollout. Additional targeted support was provided to individuals and businesses in areas impacted by
subsequent waves of the virus in partnership with the states and territories. This included the
Temporary COVID-19 Disaster Payment and the Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment. The
Commonwealth also entered cost-sharing arrangements to help deliver business support provided by
the states and territories.

The 2021-22 Budget also included a range of supports to continue supporting the recovery. The
economic supports including retaining the low- and middle-income tax offset, extending tax
incentives for business investment and provided direct support to the sectors most affected by the


8 IMF (27 July 2021) Australia's Response to COVID-19.
9 Commonwealth of Australia (2021) 2021-22 Budget, Budget Strategy and Outlook, Budget Paper No. 1.
10ABS(2June2021) International economic comparisons after a year of the pandemic.
11 See Commonwealth of Australia (2020) 2020-21 Budget, Budget overview for a larger summary of
2020-21 Budget's economic supports.

                                                                                                          4
pandemic, such as aviation and tourism.12 There was also a range of new health measures including
extra funding to support the vaccine rollout.13

Overall government spending on the response support and recovery was significant. As at the
2022-23 March Budget, the Commonwealth had committed $343 billion, 16.6 per cent of GDP, in
direct economic and health support since the onset of the pandemic.14 As at 24 March 2022, states
and territories had announced approximately $234 billion, 12 per cent of GDP, in direct economic and
health support since the beginning of 2020.15

The scale of Australia's fiscal response measures was comparable to other advanced economies.
According to IMF estimates at October 2021, Australia's discretionary fiscal response measures to the
initial impacts of the pandemic - including both Commonwealth and state responses - were
estimated to be similar to the size of responses in countries like Canada, Germany, Japan, the United
Kingdom and New Zealand, and less than the United States.16

Australia's fiscal response reflected the revised two-phase Economic and Fiscal Strategy outlined in
the 2020-21 Budget.17 The first phase focused on supporting the economic recovery, recognising that
economic growth and job creation was essential to repairing the budget and ensuring a sustainable
budget position over time. Once the unemployment rate was firmly below 6 per cent, the strategy
moved to the second phase, focusing on stabilising and then reducing debt as a share of the economy
over the medium-term.

The Australian Government recorded a surplus of $22.1 billion in the 2022-23 fiscal year, or around
0.9 per cent of GDP.18 This outcome reflects the Government's economic and fiscal strategy which
includes directing the majority of revenue improvements to the budget and enhancing the efficiency,
quality and sustainability of spending.19 Australia returned to surplus ahead of all major advanced
economies.20

Australia is still managing the ongoing impacts of the pandemic. Waves of COVID-19 outbreaks are
still impacting the community, requiring an ongoing health response. Following the end of the
lockdown period the unemployment rate fell to near record lows and the labour market has remained
tight since. Supply chain bottlenecks from the pandemic impacted the economy and created
inflationary pressures, but are now easing. Population shocks from the closing and reopening of


12 See Commonwealth of Australia (2021) 2021-22 Budget, Budget overview for a larger summary of
2021-22 Budget's economic supports.
13 See Commonwealth of Australia (2021) 2021-22 Budget, Supporting Australians through COVID-19 for a larger
summary of 2021-22 Budget's health response.
14 This is comprised of $314 billion in direct economic support and $29 billion in direct health support since the
onset of the pandemic. See Commonwealth of Australia (2022) Budget 2022-23 (March), Keeping Australians
safe for further details.
15 State and territory spending estimates are largely based on the total value of new policy decisions, including
for revenue, expenses and capital investment, since states' and territories' 2019-20 mid-year reviews (which
capture the impact of policy decisions in the period from late 2019 until 2023-24). This approach uses
information from state and territory 2020-21 budgets and budget updates where possible. The estimates are
total values and do not account for savings, offsets or reprioritisations. Per cent of GDP is based on the 2019-20
actual.
16 IMF (October 2021) Fiscal Monitor Database of Country Fiscal Measures in Response to the COVID-19
    ■ .    c.
17 For more discussion on the revised Fiscal Strategy see Budget Statement 3: Fiscal Strategy and Outlook in
Commonwealth of Australia (2020) Budget 2020-21, Budget Strategy and Outlook, Budget Paper No. 1.
18 Commonwealth of Australia (September 2023), Final Budget Outcome 2022-23.
19 For further discussion on the Fiscal Strategy see Commonwealth of Australia (2023) Budget 2023-24, Budget
Strategy and Outlook, Budget Paper No. 1.
20 See OECD (July 2022) The post-COVID-19 rise in labour shortages for a further discussion on structural
changes in the labour market.

                                                                                                                 5
international and state borders are still impacting the housing market and infrastructure plans. These
ongoing impacts from the pandemic are going to take time and a concerted effort to manage.


Treasury's role in the pandemic
Treasury was a key source of advice to the Government and coordinated a suite of policies in
response to the COVID-19 pandemic, spanning the breadth of Treasury's policy responsibilities.
Economic monitoring, analysis and advice
Treasury increased its economic analysis, advice and reporting to Government, providing frequent
updates on the global and domestic economic impact of COVID-19 and the associated policy
response. This analysis was used to inform the Government's policy and health responses, and was
used by the Treasurer to update the community on economic conditions. It was also incorporated
into Treasury's economic outlook, which was published in Budget documents across 2020 and 2021,
detailing revised economic forecasts.21 Through the pandemic period, Treasury took the unusual step
of publishing economic forecasts both with and without fiscal support policy.22

The unique nature of the COVID-19 shock and associated policy response required Treasury to adapt
its macroeconomic analysis frameworks. Traditionally, Treasury has principally forecast the economy
based on how households and businesses spend their money (the expenditure measure of GDP). In
response to industry-based shutdowns and school closures, which directly impacted the supply side of
the economy, Treasury established new frameworks for analysing economic impacts through an
industry and labour market lens (production base). Treasury established the new Industry Analysis
Unit (within Macroeconomic Conditions Division), tasked with liaising with health experts to develop
up-to-date health assumptions, before translating those assumptions to industry-based impacts on
the supply side of the economy. Additionally, Treasury expedited the utilisation of the Treasury
Macroeconometric Model of Australia, which was developed over 2018 and 2019.23 This
industry-based modelling framework was used to inform the macroeconomic forecasts.

Treasury estimates of the economic impact of the Government's discretionary fiscal support
incorporated both the direct effects of individual measures and indirect effects of the broader
packages on household and business confidence, business solvency and liquidity, and labour market
attachment.

Treasury engaged in an innovative partnership with the Doherty Institute to provide integrated health
and economic advice to government. Doherty modelled a range of scenarios in July 2021 that
considered the likely transmission of the COVID-19 Delta variant at different national vaccination
rates under varying restriction regimes, while Treasury analysed the direct economic costs of the
modelled scenarios. This culminated in the Economic Impact Analysis of the National Plan to
Transition to Australia's National COVID-19 Response, agreed by National Cabinet and all states and
territories on 6 August 2021.24

To support timely and granular analysis of rapidly changing conditions during the pandemic, Treasury
secured access to new data sources including Single Touch Payroll administrative data,
unemployment benefit recipient microaggregates, and credit card spending data from major banks.
Treasury also worked with the ABS to integrate a number of high frequency labour market data



21See2 Z0-2 and 2021-22 Budgets, 2C           . and 2021-22 MYEFO, 2020 JEFU, and 2021 Intergenerational
Report.
22 For example, see Commonwealth of Australia (2020) 2020-21 Budget, Jobmaker-Creating jobs and
rebuilding our economy.
23 Bullen et. al. (3 September 2021) The Treasury Macroeconometric Model of Australia: Modelling Approach.
24 Treasury (6 August 2021) Economic Impact Analysis of the National Plan to Transition to Australia's National
COVID-19 Response.

                                                                                                                  6
sources into the Labour Market Tracker project. Treasury also expanded its capacity to work with
microdata by expanding specialist teams within Macroeconomic Analysis and Policy Division.

Treasury worked closely with regulators to monitor and address issues that arose across the financial
system and more broadly. The engagement with regulators, including through regular reporting,
enabled Treasury to understand the direct and real time impacts of COVID-19 on the operations of
companies, capital markets and financial institutions. Treasury was able to provide advice to
Government on policy responses supporting the smooth operation of these economic functions.
Treasury also increased its engagement with the RBA on forecasts and economic conditions during
this period.

Treasury's international posts and International Division provided updates to relevant ministers and
their departments on economic and financial market developments, and policy responses by
governments in North America, Europe and Asia. The updates reported on actions by central banks to
maintain liquidity in the financial system, effects of COVID-19 restrictions and supply chain
constraints, government policy responses to deliver support for businesses and workers, and effects
of the pandemic on key economic indicators. Reports were sent almost daily throughout 2020 before
gradually transitioning to less frequent reporting as the pandemic evolved.

Economic policy development, implementation and evaluation
Treasury led the design and implementation of many COVID-19 pandemic response measures,
including JobKeeper, the HomeBuilder program, COVID-19 early release of superannuation, cashflow
boost, temporary full expensing and loss carry-back for businesses. It also developed and
implemented a range of regulatory policies to facilitate relief and insolvency system changes. A
summary of COVID-related policies led by Treasury is provided in Attachment A.

Treasury led the design and legislation of the JobKeeper Payment; the administration of JobKeeper
was led by the Australian Tax Office (ATO). The JobKeeper Payment was a wage subsidy and income
support program delivered in the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. With an initial estimated cost
of $130 billion over 6 months, JobKeeper was one of the largest labour market policy interventions in
Australia's history. Once announced, it became a key pillar and the single largest component of the
fiscal stimulus package during the pandemic. JobKeeper was extended twice, each time by 3 months.
Modifications to policy design, including changes to eligibility criteria and the payment rate and
structure, were incorporated into the second ('extension') phase. JobKeeper supported around
4 million employees - almost one third of pre-pandemic employment — and is estimated to have
prevented the direct loss of between 300,000 to 800,000 jobs.25

The Coronavirus Coordination Team, along with the Strategic Engagement and COVID-19 Recovery
Branch, provided advice on issues such as the definition of essential workers, supply chain challenges,
and the economic impact of public health measures to support the COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy
and the National Re-opening Roadmap.

Treasury also established a Markets Taskforce to assess the availability of capital for the ongoing
operations of strategically important businesses and provide advice to Government, including
monitoring the Virgin Australia voluntary administration.

A number of evaluations have been conducted in relation to COVID-19 policies developed or
implemented by Treasury, including the recent Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper payment.
More detail is contained in Attachment A.




25 Treasury (28 September 2023) Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment.

                                                                                                        7
Legislating the economic response
Treasury coordinated two legislative packages containing a total of 28 measures in 10 Bills across
9 portfolios to implement the Government's initial response to the economic impact of COVID-19.

The first legislative package, the Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus Bill 2020 (and
8 supporting Bills) covered the first two economic support packages. These included measures to
support households and businesses including boosting cash flow for employers; stimulus payments to
households to support growth; additional support for income support recipients; and assistance for
severely affected regions. The first package was introduced and passed both Houses of Parliament on
23 March 2020 and received Royal Assent on 24 March 2020.

The second legislative package, the Coronavirus Economic Response Package Omnibus (Measures
No. 2) Bill 2020 and Coronavirus Economic Response Package (Payments and Benefits) Bill 2020, was
centred on measures to establish the framework to implement and administer the JobKeeper
Payment and related arrangements. The second package was introduced and passed both Houses of
Parliament on 8 April 2020 and received Royal Assent on 9 April 2020.

Financing the fiscal response
The Australian Office of Financial Management (AOFM) was tasked with increasing the funds available
to the Government through an increased issuance of Australian Government Securities (AGS). From
February 2020 to October 2023, total AGS on issue increased from $571 billion to $910 billion. On
7 October 2020 the Treasurer provided a direction increasing the maximum face value of AGS on
issue to $1,200 billion.

During March 2020 the AOFM had limited ability to raise funding due to dislocations in markets, while
government funding requirements were materially increasing. The RBA intervention into the Treasury
Bond market announced in late March was successful in clearing the congestion and allowed the
AOFM to substantially increase issuance. In 2019-20 the AOFM issued a record $128 billion of
Treasury Bonds of which $86 billion were issued in the last 3 months, and increased Treasury Notes
on issue by $56 billion. Annual Treasury Bond issuance peaked in 2020-21 at $207 billion. To meet the
record funding tasks the AOFM was able to scale up both the regularity and size of existing issuance
processes. This included establishing 6 new bond lines via syndication in 2020, raising around
$110 billion dollars and continued regular tenders issuing at a peak rate of around
$10 billion per week (into existing bond lines and short-term Treasury Notes).26

Engagement with stakeholders
During the pandemic, Treasury increased its engagement with external stakeholders. In addition to
working with the Doherty Institute, Treasury increased its engagement with Australian businesses,
state and territory governments and the global community.

Engagement with businesses
A dedicated team, the Coronavirus Business Liaison Unit, was established in Treasury to engage
directly with peak business groups on systemic issues relating to COVID-19. This ensured that issues
facing businesses were being addressed by Government. The Coronavirus Business Liaison Unit also
acted as a source of information for business groups on the Government's response to COVID-19,
which allowed information to be disseminated quickly and effectively across the business community.

The Council of Financial Regulators worked closely together and with industry stakeholders, taking
coordinated actions to ensure the stability of Australia's financial system, that financial markets
continued to operate effectively, and that credit was available to households and businesses.



26 Please see the , .   I   e for more information on the AOFM operations.

                                                                                                      8
Changes to economic and financial regulation were implemented to allow business to continue to
function effectively while social distancing measures were in effect and uncertainty was heightened
and to safeguard the Australian economy through the COVID-19 crisis. This included changes to
support market functions, including changes to corporate disclosure regulations, insolvency laws and
foreign investment screening.27

Engagement with state and territory governments
Treasury supported a significant boost in the engagement between Commonwealth, state and
territory Treasurers and treasuries by convening more Council on Federal Financial Relations (CFFR)
meetings. These additional meetings meant Treasurers and treasuries were able to regularly share
insights and work collaboratively as the COVID-19 pandemic unfolded. CFFR monitored economic
impacts of the pandemic, developed business support programs and later focused on economic
growth and job creation. CFFR convened 23 times in 2020 and 8 times in 2021, a marked increase
from the previous 2 or 3 meetings each year prior to the pandemic.

Treasury also provided financial assistance to states and territories to support the delivery of
initiatives in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including funding for the additional costs incurred
by state and territory health services under the National Partnership on COVID-19 Response.28

Treasury also supported state- and territory-based responses through the provision of
Commonwealth held data needed to support the effective administration of those state and territory
policies.

Treasury provided National Cabinet with a range of data and analysis regarding the economic impacts
of industry restrictions to support their deliberations around pandemic response, as well as regular
updates from the Secretary regarding the economic situation and outlook.

Engagement with global community
Australia was a strong advocate for global action. Treasury actively engaged in the development of
G20 and the international financial institutions' responses to the global economic challenges of
COVID-19, ensuring that vulnerable countries had the fiscal space, and support to address the health
and fiscal impacts of COVID-19. In particular, Australia strongly advocated for a robust and rapid
response to the crisis from the IMF including through the provision of liquidity support to help ensure
the stability of the global financial system.

Australia is a shareholder in the IMF and the multilateral development banks, where we supported
crisis responses to the pandemic. The IMF rapidly increased its lending and expanded access limits,
providing over US$120 billion to 90 countries. The World Bank also delivered an unprecedented
US$204 billion in financial support to mitigate the pandemic's health, social and economic impacts. In
April 2020, Australia committed an initial SDR 500 million (A$1.02 billion) to the IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Trust to support Low Income Countries. Four Pacific Island countries accessed
this funding during the pandemic. Australia supported the IMF’s largest-ever allocation of special
drawing rights in August 2021, which injected US$650 billion of liquidity into countries to help aid
recovery from COVID-19.

Through the G20, Australia advocated for the Debt Service Suspension Initiative, providing
US$12.9 billion in liquidity through deferred debt repayments to vulnerable countries to manage the
crisis, and for affordable access to COVID-19 vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics for all countries.
The Treasury and the Department of Health and Aged Care led Australia's participation in the



27 For example, see Frydenberg (5 May 2020) Making it easier for business to operate during Covid-19 [media
release] and Frydenberg (25 May 2020) Temporary changes to continuous disclosure provisions for companies
and officers [media release],
28 For more information see Federal Financial Relations (April 2021) National Partnership on Covid-19 Response.

                                                                                                              9
G20 Joint Finance-Health Task Force, which was established to enhance dialogue and global
cooperation on pandemic issues - including encouraging effective stewardship of resources for
pandemic prevention, preparedness and response (PPR). In 2022, Australia became a founding
member of a new global Financial Intermediary Fund (Pandemic Fund), committing A$50 million to
improve future pandemic PPR.

From November 2020, Treasury provided several budget support loans to the Republic of Indonesia
and the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) to assist with COVID-19 response and
recovery. The A$1.5 billion agreement with Indonesia was part of a multilateral action led by the
Asian Development Bank and included the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the Japan
International Cooperation Agency, and the German state-owned development bank. The funds were
used to support Indonesia's COVID-19 response, including social protection initiatives and health
system development.

Three successive loans to PNG in 2020, 2021 and 2022 totalling almost A$2 billion have helped
address the country's deteriorating fiscal position caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. They have
supported reform actions under an IMF Staff-Monitored Program, helped respond to the ongoing
health and economic impacts of COVID-19 and assisted PNG to meet its 2022 Budget financing
shortfall, including delivery of multilateral development programs.

Whole of Government coordination and information sharing
Treasury managed a comprehensive advertising campaign informing Australians of economic support,
the Government's plan for economic recovery, and building business and consumer confidence to
reopen. The campaign required whole-of-government coordination to ensure consistent, timely
messaging, as well as ongoing creative development, monitoring, translations and research.

The Treasury website became the central point of entry for the public on COVID-19 economic
response measures, including JobKeeper, JobSeeker and the HomeBuilder program. The Treasury
website homepage was rebuilt to allow a clear path to information, including regularly updated fact
sheets and links to the relevant implementing departments. Treasury materials were shared with
Australia.gov.au and Services Australia to ensure consistent and clear messaging for the public.

Treasury played an active role in information sharing and collaboration across many Government
departments. Communication professionals from key departments (e.g. Prime Minister and Cabinet,
Australian Tax Office, Services Australia, Fair Work Ombudsman, Department of Health and Aged
Care, Treasury) met regularly to discuss upcoming communications activities, priorities and
coordination across channels.




                                                                                                      10
Attachment A: Additional information and resources
Treasury economic support measures
Treasury played a key role advising on design of economic policies during the pandemic to support
households, businesses and the financial sector. It was also responsible for legislating, implementing
and/or delivering a range of these response measures, including:

• Boosting Cash Flow for Employers which provided a tax-free cash flow boost of between $20,000
  and $100,000 to eligible businesses, delivered though credits in the activity statement system.

• Bringing forward the Second Stage of the Personal Income Tax Plan by two years from 1 July 2022
  to 1 July 2020. The tax cuts:

   -     Increased the top threshold of the 19 per cent tax bracket from $37,000 to $45,000;

   -     Increased the low-income tax offset from $445 to $700; and

   -     Increased the top threshold of the 32.5 per cent tax bracket from $90,000 to $120,000.

• Business Support Payments, jointly funded with the states, provided financial support to businesses
  adversely affected by lockdowns and border restrictions. Further support was provided to
  businesses in the tourism and hospitality sectors by co-funding targeted state grants.

• Counting on U was a free accredited professional development program that built the mental
  health literacy of trusted business advisers to better support small business owners in times of
  distress.

• Ensuring tax deductibility of COVID-19 test expenses for individuals incurring these expenses to
  attend a place of work, and ensuring businesses don't incur fringe benefits tax (FBT) where
  COVID-19 tests are provided to employees for this purpose.

• HomeBuilder provided eligible owner-occupiers (including first home buyers) with a tax-free grant
  of $25,000 to build a new home or rebuild an existing home.

• Increased availability of equity finance for small to medium enterprises (SMEs) by co-investing with
  financial institutions to establish an Australian Business Growth Fund.

• JobKeeper provided fortnightly wage subsidies to eligible businesses and employees.

• JobMaker Hiring Credit provided wage subsidies for businesses to employ additional young job
  seekers aged 16-35 years.

• National Cabinet Mandatory Code of Conduct (the Code), which set out SME Commercial Leasing
  Principles. During COVID-19, the National Cabinet implemented the Code which relied on the states
  and was available for the duration of the JobKeeper program.

• NewAccess for Small Business Owners is a free and confidential mental health coaching program
  delivered by Beyond Blue. No GP referral or mental health treatment plan is required.

• Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment provided a support payment if an individual, or someone they
  were caring for, had to self-isolate or quarantine due to COVID-19.

• Payments to support households provided two separate $750 payments to eligible social security,
  veteran and other income support recipients and eligible concession card holders.



                                                                                                     11
• Quick and efficient access to credit for small business provided temporary relief from responsible
  lending obligations for lenders to get small businesses access to credit.

• Retaining and increasing the Low- and Middle-income tax offset (LMITO). The LMITO was
  scheduled to cease after the implementation of Stage 2 tax cuts, which commenced on 1 July 2020
  and embedded the benefit of LMITO into the rates and thresholds of the tax system. The LMITO
  was instead retained for the 2020-21 and 2021-22 income years and increased by $420 for the
  2021-22 income year, increasing the maximum LMITO benefit to $1,500 for individuals and
  $3,000 for couples.

• Small Business Debt Helpline extended a previous program, the Small Business Bushfire Financial
  Counselling Support Line, and provides free, independent and confidential financial advice by small
  business financial counsellors to small businesses impacted by the pandemic.

• SME Loan Guarantee Scheme Phase 1, SME Loan Guarantee Scheme Phase 2, SME Recovery Loan
  Scheme, and the Show Starter Loan Scheme provided government guarantees to participating
  lenders to enhance their ability to extend credit to SMEs. The loan eligibility criteria varied between
  the schemes.

• Structured Finance Support Fund (SFSF) made targeted investments in structured finance markets
  to support continued access to funding for smaller lenders that provided consumer and business
  finance. AOFM committed up to $3.8 billion in SFSF investments across several warehouse and
  term transactions.

• Supported the aviation sector, including the Retaining Domestic Airline Capability program and the
  Tourism Aviation Network Support Program, which provided 800,000 half-price domestic airfares
  to key tourism destinations.29 This formed part of broader aviation support to help maintain
  essential services and export markets.

• Supported the creative and entertainment sector including the Show Starter Loan Scheme and the
  Restart Investment to Sustain and Expand Fund, to provide seed funding for new productions,
  festivals and events.30

• Temporarily expanding eligibility to income support payments and establishing a new, time-limited
  Coronavirus supplement to be paid to both existing and new recipients of the eligible payment
  categories.

• Temporarily reducing superannuation minimum drawdown rates. Minimum superannuation
  drawdowns are calculated based on a person's balance on 1 July. Halving the drawdown
  requirement reduced the need for retirees to realise capital losses amidst the market volatility of
  COVID-19.




29 See DISR (October 2021)    .Js                  Sei   r and DISR (2022) COVID-19 aviation support for
more details.
30 See Treasury (2021) iow :arter Lc    Scl me and DISR (2022) Restart Investment to Sustain and Expand
(RISE) Fund for more information see.

                                                                                                           12
• Temporary early release of superannuation for individuals impacted financially by the pandemic.
   Eligible Australian and New Zealand citizens and permanent residents were able to apply online
  through myGov to access up to $10,000 of their superannuation before 1 July 2020. They were also
  able to access up to a further $10,000 from 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2020. Eligible temporary
  visa holders were also able to apply for a single release of $10,000 before 1 July 2020. Over the life
  of the measure, $36.4 billion was released to 3.1 million individuals, with a total estimated cost to
  the Budget of $2.22 billion.

• Temporary expansion of the Digital Solutions-Australian Small Business Advisory Service to
   provide general business as well as digital advice to an increased number of small businesses.

• Temporary full expensing allowed eligible businesses (with aggregated annual turnover or total
  income of less than $5 billion) to immediately deduct the full cost of eligible assets acquired from
  announcement on 2020-21 Budget night (7:30 pm AEDT on 6 October 2020) and first used or
  installed ready for use by 30 June 2023 (extended from the initial announcement of 30 June 2022).

   - Temporary full expensing built on the $150,000 instant asset write-off and Backing Business
     Investment measures, which were introduced on 12 March 2020 as time limited accelerated
     depreciation measures available for businesses with aggregated annual turnover of less than
     $500 million.

• Temporary loss carry-back allowed eligible corporate entities to carry-back tax losses from the
  2019-20 to 2021-22, and subsequently 2022-23, income years to offset previously taxed profits as
  far back as the in 2018-19 income year when they lodge their 2020-21, 2021-22 or 2022-23 tax
   returns.

• Temporary relief for financially distressed businesses implemented a range of measures to support
  distressed businesses.31 This included:

   - Increasing the threshold at which creditors could issue a statutory demand on a company from
     $2,000 to $20,000.

   - Temporarily extending the time companies had to respond to statutory demands they received
     from 21 days to 6 months.

   - Temporarily relieving directors of personal liability for insolvent trading with respect to debts
     incurred in the ordinary course of a company's business.

• Temporary relief for financially distressed businesses lessened the threat of actions that could push
   businesses unnecessarily into insolvency.

Economic and financial regulation changes
In addition to Treasury's work through the Council of Financial Regulators, the Treasury's affiliated
regulators took various actions, outlined below.

ASIC:
• Gave temporary relief to enable certain 'low doc' offers to be made to investors, assisting
  Australia's capital markets to remain strong and efficient.

• Extended period for lodging financial reports.




31 Treasury (March 2020) Temporary relief for financially distressed businesses [factsheet].

                                                                                                         13
• ASIC introduced measures to ensure the equity market remained effective and resilient, requiring
  its participants to manage transaction volumes, as well as continuing to monitor the performance
  of markets and financial market infrastructures.

• The Government issued ASIC with a revised statement of expectations emphasising that ASIC
  should contribute to 'supporting Australia's economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic'.32

• ASIC indicated that 'current challenging economic circumstances' were a factor in its enforcement
  decision-making.33

APRA:
• APRA announced a number of actions in response to COVID-19. These included adjusting bank
  capital expectations, delaying its 2020 supervision and policy priorities, and changing reporting
  obligations for some of its regulated entities. Some of the delayed regulatory work was to ensure
   resources in regulated institutions could be directed to other functions due to the environment.
  This reduced regulatory burden and supported financial market functioning.

ACCC:34
• Adjusted processes and analysis to more quickly grant urgent interim authorisations for
  cooperation amongst competitors where this was in the public interest.

• The conduct authorised related to: provision of health services; supply of medicine and other
  essential items; supply of food by supermarkets; relief measures extended to consumers and
   businesses facing financial difficulties; issues related to the medical, economic or social
  consequences of COVID-19.

RBA:35
• The RBA announced extensive measures to provide liquidity to financial markets and to support the
   banking system in providing credit to businesses. Responding to the volatility caused by COVID-19,
  the RBA for a time conducted one and three month repurchase operations.

• The Term Funding Facility (TFF) was established to offer low-cost three-year funding to authorised
  deposit-taking institutions (ADIs).36 The facility closed to new drawdowns on 30 June 2021, at which
  time $188 billion of funding was outstanding.

• The RBA deferred the Review of Retail Payments Regulation, to reduce demands on industry
  stakeholders.

• A swap line with the US Federal Reserve was established, as part of efforts to lessen strains in
  global USD markets.37




32 Frydenberg (26 August 2021) New Statement of Expectation for the Australian Securities and Investments
  or    ssi n [media release],
33 ASIC (22 July 2020) ASIC will not appeal Federal Court decision on Westpac's 'responsible lending' obligations
[media release],
34 For a summary of ACCC's authorisations in 2020 see ACCC (April 2021) C                       i     t    s.
35 For a summary of RBA's actions see RBA (2023) Supporting the Economy and Financial System in Response to
COVID-19.
36 RBA (2023) Term Funding Facility to Support the Australian Economy.
37 RBA (20 March 2020) Reserve Bank of Australia and US Federal Reserve Announce Swap Arrangement [media
release].

                                                                                                               14
Foreign Investment Review Board:38
• Temporarily reduced the foreign investment screening threshold to $0 and extended the deadline
  for case processing to six months, to ensure foreign investment acquisitions were not contrary to
  the national interest.39

Post-pandemic evaluations and reviews
• The JobKeeper Payment: 3-month review was completed by Treasury in June 2020.40 It was
  informed by the status of the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic downturn. The review found
  that the JobKeeper Payment met its initial objectives but that the labour market remained weak.
  The review concluded that an extension of JobKeeper would support the economic recovery.

• Insights from the first six months of JobKeeper presents analysis on the first six months of the
  JobKeeper Payment.41 The report reflects on the design and initial impacts of JobKeeper as a key
  element of the Government's macroeconomic response to COVID-19.

• The Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment assessed the impacts and the processes of
  JobKeeper.42 The evaluation found JobKeeper was effective in preserving employment, supporting
  incomes and prevented large scale business failure.

• Small Business and Mental Health -Through the Pandemic looked at the mental health effects of
  small business in the 2 years to 2022.43 COVID-19 and a series of natural disasters has significantly
  impacted many businesses.

• The Career Effects of Labour Market Conditions at Entry investigates the effects of labour market
  conditions at graduation on an individual's work-life over the following decade.44 Australians that
  graduated into worse labour market conditions can expect to earn less at the start of their career.

• Looking Under the Lamppost or Shining a New Light examines the value of data to policymaking
  using Treasury's experience during the COVID-19 pandemic as a case study.45 It highlights the use of
  new and emerging data and capabilities, and partnerships to build integrated datasets such as the
  Labour Market Tracker developed with the ABS and other data custodians.

• The Australian National Audit Office's (ANAO's) Audit Report: The ATO's Management of Risks
  Related to the Rapid Implementation of COVID-19 Economic Response Measures was completed in
  December 2020.46 The ANAO found that the ATO has been effective in managing the
  implementation risks relating to the six key economic response measures that it was charged with
  administering.




38 Foreign Investment Review Board (June 2021) Annual Report.
39 Frydenberg (29 March 2020) Changes to foreign investment framework [media release],
40 Treasury (June 2020) The JobKeeper Payment: Three-month review.
41 Treasury (October 2021) Insights from the first six months of JobKeeper.
42 Treasury (28 September 2023) Independent Evaluation of the JobKeeper Payment.
43 Treasury (December 2022) Small Business and Mental Health -Through the Pandemic.
44 Andrews et. al. (June 2020) The Career Effects of Labour Market Conditions at Entry [Treasury working paper],
45 Hambur et. al. (February 2022) Looking Under the Lamppost or Shining a New Light.
46 ANAO (14 December 2020) The Australian Taxation Office's Management of Risks Related to the Rapid
Implementation of COVID-19 Economic Response Measures.

                                                                                                             15
• The National Partnership Agreement on HomeBuilder: Review Report was completed in October
  2022.47 It found that the National Partnership Agreement (NPA) supported the effective delivery of
  the program and the achievement of its intended objectives. It also noted that earlier consultation
  with jurisdictions to leverage their grants administration expertise could have resolved many of the
  issues that arose in the NPA's early design and implementation.




47 KPMG (31 October 2022) HomeBuilder National Partnership Agreement Review.

                                                                                                    16
