Submission to the Inquiry       -                        10 December 2023

I hereby submit a response to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry (the
Inquiry) requesting a proper Royal Commission on COVID-19 response.

There must be a Royal Commission with broad terms including revelation of global directions to our
Commonwealth governance.

Australia must retain self-determination.

I further submit that damage to academic, medical, social and economic systems has been caused by
governmental overreach into information limits and by the Commonwealth's complicit invitation for
underlings to insert uneducated restrictions in the name of public health and the consequent
adoption of un-Australian surveillance, directives, mandates & coercive control.

Scope and terms of a Royal Commission should cover a proper investigation into; corrupt vaccine
procurement and secret contracts; mask mandates; lock downs; vaccine mandates, official
misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission, media
censorship, vaccine injuries; silencing of doctors, the role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and
oppression of doctors, and the poor treatment of victims.

Questions must be asked; from where did advice come to direct our Commonwealth so disastrously?




Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response terms;

Regarding governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of
state and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee) and
advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19,

I respond;

Commonwealth overreach must be reduced in any future event.

The Inquiry must ask about who influenced Commonwealth advice.

Questions must be asked, including revelation of global directions to our Commonwealth
governance and their complicit invitation for underlings to insert uneducated restrictions in the
name of public health and the consequent adoption of un-Australian surveillance, directives,
mandates & coercive control.

Australia must retain self-determination.

Regarding key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and
treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and
public health messaging),

I respond;
Firstly the Inquiry should address the irrational mindset behind mounting these health response
measures and examine the integrity of original information provided to governance, then conduct a
proper investigation into; corrupt vaccine procurement and secret contracts; mask mandates; lock
downs; vaccine mandates, official misinformation and lies in the media regarding the ability of
vaccines to block transmission, media censorship; silencing of doctors, the role of AHPRA and ATAGI
in censorship and oppression of doctors; vaccine injuries and the poor treatment of victims.

Since SARS COV2 original data was fraudulent and the vaccine provides no benefits whatsoever for
infection, hospitalization, or death, there is no reason for anyone in the world to take these vaccines.
The COVID vaccines should be immediately halted and inquiries should begin as to why no health
authority in the world did a thorough cohort time-series analysis on the data which would have
uncovered the safety signal very early in the deployment.

Are they all corrupt? Or are they all incompetent? Or both?

Regarding damage to academic, medical, social and economic systems caused by the
Commonwealth response,

I respond;

All of the damage has been caused by governmental overreach into information limits, the complicit
invitation for underlings to insert uneducated restrictions in the name of public health and the
consequent adoption of un-Australian surveillance, directives, mandates & control.

Australia must retain self-determination.
