I am writing this email today because I have had enough!!!!!!!!

I am sick to death of my loved ones DYING because people like yourselves are STILL injecting this
poison into innocent people's arms.

There is enough data out there to prove that these shots are DEADLY. If you are choosing to ignore
this data and you refuse to investigate the results, and you won't listen to the brave Dr's, Nurses, &
Scientists that have spoken out, then you are complicit in perpetrating the biggest Crime Against
Humanity in history, and MAY GOD HAVE MERCY ON YOUR SOULS.

Your silence to ensure that you do not get deregistered by APHRA is disgusting. And shrugging your
shoulders and saying, "I'm just doing my job, won't cut it!!!!

I know that you are making a fortune from this WAR, and that sickens me to my core.

I cannot wait for the lawsuits to begin, because the Government have thrown all Dr's, Nurses &
Chemists who are participating in this^^^^^J under the bus. Your day will come, & you will be
held accountable for the role you have played.

In the early stages of the rollout, there is no way on this earth that you were obtaining proper
"INFORMED CONSENT"
You COULD NOT have been giving your clients the information necessary for them to make an
informed decision, because there wasn't any information. All you did was parrot the narrative " It's
safe and effective"

I will bring you up to speed with my personal death and injury list to date.

                 Found in his bed, the lights on, but no-one home - taken to a

              -Found Dead in her home , herH
                - Dead in his bed -
                       - Found dead in her bed

                 - Went out for lunch and just went down like a sack of potatoes - Turned off her
machine the next day.|
          -Currently in hospital in an induced                                 So the Dr's think)
meanwhile in the last 4 months she has had                                              and a

                               followed by|           followed by              again, and
again
                                              Needed                     to save him.
                                        Manased to save him
                             Years old
                                      behind the wheel of his car coming back from
Crashed headfirst into a parked car.

I could go on! my list is that long.

Why don't you go and visit a Forrest of the Fallen. They are springing up everywhere. We know Main
Stream Media won't talk about the deaths and injuries, because they too have been silenced.
Be on the right side of history and put down your weapons. In this case Needles. YOU ARE KILLING
PEOPLE, AND YOU ARE COMPLICIT.

EVIL THRIVES WHEN GOOD PEOPLE DO NOTHING.

I really hope that you will dig deep into your souls and just stop it!! You are murdering people, and
someone has to call you out on it.
