QUEENSLAND - HEALTH STORY

I am a 56 year old female, and after my 3 years of general Nursing training in the Hospital system
in south-east Old, during the 1980’s, was a Registered Nurse for a further 35 years. I worked in
so many fields in Nursing, loving the fact that there was so much varied casual work for me to
work around my kids as they grew up, and no two days were ever the same! As a person who
loves meeting and listening to people, I would go home from work most days with a glowing
sense of fulfilment that I had been able to help comfort someone through a dark time in their life,
and I regularly received wonderful feedback that my care had made a difference. Living in a small
rural town, I often bumped into former patients, and I was able to enjoy ongoing friendships with
so many people after looking after them first. I made special connections with people of all ages,
and this was my favourite part of my profession.

When Covid surfaced, and I witnessed the extreme measures being used to stop a respiratory
virus, I felt immediately uneasy, and like something was “off.” I, like many, began researching
avidly, and quickly felt highly suspicious over the unfolding global events. On my Facebook page,
I was challenging people to also do their research and ask questions. I asked questions myself,
and posted articles I had found, and which seemed to point to the fact that such measures could
cause significant health and societal issues. It became my full time concern really, and all I could
think and talk about as I felt something was so terribly wrong. Early on they spoke always about
the “coming vaccine” and it seemed that it was going to be like some kind of Saviour of mankind.
At the time this was occuring I was working 3 days a week as a Practice Nurse for a GP. This job
was wonderful and I got to see many patients on a regular basis, and so could become close to
them and what they were going through. We were always able to have great conversations, and I
know that my patients enjoyed their visits to the practice to feel that someone genuinely cared for
them. With the many articles I was reading, I became very concerned that when this vaccine was
produced in record time, I would be required to administer it on a daily basis in my job, as
vaccination is a very big part of the job of a Practice Nurse. And so I was in an existential crisis,
as I knew that my conscience would not allow me to administer a brand new gene therapy type
product that had no medium or long term testing of any kind. This meant that I could not work in
this type of Nursing, and so I handed in my resignation due to this reason.

I was then available for casual shifts in the Emergency department at our local hospital where I
began to work a variety of shifts. In the meantime I had continued to read and learn more and
more about the issues around Covid, and continued to be vocal in my opinions, as a kind of
madness seemed to be taking over everywhere. I had absolutely no fear of getting the virus at all,
and knew that so much of the frenzy going on was based on a paralysing fear of it. I stopped
watching the TV news as it made me sick to my stomach. One day a South Australian Health ad
for the vaccine came across my Facebook feed. I commented on it to the effect that I had been a
nurse for 38 years and would not be taking this vaccine, nor would give it to one single person,
and a Nurse I don’t know began making some vexatious comments on the post to me. I replied
without any similar attitude, and she continued to make comments. After stalking me on my
page, she took screenshots of some posts, and wrote that she was informing AHPRA about me.
Indeed she did, and a few weeks later AHPRA made contact with me saying that I had been
anonymously reported on. At this point, I had such high levels of stress, I was having trouble
sleeping, or focusing on anything else. It was again an existential crisis for me, and AHPRA
effectively wanted to gag me, despite my concerns for the health of literally billions of people
worldwide with an improperly tested new medication technology. I did alot of soul searcing at this
time, and with some counsel from some wonderful ladies, I knew that there was no way I would
be able to stay silent on this issue as the codes of “do no harm”, valid consent and so many
things that I believed in due to my professional ethics, were being breached. In May 2021, I made
the very difficult but peaceful decision to de-register as a Nurse, as all that was going on was not
something I could be a part of in any way.

Being relieved of AHPRA watching me, I immediately did an interview with ^^^^^^^from
Reignite Democracy Australia as I had contacted her and told her my story. When that interview
went online, my life changed from that day on, as I experienced an influx of personal messages
and friend requests, many many hundreds of people, including many nurses from Australia and all
over the world. It was completetly overwhelming and also vindicating. I have had no regrets and
have continued to advocate for hundreds of people who have now lost their jobs, since the cruel
mandates came in, and also for those who have suffered severe post-vaccine reactions. I have
listened to so many personal heartbreaking stories of bullying and coercion, isolation and hate
from family, friends and workmates, brutal sackings, and deteriorating health issues since the
jabs, to name just a few issues.

I do believe I was one of the early Nurses to speak up, and I continue to do so. It has become a
passion for me to support people going through all this, to advocate for them, and to continue
publishing information that peopl^won’t be seeing in the main stream media. My husband has
also now been sacked from|^^^^| after 31 years for declining the jabs, and so now we are
without an income and trying to work out what are our next steps. Our lives have irreversibly
changed as our careers in Health have come to an end in an unprecedented and unexpected way.
