The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel invites interested people and organisations to
make a submission and/or provide evidence to inform recommendations that aim to
improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics.


I would like to acknowledge, with gratitude, this opportunity to make a submission to this
panel as this is a serious topic that impacts every single person in Australia, and the world.
However, it seems to me that before recommendations to improve preparedness for future
pandemics can be offered, it is vital to examine closely the impact of what was done in the
previous COVID-19 pandemic. I do not believe that this Inquiry Panel is sufficient to do this.
Not only has it given interested parties limited time to respond, but the timing being so close
to most people taking a break for the festive season makes the intentions somewhat
questionable. It all feels too rushed for such a serious topic.
I would like to request that a Royal Commission be appointed to thoroughly and properly
investigate the steps taken to manage the COVID-19 Pandemic in Australia, in order to
inform any discussions on future preparedness. The members of such a Commission would
need to clearly demonstrate an absence of any conflict of interest such as not being in any
way supported by any pharmaceutical or vaccine manufacturer. Furthermore, it will focus on
Australia and belong to Australia and offer points of discussion and defence for when the
WHO tries to impose their pandemic approach on Australia.
The areas requiring an in-depth inquiry by a Royal Commission for their impact on the
community in order to ascertain their validity, safety and effectiveness include

   •        lock downs;
   •        mask mandates;
   •        vaccine mandates;
   •   official misinformation conveyed via the media regarding the ability of vaccines to
       block transmission,
   •        processes for vaccine procurement including conflicts of interest;
   •        media censorship,
   •   silencing of doctors, the role of AHPRA and ATAGI in censorship and oppression of
       doctors and other health professionals,
   •   vaccine injuries and the subsequent disregard and poor treatment of those suffering
       vaccine injuries.
Without a clear, in-depth, objective and independent examination of areas such as these it is
not really possible to adequately address future pandemic preparedness.
Our prowess as human beings is in our ability to learn from our mistakes. It takes a lot of
courage and humility to identify these mistakes, and examine how we might have behaved
or performed better, whilst also acknowledging where we might have done well. Until we
embark on such a process the greatest learning is lost and our ability to be better prepared
compromised.
Penny Fox
14 December 2023
