To Whom It May Concern,

I am writing in response to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry as I am someone who was directly impacted
by COVID-19 Vaccine discrimination.

As someone who is very analytical, I did my due diligence in determining my risks associated with taking
the Covid-19 jab by researching my risks, seeking out learnings from other countries, searching the
method statements for the available and researching the ingredients for those injections. After
objectively researching and weighing up my options I concluded that the Covid injections available were
not suitable for me and posed unnecessary risk of harm especially given I have a i^^^^^^Hissue being
a

Covid-19 vaccine mandates began to be rolled out in the WA community in accordance to Mark
McGowan's directives however my position was not one of the listed professions impacted and as
someone who had been working from home for more than 3 years did not feel that I would be adversely
affected. As                      at one of WA's^^^^^^^^^^^|companies I was reassured by
the decision of the^^^^shareholders to not roll out mandatory Covid vaccinations across the
company so initially only government mandated roles were required to have them.

After struggling with an excessive workload (that of three people which my employer was fully aware of
for a number of years), caring for an aging parent
     after a blood clot developed within weeks of having his Astra Zeneca shot) and not having taken
leave for an extended period my manager approved me taking my long service leave and majority of my
annual leave.

While on leave my employer went against^^^^^^^^dvice and implemented a Covid-19 vaccination
requirement sending demanding letters requiring for me to send through my personal medical details.
Having done multiple Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) training sessions with them I was left feeling
very confronted at their request to reveal my personal medical information which leads into having to
reveal other information I deem private and personal with regards to my religious and spiritual beliefs.
Not wanting to personally disclose my details I compiled anonymous concerns for my Union to send
through which were refuted.

During my leave period I had consultation with my Doctor and was provided with a medical certificate
for leave from work. I presented this certificate to my employer asking them to change my Annual Leave
over to Personal Leave and extend out my absence. Although my direct manager was happy for me to
extend my leave (as they had coverage and I had been supporting the team during my absence anyway)
the company position was that they would change out my annual leave up to a point but would not
extend my Annual Leave or approve any additional Personal Leave until I provided a Covid-19
vaccination certificate.

I pointed out that the Covid-19 vaccination was not part of my employment contract and that the
company policy was for a Covid-19 vaccination certificate to be provided 24 hours before arriving on site
and as my medical certificate precluded me from attending work it would only be required prior to my
return and to please approve my leave. This advice was met with a letter from employer stating that as
a valid Covid-19 vaccination certificate was not able to be provided in time for their required date they
would be terminating my employment.
This threatening letter (citing termination of employment) from my employer meant that the Covid-19
vaccination provider I went to was not comfortable administering it as there was clear coercion -
something that goes against Criterion 2 of the Australian Immunisation Handbook Guidelines. I advised
this attempt to comply with their request to my employer, however it was disregarded.

My employment of^|years where I developed a very successful career from the ground up, had
recently received an Outstanding Achievement nomination from my co-workers and had been
presented with commendation from the CEO for my work was cut short in the most humiliating, hurtful
way. My direct manager refused to make the phone call advising of my employment termination (as he
didn't agree with it) forcing his line manager to make the call. I appealed the termination with the CEO
however this request was declined with no attempt made to discuss the situation.

Adding to the pain of my termination to return my work equipment I was forced to meet my manager
outside of the building given I did not have a Covid-19 vaccination to be able to enter. After ■ years I
was not given the opportunity to farewell my colleagues or celebrate my long, successful career. As a
sensitive soul with many colleagues I deemed friends this in itself has caused me immense hurt which
now years down the track has not subsided as I am still suffering trauma resulting in immense sadness,
breaking down in tears and an inability to talk about my experience with getting emotional.

As my termination came while I was on approved Personal (Sick) Leave, my employment contract did
not specify the requirement for any vaccinations and I had made an unsuccessful attempt to comply
with their request I reluctantly took my case to the Fair Work Commission. I say reluctantly as after
spending majority of my life working for this company I still held a fond place for them in my heart but
felt I was treated unfairly resulting in my personal medical information being the subject of gossip and
judgement.
The Covid-19 Vaccination requirements have not only robbed me of my employment (something I am
still yet to replace) but it has also created post traumatic stress type damage that I still struggle with.
Through peak Covid restrictions it also saw me threatened with difficulties in leading a normal life from
my government representative (Premier Mark McGowan) and discriminated against as I was unable to
dine at Bars, Cafe's or Restaurants (even though I could in some instances still enter to place take away
orders). My private, personal beliefs by implication of not providing a vaccination certificate were put on
display for co-workers and hospitality service staff to judge and discriminate against.

Adding to my pain were issues experienced by my close family with^^^^^^|who had worked at
                  for ■ years also terminated from employment for not providing a Covid-19
vaccination however he was still able to go and shop there - if that is not blatant discrimination, I don't
know what is.

I have still not been able to replace my gainful employment and suffer emotionally from the traumatic
experience of Covid-19 Vaccination discrimination. Where I was well on my way to financial self
sufficiency both now and in retirement, thanks to the discrimination received this has now taken a
severe turn with long term financial impact as I struggle to regain my place in society.

Interfering with patient / Doctor privilege is not ok. Mandating anything that cannot be reversed is not
ok. Mandating a medical procedure of any kind is not ok. Threatening loss of employment for not taking
a provisionally approved medical procedure is not ok. Creating government backed loopholes for
businesses to take advantage of, ignore human rights and existing employment contracts is not ok.
Threatening members of society with exclusion is not ok. Pressuring anyone to ignore their own risk
analysis to keep their job, be able to go to a restaurant, cafe or entertainment precinct is not ok.
Allowing hospitality staff the ability to request private medical information from patrons is not ok.
Allowing years of hard-fought human rights to be revoked over a questionable determination of a so-
called pandemic is not ok. Discrimination based on one's judgement over what they put or don't put in
their own body is not ok.

After the discrimination encouraged by my government, adopted and taken advantage of by my
(former) employer and various businesses I have lost faith in our system and have developed distrust
that the rights of individuals are being represented by those in positions of power. Questions and
concern must therefore be asked over what else might be forced on the people at the whim of big
business or financial offerings without necessary protections in place making it illegal to do so.

Personally knowing three people aged in their^^^H (my age) who ended up in the emergency
department after receiving their Pfizer shot (the lucky ones to survive it) who only took it to keep their
employment I question how much more harm our government is willing to allow and how much
unnecessary pressure on our hospitals, costs to taxpayers and risk of life they are complicit in
encouraging. The damage to Australia's reputation in this space is also immeasurable having read some
very unflattering comments from those overseas who now rule out ever coming here.

With so much information now coming to light on the potential for long term harm (or death), general
safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccinations it would be complicit for any individual or organisation
to still require their staff or patrons to have it administered so the practice of allowing discrimination
based on it should be legally outlawed and left as a matter for the individual to discuss in private with
their medical practitioner (who they themselves should not be receiving any coercion or pressure on).
The fact that the motion to investigate the greatest number of deaths across all age groups in Australia
since World War 2 (according to Australia Bureau of Statistics) is not being supported implies that those
in Australian government are ok with seeing an excess of Australian deaths (potentially from the Covid-
19 vaccinations) however I am not and nor should anyone who is charged with a position of authority
over the Australian public.

I plead with and implore all of those in government whose job it is to represent the people of Australia
to please do the right thing and conduct a thorough and impartial investigation into the pandemic
response. As someone who is still struggling with the aftermath of the pandemic I would like to see
more mental health support services promoted and provided free of charge as I feel it is something that
would help me to recover from my ordeal. I feel a public apology from those in government and those
employers who were able to blatantly discriminate against those who chose to be in charge of their own
bodily autonomy would also be appropriate with a review of whether reinstatement or financial
recompense is appropriate.



Kind regards,

Name Withheld
