To Whom It May Concern:

I am shocked that I need to be making a submission about the Australian Government
response to COVID-19. If you had told me in 2019 that there would be mandated lockdowns
entailing fines for leaving one's home more than once a day for exercise or to buy essential
items and ,mandatory "vaccinations" (please note the WHO had to change their definition of
vaccines to accommodate these experimental injections) to keep their jobs and pay their
bills, I would never have believed our governments (Federal and States/Territories) could
have failed the Australian people so thoroughly. The contempt MPs showed for the health
(physical and mental) and their willingness to override the ability of the Australian people to
make their own decisions regarding their health was heartbreaking and alarming.

The forced injections of foreign materials that have been shown b^         Inot to be safe or
effective (please see         own documents, which they were forced to make available on
the internet detailing higher death and injury rates in the vaccinated compared with the
unvaccinated), have come at a huge cost to the Australian people in terms of their health
and wellbeing. For example, a May 18, 2021, FDA memo reveals the agency was aware its
national electronic system for monitoring product safety was                     for evaluating
the risk for myocarditis and pericarditis following receipt of the Pfizer vaccine, which states




https://www.cincinnatichildrens.Org/health/m/myocarditis accessed February 3rd, 20230).

My husband and I both faced the illusory "choice" of being "vaccinated" or having our
employment terminated. My husband is a                                  and has come home
with ticks on his body several times over the years. This was never a significant problem
prior to his injection with the Pfizer COVID "vaccine". Since that time, he has been bitten by
ticks twice and both time
         his had never happened previously. You are probably doubtful that this is related to
the vaccine, but we have a friend          ho developed both                              0
ticks                                                       after her "vaccination".

My mother was hospitalised after 1 dose of Pfizer due to an allergic reaction - difficulty
breathing and she came out in a rash over her body.

After my mother's experience, I took leave from work until mid-2022 when I had Novavax.
After lockdowns finished I was exposed to friends who were diagnosed with COVID
immediately after spending between 1 afternoon and four days with me. They were
concerned for me as I was not vaccinated but I did not contract COVID at all whilst
unvaccinated. It was only after I was "vaccinated" that I caught COVID for the first time.
Four weeks after the Novavax "vaccine",B
point my GP thought I                                     It literally took months before my
fingers returned to their usual size. When I told my friend^^H about this, she assured me
that this is a known reaction because one of her daughters had the same thing happen to
her and sure enough, I found an article from the media in the UK "Why COVID vaccines can
make your hands change colour".

Before I took leave from work, a colleague told me she was contacted by a young teacher
who suddenly had^^^^^after her first Pfizer "vaccination". Her GP convinced her this had
nothing to do with the injection and advised her to have the second shot. After her second
"vaccination" she had ^^^^^^^^^|and had subsequently been diagnosed with a^^^H
         A friend was diagnosed with arrhythmia after her booster, without any prior
related medical history.

Several of my friends found themselves unemployed after refusing to be injected with an
experimental "vaccine". One,         mother^^^H has not returned to her pre-covid
mandate career and does cleaning and gardening for people in the local area to make ends
meet. Another friend had to be financially supported by her mother and brother and has
also not returned to employment. The employment of a work colleague was also terminated
for this reason. At least they have retained their dignity and are fit and healthy.

Lockdowns caused irreversible damage to children's development. Young children need to
interact with peers and extended friends and family to learn social skills, develop their
communication skills, comprehension of non-verbal communication including facial
expressions and need to see adults making sounds with their mouths to imitate speech
patterns. Young children were denied these opportunities due to lockdowns and mask
mandates.

Children with additional needs and behaviour diagnoses learn best in a structured
environment with a qualified teacher. Their educational progress has been set-back
irreversibly due to school closures when the only option available to them was "online
learning". Parents were working from home and expected to supervise their children's
school work at the same time, undermining workplace productivity, the mental health of
parents and children and children's learning. In hindsight, lockdowns and school closures can
only be seen as serious policy failures.

Another poor decision by the Australian Government to pay people to stay at home because
they lost their jobs due to lockdowns, instead of investing in manufacturing led to
substantial government debt and no improvements to productivity.

The decisions that were made were not in the best interests of Australian citizens. Who were
they designed to benefit? ^^^made $44 billion in profits in 2021 and almost $66 billion in
2022. I wonder how many of the decision-makers had ^^^^^^^^^^^shares and/ or
received generous research grants from pharmaceutical companies.
