           Women
           With

           Australia
           (WWDA)                                                         Winner, National Human Rights Award 2001
                                                                   Winner, National Violence Prevention Award 1999
                                                                     Winner, Tasmanian Women’s Safety Award 2008
                                          Certificate of Merit, Australian Crime & Violence Prevention Awards 2008
                                 Nominee, UNESCO Prize for Digital Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities 2020
                                                                            Nominee, National Disability Awards 2017
                                                               Nominee, French Republic’s Human Rights Prize 2003
                                                              Nominee, UN Millennium Peace Prize for Women 2000


Independent Panel, COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
PO Box 6500
Canberra ACT 2600


22 December 2023


Dear members of the COVID-19 Response Inquiry Independent Panel


Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry


I write to you from Women With Disabilities Australia (WWDA),1 in relation to the Commonwealth
Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry. WWDA is the National Disabled People's Organisation
(DRO) and National Women's Alliance (NWA) for women, girls, feminine identifying, and non­
binary people with disability in Australia.


Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, WWDA made a number of submissions to the Australian
Government regarding the impacts of the pandemic, and the Government's response, on people
with disability. WWDA expressed grave concern about the Government's actions, and called for
urgent action to protect the health, wellbeing, and human rights of people with disability.


As the Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People with Disability
found, the Australian Government failed to consult with people with disability and their
representative organisations in relation to its response to the pandemic, and further failed to
develop a plan to specifically address the needs of the disability community.2 This had serious
adverse consequences for many people with disability, including: extreme stress and anxiety due
to a lack of PPE including for support staff; a sudden loss of essential support services, particularly
within closed settings; impaired health and wellbeing due to an inability to access essential
supplies; significant distress due to a lack of clear, consistent and accessible information about the
pandemic and the steps taken to control it; and threats to mental health due to isolation.3 While
there is inadequate data on COVID-19 associated deaths among people with disability in Australia,
the limited existing data suggests that people with disability have experienced (and continue to
experience) greater risk of infection, greater severity of illness, and greater risk of mortality.




                                                      Women With Disabilities Australia (WWDA)
                                                                                   wwda.org.au
                                                                           Ph: +61 438 535123
                                                   PO Box 407, Lenah Valley, 7008 TASMANIA
WWDA has Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations
WWDA therefore welcomes the Inquiry into the Commonwealth Government response to COVID-
19. We trust that the findings and recommendations made by the Independent Panel will result in
improved preparedness for crisis and pandemic response in future. In particular, we are hopeful
that any future pandemic or crisis response will take into account the rights, needs and priorities of
people with disability, and will be undertaken consistent with Australia's international human rights
obligations. To assist the Independent Panel with its review, we have enclosed the following:


     1. WWDA's submission, Response to the Emergency Planning Issues Paper submitted by
          WWDA to the Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People
          with Disability;
     2. Disability Sector Statement of Concern: COVID-19: Human rights, disability and ethical
          decision-making, prepared by WWDA and other peak disability representative
        organisations;
     3. Disability Sector Open Letter to the National Cabinet: Immediate Actions Required for
          Australians with Disability in Response to Coronavirus (COVID19), prepared by WWDA and
          a diverse range of organisations representing the interests of people with disability, their
          families, carers and support persons;
     4. WWDA's submission, Australia's response to women with disability during the pandemic,
        submitted by WWDA to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19; and
     5. Disability Sector Joint Statement on the Government Response to Omicron, prepared by
          WWDA and other peak disability representative organisations.


Yours sincerely,




Carolyn Frohmader
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Women With Disabilities Australia
Finalist, 100 Women of Influence Awards 2015
Australian Human Rights Award (Individual) 2013
State Finalist Australian of the Year 2010
Inductee, Tasmanian Women's Honour Roll 2009
Australian Capital Territory Woman of the Year Award 2001


1 See: https:/7wwda.orq.au/
2 Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People with Disability (2020) Report on Public hearing 5;
Experiences ofpeople with disability during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, p. 5-6.




                                                                      Women With Disabilities Australia (WWDA)
                                                                                   wwda.org.au
                                                                            Ph:+61 438 535123
                                                    PO Box 407, Lenah Valley, 7008 TASMANIA
 WWDA has Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations
as®).           Women
                With
                Disabilities
                Australia
                (WWDA)




 3 Royal Commission into Violence, Abuse, Neglect and Exploitation of People with Disability (2020) Report on Public hearing 5:
 Experiences ofpeople with disability during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, p. 5-6.




                                                                       Women With Disabilities Australia (WWDA)
                                                                                      wwda.org.au
                                                                              Ph: +61 438 535 123
                                                      PO Box 407, Lenah Valley, 7008 TASMANIA
   WWDA has Special Consultative Status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations
           Australi a’s response to
      women with disab I ty during
                     the pandamic

                        Submission to the Senate Select
                              Committee on COVID-19

                                             2 June 2020




                                        Women
                                        With




WWDA has Special Consultative Status with the Economic
               and Social Council of the United Nations
Dear Committee Secretary


Women With Disabilities Australia (WWDA) welcomes the opportunity to provide
this submission to the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19.

WWDA is the national Disabled People’s Organisation (DPO), managed and run
by women with disability, for women and girls with disability, and representing
more than two million disabled women and girls in Australia. Our purpose is to
promote and advance the human rights and freedoms of women and girls with
disability.

WWDA is a founding member of Disabled People’s Organisations Australia (DPO
Australia), an alliance of four national DPOs in Australia - WWDA, First People’s
Disability Network Australia, National Ethnic Disability Alliance, and People with
Disability Australia. The key purpose of DPO Australia is to promote, protect and
advance the human rights and freedoms of people with disability in Australia by
working collaboratively on areas of shared interest, purpose and strategic priority.

Australia ranks fourth on the Global Health Security Index (CHS Index) out of
the 196 countries that are signatories to the World Health Organisation (WHO)
International Health Regulations 2005 (IHR).1 The IHR is the foundational legally
binding international standard for health, and the CHS Index is an assessment
and benchmarking of health security and related capabilities, and a key resource
for mitigating against outbreaks of infectious diseases and pandemics.2 In the
context of mitigating against and containing the COVID-19 pandemic, Australia
has to date far surpassed the three countries ranked above it on the CHS Index
- the United States, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands - as well as many
other countries rated as the ‘most prepared’ in terms of health security.3


                                                                   2. EARLY DETECTIONS
                                                                      REPORTING FOR                3. RAPID RESPONSE TO
OVERALL SCORE                                                         EPIDEMICS OF POTENTIAL          AND MITIGATION OF THE
                                        272232^                       INTERNATIONAL                   SPREAD OF AN EPIDEMIC

 Ra-k                    Score   Ra-k                    Sc ere                            Score       lank                    Score


   1    United States    83.5      1    United States    831          1   United States    9S.2           1   United Kingdom   91.9

   2    United Kingdom   77.9      2    Sweden           81.1         2 Australia          97.3          2    United States    79.7

   3    Netherlands      75.6      3 Thailand            75.7         2   Latvia           97.3          3    Switzer.a nd     79.3

   4 Australia           75.5      4    Netherlands      73.7         4   Canada           96 4          4    Netherlands      79.1

   5    Canada           75.3      5    Denmark          72.9         5   South Korea      921           5 Thailand            78.6

   6 Thailand            73.2      6    France           71.2         6   United Kingdom   87.3          6    South Korea      71.5

   7    Sweden           72.1      7 Canada              70.0         7   Denmark          86.0          7 Finland             69.2

   e    Denmark          70.4      S Australia           68.9         7   Netherlands      86 0          8    Portugal         67.7

   9    South Korea      70.2      9    Finland          68.5         7 Sweden             86 0          9    Brazil           67.1
                                                                                                   1    10
  10    Finland          68.7     10    United Kingdom   68.3        10   Germany          34.6               Australia        65.9



                                                                  Source: Global Health Security Index
However, the COVID-19 pandemic is not simply a health crisis, and there is
global recognition that the pandemic is exposing and exacerbating pre-existing
inequality and discrimination for the most marginalised and excluded groups in
our society, including people with disability.4

Since early 2020, globally and in Australia, there has been constant and growing
anxiety, fear and concern among the disability community about the exclusion
and lack of response to the specific issues and concerns of people with disability.
This exclusion not only significantly increases the risks from the pandemic, it
sends a clear message that the lives of people with disability are worth less than
others.

In Australia, there was a two month gap between the 17 February release of
the Australian Health Sector Emergency Response Plan for Novel Coronavirus
(COVID-19) (Emergency Response Plan)5 and the 16 April endorsement by
National Cabinet of the Management and Operational Plan for COVID-19 for
People with Disability (Disability Operational Plan).6 While the Emergency
Response Plan highlights the need for specific health responses for ‘at-risk
groups’, people with disability were largely excluded from risk mitigation
measures and health responses to the pandemic until the development of the
Disability Operational Plan.




WWDA, along with many other national, State and Territory DPOs, and disability
peak and advocacy organisations have consistently demanded specific and
targeted measures to protect and respond to critical issues for people with
disability. Many of these organisations, including WWDA began to post online
COVID-19 resources and information, develop accessible information resources
and respond to significantly increased demand from the disability community,
as many people with disability were unable to access or obtain information to
address their issues and concerns.7
On the 18 March, a month after the release of the Emergency Response Plan,
the Council of Australian Governments (COAG) Disability Reform Council issued
a Communique that “acknowledged that COVID-19 presents a significant and
unprecedented challenge for people with disability, the people who care for
them and the disability sector as a whole”.8 The Council agreed on a number of
priorities directed at the ongoing delivery of the National Disability Insurance
Scheme (NDIS); access to critical health services, such as Telehealth and personal
protective equipment; increased flexibility of NDIS planning; responses to
disability workforce shortages; and the viability of NDIS providers. While these
measures were welcome and addressed some of our concerns, they only focused
on particular elements of the NDIS, which currently only covers less than 10%
of people with disability. Most people with disability do not receive support
through the NDIS, and the NDIS does not address the broader socio-economic
and human rights impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.

On 20 March, eight national peak disability organisations,9 including WWDA
publicly expressed our disappointment at the Disability Reform Council
and Cabinet meetings that “have yet again failed to meet the growing and
urgent needs of people with disability”.10 Our organisations urged “all levels of
government, agencies such as the NDIS, and the private sector to work with
us to make sure that people with disability aren’t left behind in this current
crisis”.11 We released a full package of measures, Immediate Proactive Response
to Coronavirus (COVID-19) for Australians with Disability, tourgentlyensurethe
wellbeing of people with disability.12


These measures included the need for:


•   a dedicated Disability Taskforce;
•   increased supports through the NDIS;
•   increased disability support for those not eligible for the NDIS;
•   a range of specific healthcare, employment, income support, education and
    telecommunication measures; and
•   the need to extend the time for the Disability Royal Commission given
    disruptions caused by the pandemic.

The package also included a range of specific measures that acknowledged
the diversity and intersectional issues of the disability community, including
for women and girls with disability, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people
with disability, people with disability from culturally and linguistically diverse
backgrounds, children and young people with disability, people with intellectual
disability, people with psychosocial disability, Deaf Auslan users, the Deafblind
community and the hard of hearing and Deaf community.
WWDA participated in a number of other collective calls to action that highlight
the significant socio-economic and human rights impact of the pandemic on
people with disability, including:


•   Increase Disability Support Pension now to deal with coronavirus -people
    with disability on the Disability Support Pension (DSP) are facing additional,
    unforeseen costs during the pandemic but have been excluded from the
    Coronavirus Supplement of $550 per fortnight.13


•   No Austra an .eft Off       - people with disability are among many on low
    incomes and/or living in remote areas that are not connected to the internet
    and require specific measures to ensure access to information and online
    services, particularly in response to the pandemic.14


•   Keep us safe: Government-funded workplaces putting up to 20,000 Aussies
    with intellectual disability in the firing ne of COVID-~I9 - while people were
    being encouraged to work from home, many Australian Disability Enterprises
    (ADEs) were continuing ‘business-as-usual’, and putting their workers at risk,
    despite one confirmed case (as at the 1 April) of a worker with intellectual
    disability diagnosed with COVID-’I9.15


•   Statement of Concern - COVID-~I9: Human rights, disability and ethical
    decision-making (attached to this submission) - a growing demand for
    critical health treatment and life-saving measures created significant
    anxiety that people with disability would be triaged out by medical decision­
    making protocols based on value judgements and discriminatory criteria;16
    this Statement of Concern by internationally recognised human rightsand
    bioethic experts outlines human rights principles and standards to underpin
    ethical decision-making in the medical context.17
advocacy organisations, universities, and supporters from across Australia to
send an Open Letter to the Prime Minister and the National Cabinet calling
for comprehensive measures to be taken immediately to address the health,
socio-economic and human rights impact for all people with disability during
the COVID-19 crisis.18 The full Open Letter is attached to this submission for the
consideration of the Senate Select Committee on COVID-19.
In summary, the Open Letter provides a list often actions that are considered
urgent to proactively protect and support people with disability, their families,
carers and support persons from the impact of COVID-19:


1.   Guarantee continuity of supports for all people with disability.
2.   Expand criteria for COVID19 testing to include people with disability and their
     support persons.
3.   Urgently improve information and communications to be inclusive of all
     people with disability.
4.   Take measures to remove the barriers to adequate healthcare for people with
     disability.
5.   Include recipients of the Disability Support Pension (DSP) in the Coronavirus
     Supplement of $550 per fortnight.
6.   Urgently define what constitutes an ‘essential service’ for people with
     disability.
7.   Ensure effective measures are in place to recognise and respond to violence,
     abuse, exploitation and neglect of people with disability.
8.   Prevent discrimination of students with disability in the provision of
     education.
9.   Ensure the human rights of people with disability in congregate and other
     settings are upheld.
10. Adequately resource Disabled Peoples Organisations (DPOs) and Disability
    Representative Organisations (DROs) to enable support of, and advocacy for,
    people with disability.

On the same day, 3 April, the Government responded and announced that it had
established an advisory group to guide the development and implementation
of the Disability Operational Plan.19 This important development meant that
the Government had finally recognised the significant risks for all people with
disability that warranted a specific, targeted national response as part of the
Emergency Response Plan. It also recognised the importance of including within
the advisory group the expertise of people with disability, DPOs and disability
advocates along with disability service providers, researchers, healthcare
professionals, and Australian, State and Territory government officials.
The Disability Operational Plan states that it “reflects the Government’s
commitment to upholding the United Nations Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and the National Disability Strategy 2010-
2020”.20 It emphasises the importance of ensuring that health services and
health care respect the rights of people with disability, including the right to life,
the right to the same standard of health care, the right to non-discriminatory
health care free from value judgement and bias, and the right to autonomy and
dignity in health care.21 The Disability Operational Plan is described as “a living
document”22 and its implementation is being overseen by the advisory group.
WWDA will continue to monitor its implementation and outcomes for people
with disability.


     While WWDA is pleased that the Disability Operational Plan has finally been
    developed and is now being implemented, its focus on “broad, c nical, public
    health and communication actions”23 means that the broader socio-economic
    and human rights impact of COVID-19 for people with disability, as outlined in
               the attached Open Letter, largely remain unaddressed.


In particular, WWDA remains concerned about:


•    Violence, abuse, exploitation and neglect of people with disability, in
     particular women and girls with disability: the specific measures announced
     by the government to respond to the increase in domestic and family
     violence will not necessarily address the greater risks of violence for women
     and girls with disability, particularly those in institutional settings, such as
     group homes, aged care and psychiatric facilities; ‘lock down’ measures are
     already increasing violence and abuse in these settings.


•    Increase in the use of restrictive practices, particularly in congregate settings:
     social distancing and other preventative measures are resulting in the ‘lock
     down’ of many institutional settings and the use of restrictive practices that
     go beyond public health orders, such as locking people in rooms, stopping
     people going out to exercise, work or see health professional,24 and increased
     use of chemical, physical and environmental restraints.


•    Increased poverty: 45% of people with disability live in poverty, which is more
     than double the OECD average of 22%;25 the pandemic has significantly
     increased additional and unforeseen costs, particularly impacting on DSP
     recipients who have not received the Coronavirus Supplement, and those not
     eligible for NDIS support.
While the Disability Operational Plan notes Australia’s commitment to the
CRPD, this commitment has largely not been evident to people with disability
in Australia’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Article 11 of the CRPD
Situations of risk and humanitarian emergencies requires States Parties to take
ail possible measures to protect people with disability in situations or risk,26
and article 4 General Obligations requires that people with disability be closely
consulted and actively included in the development and implementation of
legislation and policies that impact their lives.27 A human rights approach to the
pandemic response would recognise pre-existing inequality and discrimination
as increasing risks and vulnerability for people and disability, and take action to
address this.

As Australia continues its response to the pandemic and plans its recovery
efforts, it is critical that Australia adopts a human rights approach and
genuinely integrates the CRPD into these response and recovery efforts. In
this regard, the United Nations (UN) provides guidance for all States Parties
on a disability-inclusive, human rights approach in its May 2020 policy brief, A
Disability-Inclusive Response to COVID-19.28 The policy brief also emphasises
that a disability-inclusive response to COVID-19 will make progress towards the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development.29 The SDGs are the global goals that Australia has committed to in
addressing poverty and inequality.




It is disappointing that Australia’s domestic response to the pandemic for
people with disability has not matched its international rhetoric. On 18 May 2020,
Australia joined with 137 UN Member States and observers to publicly respond
to and support the UN policy brief on a disability-inclusive response to the
pandemic.
Th is res ponse, Disability-inclusive response to COVID-ig - Towards a better future
for a 30 highlights the disproportionate impact of the pandemic on people with
disability, which is further exacerbated by intersectional discrimination faced by
women, children and older persons with disability. It emphasises that:




This international commitment made by Australia must now translate into
genuine domestic action.

Thank you for the opportunity to make this submission. We confirm that this
submission can be made public, and that we would be pleased to provide
further information or clarification if required.


With kind regards




Executive Director

Finalist, 100 Women of Influence Awards 2015
Australian Human Rights Award (Individual) 2013
State Finalist Australian of the Year 2010
Inductee, Tasmanian Women’s Honour Roll 2009
Australian Capital Territory Woman of the Year Award 2001
                         4*.      Women
                                  With


                                  (WWDA)



          Winner, National Human Rights Award 2001
     Winner, National Violence Prevention Award 1999
     Winner, Tasmanian Women’s Safety Award 2008
               Certificate of Merit, Australian Crime &
                   Violence Prevention Awards 2008
            Nominee, National Disability Awards 2017
Nominee, French Republic’s Human Rights Prize 2003
Nominee, UN Millennium Peace Prize for Women 2000




                                  Ph
                     Email
                 Email
                               Website: wwda.orq.au
                         Faceook: WWDA.Australia
                                 Twitter: WWDA AU
End notes
1    Nuclear Threat Initiative and Center for Health Security, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
     School of Public Health, CHS Index - Global Health Security Index, Building Collective
     Action and Accountability (October 2019), p. 125. Available at: https://www.ghsindex.org/
     report-model/ (accessed 26 May 2020).

2    Ibid. p. 5.

3    Ibid. p. 20.

4     See for example, United Nations, Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity: Responding to
     the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 (March 2020); United Nations, Policy Brief: The
     Impact of COVID-19 on Women (9 April 2020); United Nations, Policy Brief: The Impact of
     COVID-19 on children (15 April 2020); United Nations, Policy Brief: A Disability-Inclusive
     Response to COVID-19 (May 2020).

5    Department of Health, Australian Health Sector Emergency Response Plan for Novel
     Coronavirus (COVID-19), Commonwealth of Australia, 2020.

6    Department of Health, Management and Operational Plan for COVID-19 for People with
     Disability, Commonwealth of Australia, 2020.

7    See for example, WWDA, http://wwda.org.au/coronavirus-covid-19/ ; People with Disability
     Australia, https://pwd.org.au/covid-19-hub/ ; First Peoples Disability Network, https://fpdn.
     org.au/covidl9/; Australian Federation of Disability Organisations, https://www.afdo.org.
     au/coronavirus-covid-19-information/; Every Australian Counts, https://everyaustralian-
     counts.com.au/ndis-coronavirus/.

8    COAG Disability Reform Council, ‘Meeting of the COAG Disability Reform Council,
     Telepresence -18 March 2020 Communique ’, https://www.dss.qov.au/disability-and-car-
     ers-proqrams-services-qovernment-international-disabilitv-reform-council/communi-
     q ue-18-march-2020.

9    WWDA, Australian Federation of Disability Organisations (AFDO), Children and Young
     People with Disability Australia (CYDA), Disability Advocacy Network Australia (DANA),
     First Peoples Disability Network (FPDN), Inclusion Australia (IA), National Ethnic Disabili­
     ty Alliance (NEDA), People with Disability Australia (PWDA).

10   ‘Urgent measures needed to support people with disability during COVID-19 crisis’, Me­
     dia Release (20 March 2020). Available at: http://wwda.orq.au/urqent-measures-needed-
     to-support-people-with-disabi I ity-du ri ng-covid-19-crisis/ (accessed 27 May 2020).

n    Ibid.

12   Immediate Proactive Response to Coronavirus (COVID-19) for Australians with Disability.
     Available at: https://mcusercontent.com/9b4dc5c4cde2d6162dcb52396/files/d314e3a2-
     38d0-4e7c-8953-5el 49ea6ffc8/Urqent actions needed for people with disability to re­
     spond to COVI D 19.pdf
13   WWDA, AFDO, CYDA, DANA, FPDN, NEDA, PWDA, IA, Blind Citizens Australia, Every
     Australian Counts, Ideas, ‘Increase Disability Support Pension now to deal with corona­
     virus’ (24 March 2020). Available at: http://wwda.orq.au/increase-disability-support-pen-
     sion-now-to-dea I-with-coronavirus/

14   Australian Communications Consumer Action Network (ACCAN), ‘COVID-19 Response’,
     Letter to the Hon Paul Fletcher MP, Minister for Communications (26 March 2020). Avail­
     able at: http://wwda.orq.au/no-australian-left-offline/

15   Inclusion Australia, Disability Advocacy Network Australia, Women With Disabilities
     Australia, ‘Keep us safe: Government-funded workplaces putting up to 20,000 Aussies
     with intellectual disability in the firing line of COVID-19’ (2 April 2020). Available at: http://
     wwda.orq.au/keep-us-safe-qovernment-funded-workplaces-puttinq-up-to-20000-auss-
     ies-with-intellectual-disabilitv-in-the-firinq-line-of-covid-19/

16   Jackie Leach Scully, ‘Disablism In a Time of Pandemic: Some Things Don’t Change’
     (Blog, 1 April 2020) International Journal of Feminist Approaches to Bioethics. Available
     at: https://www.iifab.orq/bloq/2020/04/disablism-in-a-time-of-pandemic-some-thinqs-
     dont-chanqe/ .

17   WWDA, PWDA, NEDA, AFDO, FPDN, ACT Council of Social Services, ‘Statement of Con­
     cern - COVID-19: Human rights, disability and ethical decision-making ’ (15 April 2020).
     Available at: http://wwda.orq.au/media-release-covid-19-statement-of-concern-hu-
     man-rights-disability-and-ethical-decision-makinq/

18   An Open Letter to the National Cabinet - Immediate Actions Required for Australians
     with Disability in Response to Coronavirus (COVID-19)’ (3 April 2020). Available at: http://
     wwda.orq.au/open-letter-to-the-prime-minister-and-all-the-premiers/

19   The Hon. Greg Hunt MP, the Hon. Anne Rushton MP, the Hon. Stuart Robert MP, ‘Im­
     mediate Response Plan to Focus on People with Disability During Coronavirus’ (Media
     Release, 3 April 2020). Available at: https://ministers.dss.qov.au/media-releases/5701

20   Ibid. p. 5,

2    Ibid. p. 5,

22   Department of Health, Management and Operational Plan for COVID-19 for People with
     Disability, op. cit., p. 6,

23   Ibid. p. 6,

24   Joel Magarey, ‘People with disabilities refused exercise, healthcare as homes take coro­
     navirus rules too far’ (18 May 2020) The New Daily. Available at: https://thenewdailv.com.
     au/news/coronavirus/2020/05/18/coronavirus-care-home-rules-qo-too-far/

25   PWC, Disability expectations: investing in a better life, a stronger Australia (2011). Avail­
     able at: https://www.pwd.com.au/industrv/qovernment/assets/disabilitv-in-austrlaia.pdf

26   Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, [2008] ATS 12, article 11.

T1   Ibid. Article 4(3),
28   United Nations, Policy Brief: A Disability-Inclusive Response to COVID-19 (May 2020). Avail­
     able at: https://www.un.orq/sites/un2.un.orq/files/sq policv brief on persons with disabili­
     ties final.pdf

29   See United Nations website at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.orq

30   ‘Disability-inclusive response to COVID-19 - Towards a better future for all’, Available at:
     https://www.un.orq/development/desa/disabilities/wp-content/uploads/sites/15/2020/05/
     Joint-statement-Disabilitv-inclusive-response-to-COVID-19.pdf

31   Ibid.
