15th December 2023

SUBMISSION FOR THE COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY

Please accept this correspondence as my submission for the handling of the Covid-19
pandemic by the Australian Government.

I reject your terms of reference and that a Royal Commission is the MINIMUM BASIC STEP
required to address the issue in a manner that is fair and holds those involved accountable.



   1) We were mortified at the choices made by State and Federal Governments during
      this period and the threat against Personal Autonomy were like none I have ever
      seen in my lifetime. To mandate an untested vaccine as a requirement to earn the
      money to feed your family, cast upon us by those in authority was shameful.
      Discrimination of Australian workers went against everything we have been building
      up in this country to protect employees.

       Given the data and the information that has come out now from companies like
       Pfizer, where they tried to hide the data, it proves that the government acted in
       haste.

   2) Prevention of free travel between states in a country that has laws to prevent these
      blocks was so incredibly unethical. The devastation to businesses and families was
      heartbreaking. It should never have been allowed.

   3) The over spending on vaccines reeked of corruption. The biggest transfer of wealth
      in the history of the modern world occurred during this time, mainly because of
      excessive government spending including Australian Government spending. This
      needs to be investigated to discover who benefited from the excess waste. The 255
      million doses purchased should be proved to have been used and not had 190
      million dumbed as they were not wanted and had expired.

   4) The removal of anti-viral medications from the treatment regime needs to be
      investigated. It is common knowledge that patients are now given these
      medications but anyone who suggested such treatments were originally attacked by
      media and AHPRA.

   5) AHPRA should be investigated for it's appalling control of its members in their
      handling of Covid patients in regards to vaccinations and treatment of patients with
      Covid. Why are they allowed to make decisions to remove licences off doctors who
      went against AHPRA directed narratives?

   6) AHPRA having the Prime Minister Scott Morrisons brother in charge of it was a
      massive conflict of interest.
   7) Stopping travel of Australians to and from Australia was a disgusting abuse of human
      rights. There should be no power going forward stopping you from returning to your
      own country. The impact of border closures is a human rights issue.

   8) The closure of schools and universities during this time has had long lasting effects
      that will never be repaired. Children are missing huge parts of their education
      because they were locked in their homes.

   9) The dissolution of mental health as a result of no contact during these ridiculous
      mandates is something that will be felt for many years.

   10) Giving indemnity to Pharmaceutical companies that were paid billions of dollars to
       provide an untested vaccine seems to reek of corruption. Now tax payers have to
      fund the damage that was caused by a product that tax payers had to pay for.

   11) The two weeks mandated isolation of people who did work as pilots etc, or who
      travelled for any reason was a terrible waste of money and time and will have lasting
      impacts on mental health.

   12) The media being controlled to deliver the Government dictated diatribe was corrupt
      at its core in a country founded on free speech.

There are many more things that come to mind but these are some of the major ways that
the Australian Government, both Federally and State levels, have grossly mistreated
Australians and Australian businesses.

It is my and my families hope, that a Royal Commission will bring to justice the crimes
committed against us and for the harm caused.
