                                                            UNSW
                                                            Kirby Institute




                     Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Enquiry

                       Submission on behalf of Kirby Institute, UNSW Sydney



About the Kirby Institute and our involvement in the COVID-19 response: The Kirby Institute
at UNSW Sydney is an infectious diseases research centre with over 400 full-time equivalent
staff, established in 1986 in response to the HIV epidemic. We have since become involved in a
wide range of infectious diseases and had a major involvement in various aspects of the global,
national and local response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Areas in which we were active include
viral geno -and pheno-typing and characterisation, establishment of longitudinal cohorts to
track the short and longer-term impact of infection, population surveillance, provision of
point-of-care testing to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities in remote and
regional settings, epidemiological analysis of the impact of interventions on case numbers and
transmission and mathematical modelling to predict vaccine effectiveness. We can provide a
full list of our publications on COVID-19 as needed. A number of our academic staff also served
on national expert groups, both ongoing and ad hoc, that were asked to provide high level
advice to government on various aspects of pandemic response.

Based on these various experiences, we offer the following recommendations to the review,
with a primary focus on the role of research and its interface with governmental decision足
making and program implementation.

     1.   Establish open, expert-driven processes to compile and synthesise scientific
          evidence:

What happened during the pandemic: Scientific evidence synthesized using widely agreed
techniques is a key input for the development and implementation of health policy. A flood of
scientific information emerged on key aspects of SARS-CoV-2, including occurrence,
transmission, health outcomes, treatment and vaccine impact. Much of this information came
in the form of preprints that had not been peer-reviewed. Evidence syntheses were
undertaken by many organisations and individuals, including several resourced and set up by
the Australian Government. Some of the publicly funded synthesis mechanisms were open and
transparent, including the National COVID-19 Clinical Evidence Taskforce based at Monash
University (see https://research.monash.edu/en/projects/national-covid-19-clinical-evidence-
taskforce). Others such as the National COVID Health and Research Advisory
(https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/about-us/leadership-and-governance/committees/national-
covid-19-health-and-research-advisory-committee) operated in a much more constrained
manner, with agendas and reports not made available beyond a very limited recipient list.
Across the many initiatives there was massive duplication of effort as well as gaps and
inconsistencies in the outputs of the various syntheses.

Recommendation for improvement: (a) Identify broad areas in which urgent evidence
syntheses may be required in a pandemic emergency, (b) Designate transparent, resourced
mechanisms for undertaking syntheses in these areas, potentially involving the new Australian
Centre for Disease Control (ACDC) in collaboration with recognised experts (c) Publish in a



Kirby Institute
Level 6, Wallace Wurth Building, UNSW SYDNEY NSW 2052 AUSTRALIA
T +61 (2) 9385 0900 | E info@kirby.unsw.edu.au | kirby.unsw.edu.au | ABN 57 195 873 179
publicly accessible forum regular updates on the agendas, methods and outcomes of the
syntheses.

    2.       Minimise barriers to developing and accessing key data sets

What happened during the pandemic: There was an urgent need for a wide variety of real足
time data sets to track the pandemic across the Australian population, monitor interventions
and their impact, and predict the outcomes of policy options. There was also a need for
integration across these diverse sets of data. Many of these data sets required new resources
and collection processes. The governmental processes for determining methodologies and
awarding contracts were often via professional consulting companies under broad service
contracts, and not always subject to expert scrutiny, so may not have led to optimal systems
and outcomes. Other issues included diverse approaches to collection and use of data across
jurisdictions, restrictions on access to data sets that seemed to go well beyond the obvious
requirements of individual privacy protection, and difficulties in linking the different datasets.

Recommendation for improvement: (a) Develop a data strategy, potentially via the ACDC, that
designates broad areas in which urgent data collection would be required in a pandemic
emergency, (b) Identify partnership arrangements, potentially coordinated by the ACDC, for
developing protocols and procedures, with associated budgets, to address data collection, (c)
As appropriate, undertake pilot projects to develop the proposed methods during inter足
pandemic periods, (d) For each data set, make access available in real time to suitably qualified
research groups, under conditions related to publication and other dissemination of findings,
(e) Design an a-priori format that facilitates the integration of diverse datasets. We note that
the Kirby Institute's long-term role in compiling and analysing national HIV data sets, with high-
level community and government input into regular reporting and other forms of
dissemination, provides a strong model for such arrangements.

    3.   Minimise barriers for accessing biological specimens for analysis by suitably
         credentialled laboratories

What happened during the pandemic: A range of public and private laboratories at the
jurisdictional level were the primary recipient of routine specimens collected for SARS-CoV-2
diagnosis. Specimens of public health importance were forwarded to designated laboratories
at jurisdictional level, and hospitals had access to various specimens from admitted patients.
Genomics surveillance networks were established to share information on viral sequences.
 Meanwhile, research laboratories around the country developed techniques of value on
characterising circulating viral sub-types and strains and understanding their properties but did
not always have access to relevant specimens in a timely manner. The limitations were often
due to differences in both willingness and ability to share viral isolates, sometimes constrained
by various pieces of legislation or their interpretation. Biobanking and specimen access
procedures have been effectively established for some infectious agents, including HIV but
were not available in real time for SARS-CoV-2.

Recommendation for improvement: (a) Establish biobanking arrangements that allow
designated, pre-qualified public health, diagnostic and research laboratories to gain access to
relevant specimens in real time, without compromising relevant public health functions, b)
review the intent of acts that limited the safe sharing of viral swabs and isolates at
jurisdictional and cross-jurisdictional level.




                                                                                             Page | 2
    4.   Ensure that Australia makes optimal contributions to the search for therapeutic
         strategies

What happened during the pandemic: The clinical trial response during the initial phase of the
COVID-19 pandemic was disorganized and disconnected from the Australian health care
system. Unlike what happened in the development of therapeutic guidelines for COVID-19,
there was inadequate utilisation of Australia's considerable clinical infectious disease and
clinical research expertise. Furthermore, a highly contentious issue that emerged with the
pandemic was the choice of agents that should be considered for therapeutic trials and other
forms of research into treatment. It was clear even at the time that some of the proposed
agents were highly speculative (ivermectin, BCG and hydroxychloroquine for example), and
that Australian clinical attention and resources should have been directed down pathways that
were more likely to yield fruitful outcomes. However, multiple funding sources, some of them
well outside the usual mechanisms for supporting therapeutic research, were quite influential
in steering clinical sites and networks in these unhelpful directions. On the other hand, we
missed the opportunity early in the pandemic to participate in some international trials of
agents that had a better evidence base in their conception. The international REMAP-CAP
network on treatment for community-acquired pneumonia had a strong Australian element to
its leadership and was a substantial exception due to its well-established adaptive
methodology and pre-approved clinical sites. Existing, externally-funded international
networks with Australian sites, such as INSIGHT were under-utilised, while new and inevitably
fragile networks were established at a time of extreme stress on the health care system. The
relatively low number of cases in Australia through 2020 and early 2021 was of course a public
health plus, but impacted local study enrolment and opportunities for Australian sites and
patients to contribute to international studies were missed. This was subsequently addressed
by the addition of Australian clinical research sites to the currently active global
INSIGHT/STRIVE network (Strategies and Treatments for Respiratory Infections and Viral
Emergencies) through MRFF funding in 2022 ( https://clinicaltrials.gov/studv/NCT05605093)
but was too little too late.

Recommendation for improvement: (a) Establish a high-level technical group on priorities for
clinical research in the time of pandemic emergencies with the ability to advise on both large-
scale national initiatives, and opportunities for international trial participation, (b) Ensure
participation in international pandemic preparedness clinical trial networks to enable rapid
mobilisation of sites and patient recruitment, (c) Establish reciprocal agreements between
regulatory and governance bodies for review and approval of protocols that transcend
jurisdictional (state and international) boundaries, (d) Provide ongoing support for Australian
involvement in the currently operating large scale pandemic preparedness networks (REMAP足
CAP and STRIVE) to continue operations in inter-pandemic periods, (e) Support more
Australian clinical sites that are prepared to follow the advice of the national strategic group
referred to above to engage in research initiatives and embed research activities in daily
clinical management.



Prepared by: Professors John Kaldor, Anthony Kelleher, Greg Dore, Gail Matthews and Deborah
Cromer, Kirby Institute, UNSW Sydney




                                                                                           Page | 3
