                                    COVID-19 RESPONSE INQUIRY




I write in submission to the above to express my dissatisfaction with this current Federal
Governments failure to carry out its promise to hold a Royal Commission into Covid-19 responses,
and that the inquiry they propose does not include the State Premiers' actions. Further the people
doing the investigating, are the ones that were the ones pushing the vaccines, mandates and
lockdowns, etc.

A full Royal Commission must be held into the following:

1. Vaccine procurement and the secret vaccine contracts.

2. Vaccine mandates which were totally illegal and the pressure applied by State and Federal
Government on businesses to apply them. The lack of informed consent and applied coercion must
be fully investigated. It flies in the face of the Nuremburg Code and the Australian Immunisation
Handbook.

3. A full investigation into vaccine injuries and deaths. This would include the fraudulent and
repetitive claims of 'safe and effective' by politicians and media and include the gaslighting by
politicians and medical professionals of those injured and the families of those killed.

4. A full investigation across all states of mask mandates and lockdowns. Included in this, at the very
least, should be an investigation into the detriment to the mental and physical health of the children
and public and to small businesses. Matters such as suicide, ongoing learning, the cruelty to the
elderly in 'care' must be included.
Shooting of unarmed, peaceful protestors, police attacking and harming unarmed persons for no
provocation, police breaking into homes and arresting people for posts on social media which
disagreed with the government.

5. Government misinformation in the media and the vilification and cancellation of highly qualified
doctors and scientists because they dared to question the safety and efficacy of the injections,
mandates or lockdowns.

6. The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety and the action with^^^^to silence doctors and
nurses and to deregister doctors who spoke out or gave exemptions.

7. Who decided to do the opposite of the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic
Influenza, which described why all the actions the Government did take would not work?

8. The National Cabinet meetings in relation to Covid-19 must be included in this Royal Commission
and revealed to the public.

9. Why were Politicians exempted from being vaccinated? Blood test proof of those politicians, past
and present, who claimed to have taken the injections must be carried out and made public as
proof.

10. An investigation into how pharmaceutical companies have funded the TGA, how much of an
incentive the TGA and politicians received to endorse the Covid-19 injections.
11. By whose authority were the cheap and effective treatments of Hydroxychloroquin and
Invermectin banned? Did they or their advisers receive incentives from the pharmaceutical
companies to do so?

12. Whose decision was it to ignore early treatment protocols discovered early in the pandemic, in
favour of leaving people to suffer at home until they could be put on ventilators, given life ending
treatments to kill them?

13. All politicians and bureaucrats (both Federal, State and Local) must declare if they are members
of the World Economic Forum, have received incentives from UN, WHO, GAVE, WEF to change
Australian laws surrounding control of Australian citizens.

14. Those who carry out the Royal Commission/lnquiry must not be the same people who
implemented the above atrocities. Independent investigators must be used and freedom to
interrogate persons who have left their positions and now reside overseas. Those persons must be
returned to Australia to face questions and consequences. Those damaged by the above actions
must also be given a voice in these proceedings.

All of the above findings must be made public and not hidden.
