                                                                                             goodstart ;
                                                                                             early     ;
                                                                                             iearning Z



COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel
COVID-19lnquiry@pmc.gov.au

Dear Panellists

Thank you for the opportunity to contribute to the Inquiry into the response to COVID-19. We welcome the
opportunity to express our gratitude to Australian governments for the financial and non-financial support
it provided to the early learning and care sector - and to children and families - but also to reflect on the
lessons to be learned for future responses.

Goodstart Early Learning (Goodstart) is Australia's largest not-for-profit social enterprise and Australia's
largest provider of early childhood education and care (ECEC), with 660+ centres located across every state
and territory, supporting more than 67,670 children from 56,800 families with a team of 15,639 employees.
As a not-for-profit social enterprise, our purpose is to ensure all Australia's children have the learning,
development and wellbeing outcomes they need for school and life.

For the ECEC sector, the COVID-19 pandemic reinforced two very important things:

    1) The ECEC sector is essential - keeping early learning services open during the pandemic was critical
       to support families working, especially health and other essential services, and for keeping children
       safe and supported, particularly children experiencing vulnerability and disadvantage.

    2) There is a lack of emergency and natural disaster provisions in legislation for ECEC services - as a
       sector reliant on attendance-based financing from families and government, the fragility of the
       sector's financial viability quickly became apparent as swathes of families started to withdraw their
       children and cancel enrolments.

When the lockdowns for the COVID-19 pandemic were first announced, families rapidly started to cancel
their ECEC enrolments for their children. The sector's financial viability was at risk and many providers
feared collapse. At Goodstart, we were especially concerned as we were not eligible for JobKeeper
payments when it was first announced, though eligibility criteria were later amended to ensure large
charities and non-profits could access this support.

The Australian Government extended welcome financial support to children, families and the ECEC sector
through two key mechanisms: a period of free ECEC was legislated for all children and families from 6 April
to 12 July 2020; and financial support was provided to the sector through mechanisms including the ECEC
Relief Package, the Transition Package, the Recovery Package and the Viability Support Package. This
support provided significant relief to the sector, though there were issues with implementation and
administrative burden associated with the payments. For some providers, the payments were inadequate
due to the calculation of support being based on a specified reference period that did not reflect actual
revenue during the period of support.




We’re for children, not for profit.
PO Box 10120, Adelaide Street, Brisbane Qld 4000
11800 222 543 f (07) 3020 3825 abn 69 139 967 794

                                                                                           goodstart.org.au
As a national provider, we also experienced the highly varied COVID responses implemented by State and
Territory Governments that impacted ECEC, including health advice and implementation in the ECEC
context, such as lockdowns and service closures, social distancing guidelines, definitions for essential
services - which often included schools but not ECEC, challenges associated with accessing necessary
health and personal protective equipment, including vaccines, and ensuring children experiencing
vulnerability or disadvantage were safe and supported. We continue to observe the longer term impacts of
the pandemic and extended periods of lockdowns and social isolation on young children and the ECEC
workforce.

We would welcome the opportunity to speak to you further about our experience of the COVID health and
non-health decisions and responses made by state, territory and federal governments. Attachment A
outlines a list of key themes we would like to discuss with the Inquiry Panel for their consideration. We
encourage you to speak to other key ECEC stakeholders and have provided a list of key representatives to
the Inquiry team, for consideration. Ideally, sector engagement would occur after mid-February, noting the
ECEC sector is currently responding to a number of inquiries and strategies, including the draft Productivity
Commission report (due 14 February 2024), the draft Early Years Strategy (due 7 February 2024) and the
ACCC Inquiry Final Report (expected early January 2024).

In the meantime, we invite you to read our Evidence and Insights paper on the COVID-19 response, 'From
fees to free and back again: What we learned.'

We look forward to discussing this with you further in February 2024.

Kind regards,




Dr Ros Baxter
Chief Executive Officer
G odstart Early Learning
ATTACHMENT A

Key themes on the impact of COVID-19 responses in the ECEC sector - for future discussion


We welcome the opportunity to meet with the Inquiry panel to discuss the following themes from the
experience of the ECEC sector during the COVID-19 pandemic:

    1) Sector financial viability and challenges with attendance-based financing and the associated lack of
       disaster and emergency provisions in legislation
   2)      The inflexibility of financing instruments to respond to an emerging crisis
   3)      That the ECEC sector is an essential service both for the economy and society
   4) ECEC is different from other parts of the economy and how this affected JobKeeper and COVID
      viability payments
   5)      Challenges in different State-based approaches to health advice and directions
   6) Challenges in securing appropriate health, hygiene and safety resources, eg PRE, COVID tests,
      COVID vaccines
   7) Appropriateness of National Cabinet decisions, including the different treatment of schools
      compared to ECEC, i.e. where ECEC was always deprioritised.
   8) COVID-19 vaccination policies and the impact on ECEC workforce and access, including Goodstart's
      decision to mandate the COVID vaccine for all staff nationally
