15 December 2023

To the Covid-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

Submission for the COVID 19 Response Inquiry

We are professional citizens who had the benefit of a relatively global perspective of the
COVID 19 pandemic and the responses to it. At the beginning of 2020, we were living as a
family in Hong Kong. We moved to Australia (via visits to Spain, the United Kingdom and
Croatia) in February 2022.

For us, the number of areas that need to be independently and honestly investigated are too
numerous to summarise in three pages. However, we have submitted below a necessarily
redacted and condensed summary of areas that we think need to be addressed.

Health and non-health responses

Lockdowns

Does the government acknowledge that science depends on the interrogation of
hypotheses? If so, on what basis were dissenting voices censored?

What scientific evidence was there that lockdowns would reduce overall mortality?

Why did the Australian authorities overturn decades of accumulated scientific knowledge, as
set out in the WHO's pandemic response pre-2020, and impose lockdowns on its healthy
citizens?

What assessment was there made as to the trade-offs? In terms of lack of schooling, mental
health, societal cohesion when loved ones were forbidden from seeing each other (even at
times of passing), indebtedness of the nation, future workforce participation, loss of trust in
institutions, societal divisions?

Why are we not investigating the huge amount of excess death in Australia since the
pandemic (/pandemic response)?

Does the government understand that model outputs are not the same as empirical,
scientific data?

Health advice

Why were citizens not advised to supplement with vitamins known to strengthen the
immune system (Vitamin D, C, zinc)? These vitamins have a materially zero downside with
significant upside.

Why were repurposed therapeutics so aggressively dismissed and then regulated away?
Especially those for which there was solid evidence of efficacy with minimal downside risk?
Why were people not encouraged to eat well, exercise outside and enjoy some sunshine?

Why were deaths with and from COVID 19 not more accurately delineated?

Given the statement from its founder (a Noble prize winner,^^^^^^^ that it should never

be used as a diagnostic tool, could we have a debate about the appropriateness of the PCR
test? How many cycles were used where and what was the correct level?

Presumably the government understood the risk stratification of the disease (by age, weight
and other underlying health conditions): why was this not communicated to the public?

Did the government assess mental health consequences, especially for the most vulnerable?

Vaccines

How do the Australian authorities justify overriding the Nuremburg Code by coercing on its
electorate a novel technology vaccine under an Emergency Use Approval made by
pharmaceutical companies shielded against liability claims?

How did the TGA become comfortable with the long-term safety of these novel vaccines?

Is it really true that the Australian authorities did not know that the trial protocols did not
test for transmission? This was public knowledge in Q4 2020.

Why was post-vaccination health not more closely monitored, recorded and data analysed?

Can the authorities please provide the scientific basis for dismissing natural immunity?

Responsibilities of the Commonwealth Government and the role of state and territory
governments.

The Commonwealth Government and the State Governments are there to serve its people.
Its primary role is to preserve the rights and freedoms of the individuals living within their
borders.

These authorities should never misuse the "democratic" power delegated to them by its
people in order to impose illegitimate power and limitations on those same people.

The Commonwealth Government and the state governments' responses to COVID 19
demonstrated unequivocally that those authorities have a different understanding of
legitimate power, their position and purpose in our society.

We need to have a national conversation about the role of the state in our lives. A genuinely
truth-seeking inquiry, open to all lines of argument and evidence, into the responses to
COVID 19 would be a non-negotiable starting point for what is a societally critical moment
for Australia.
Thank you for the opportunity to be part of this process although the timing of this call for
submissions and extremely short period allowed for responses already speaks volumes as to
your regard to public input.

Regards,

Kate McNicholl
