  duh* , National
               Rural Health                                                           Healthy and sustainable rural, regional
               Alliance                                                            and remote communities across Australia.



15 December 2023

Ms Robyn Kruk AO
Chair, COVID-19 Response Inquiry
C/-Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet
PO Box 6500
Canberra ACT 2600

Dear Ms Kruk

The National Rural Health Alliance (the Alliance) welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the COVID-19
Response Inquiry. The Alliance is the peak body for rural health in Australia.

The Alliance comprises 50 Members1, and our vision is for healthy and sustainable rural, remote and regional
(hereafter rural) communities across Australia. The Alliance is focused on advancing rural health reform to achieve
equitable health outcomes for rural communities, the 7 million people residing outside our major cities. Our
members include health consumers, healthcare professionals, service providers, health and medical educators,
researchers, medical and clinical students and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health sector.

I would like to take the opportunity to raise a few key points for you to consider in your deliberations for this Inquiry.
I note you are looking for concise submissions, hence I will limit our response to key themes the Alliance has noted
from our members and other stakeholders. Our rurally focussed content relates collectively to the following terms
of reference for this Inquiry:

         Key health response measures (e.g. across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such
         as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities and public health messages).

         Broader health support for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns (for example, mental health
         and suicide prevention support and access to screening and other preventive health measures).
Personal Protective Equipment

    •    At times, personal protective equipment (PPE) was in short supply during the pandemic, and more was
         needed for rural students. Universities were forced to access their own PPE. Universities did not have
         access to distributors and, therefore, bought PPE that was not always approved in the clinical setting or did
         not fit appropriately. Many general practices could not access extra PPE for students, and it was expensive
         to buy.
    •    All students and staff needed to undertake mask fit testing - that is, determination of the mask that fits
         best on the face to protect COVID-19. There were delays in students being fit tested as some universities
         did not have facilities and had to rely on the acute care sector for testing. Some students missed placement
         due to delays with testing.
    •         Pharmacists also experienced PPE supply issues.
    •    In future pandemics, timely and affordable access to PPE by all health professionals in all parts of the
         health sector, including students, should be considered.
COVID-19 vaccinations

    •    Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Practitioners and the REDS played a vital role in the vaccination
         program during the pandemic. The utilisation of these health practitioners to provide vaccination in
         communities was key to the high uptake and protection of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
         communities, particularly in remote areas.


1 Please see www.ruralhealth orgj j/about/memberbod, ?s for details


     T 02 6285 4660       F 02 6285 4670       E nrha@ruralhealth.org.au       W ruralhealth.org.au   0 * NRHAIIiance
                         PO Box 280 Deakin West ACT 2600              10 Campion Street Deakin ACT 2600
                                  ABN 68 480 848 412     ACN 620 779 606       ARBN 620 779 606
  duh* , National
              Rural Health                                                     Healthy and sustainable rural, regional
              Alliance                                                      and remote communities across Australia.



    •   The reduced workforce in rural locations means that in a pandemic or other disaster situations, all health
        professionals must be able to work to the full scope of practice. Policy settings and program guidelines
        must ensure health professionals with the relevant training - such as nurses, nurse practitioners and
        pharmacists - can deliver appropriately and equitably funded services that fall within their scope and
        have access to adequate supplies. It is essential that regulatory or bureaucratic barriers in this context do
        not constrain practice.
Rural Medical and Health Student Placements

    •   During the pandemic, Universities and hospitals cancelled short clinical placements for medical students.
        Teaching of rural content was completed online. This resulted in students needing more clinical exposure to
        rural practice. Whilst the physical placement itself is not essential, it does give students valuable insight
        into rural practice (what a rural general practitioner (GP) does compared to urban GPs) and an
        understanding of the depth of knowledge all health practitioners need to work in rural communities,
        especially during a time of great health stressors. These placements also provide training in how rural
        healthcare workers work in multidisciplinary teams and rely on each other's skill to provide best-practice
        care. Short placements are extremely importanti as this is a time when students consider undertaking
        longer placement placements in their later years of study, indeed a future career in rural Australia.
    •   Medical students in years four and five tended to stay onsite in rural locations during the pandemic, with
        their placements extended. They became more embedded into healthcare teams that were sometimes
        short of staff. Some medical students worked as part of the surge workforce on weekend.
    •   Overall, many medical students on rural placements fared better, as most were transitioned to longer
        placements, whereas their urban colleagues were often refused placement opportunities. Students
        required more social support, particularly when they were prevented from going home to see family and
        friends because of lockdowns.
    •   Feedback suggests that while medical students may have fared better, nursing and allied health student
        placements in rural locations may have needed to be better supported.
    •   The learnings are that well-supported students across all health disciplines can benefit from, and be of
        benefit to, rural communities during a pandemic. Policy settings should support health students of all
        disciplines to have their rural placements continued during pandemic situations.
Staffing Issues

    •   Rural hospitals have limited staff, and often experience workforce shortages. During the pandemic, it
        difficult than usual to fill rosters. Contributing factors included the movement of staff back to metropolitan
        areas and the limitation of staff movement on a transient basis, both due to border restrictions and
        lockdown policies, along with the furloughing of available staff due to COVID-19 exposure and illness itself.
    •   Many nurses worked extra shifts and or double shifts. Locum doctors were in short supply, and, as with all
        locum arrangements, there can be increased tensions with local staff about the daily rates earned by
        locums compared to existing and local health professionals. This was exacerbated during the pandemic.
    •   This is amplified in rural areas where there is a maldistribution of workforce, and evidence clearly
        demonstrate that selecting rural students and/or providing positive rural training experiences makes rural
        practice exponentially seven times more likely.
    •   Some medical and health staff living and working close to the borders of states and territories faced issues
        of being able to cross the borders or facilities for work. Federal, state and jurisdictional agreements and
        understanding need recognition and management before any future pandemic or disaster.
    •   Workforce and staffing issues are an area that requires recognition, careful consideration and collaboration
        between federal and state governments and communities to ensure any unintended consequences of
        policy decisions are managed appropriately and in a timely manner.
    •   The pandemic taught us the importance of "growing your own" workforce - both for Australia as a whole
        and in rural areas specifically. Due to international border restrictions, Australia could not rely on
        recruiting health professionals from other countries. It became clear that ensuring health professions are
        an attractive and supported field of study and practice for Australians is vital for our future.


    T 02 6285 4660     F 02 6285 4670     Enrha@ruralhealth.org.au     Wruralhealth.org.au    O* NRHAIIiance
                      PO Box 280 Deakin West ACT 2600        10 Campion Street Deakin ACT 2600
                               ABN 68 480 848 412   ACN 620 779 606    ARBN 620 779 606
             t National
              Rural Health                                                      Healthy and sustainable rural, regional
              Alliance                                                       and remote communities across Australia.



Telehealth

    •         The ability to offer subsidised telehealth options was a major advancement during the pandemic.
    •    The Alliance is pleased to see that telehealth is now more readily available for rural people via Medicare
         but notes that telehealth options should remain a supplement to, not a replacement for, face-to-face
         services in rural locations.
    •    Great agility was shown by health professions and health service funders (including the MBS and private
         health insurers), to convert services to telehealth where appropriate and provide funding support.
    •    Further work should continue to improve telehealth and virtual healthcare provision by rural health
         professionals, improving access to services while ensuring metropolitan providers do not "cream" easier
         online services that would otherwise be provided by local and main rural health providers. This would
         disjoint the patient journey and record keeping, leaving the more difficult and after-hours care for the
         rural practitioner.
 efinition of essential workers

    •    Early in the pandemic, there was some confusion about whether allied health professionals were
         considered essential workers, which created considerable issues.
    •    In future pandemics the implications of policy settings on the entire health workforce should be
         thoroughly considered. This requires close collaboration between the Australian government and
         state/territory governments.
Consequences of delays in access to non-emergency care

    •    Post-pandemic, the Royal Flying Doctor Service reported retrieving a higher proportion of high-acuity
         patients. Inadequate access to primary healthcare during the pandemic is thought to have deteriorated
         some rural people's health status.
    •    The negative consequences of reduced access to care should be thoroughly considered in future pandemic
         planning, especially in rural areas which already have existing inequities in access and health status.

Thank you for your consideration of these key points. I would be happy to provide further background or
information required. I can be contacted at |              or ^^^^^^^M@ruralhealth org.au.

Yours sincerely,




Susi Tegen
Chief Executive
National Rural Health Alliance
Ph^^^^M
www.ruralhealth.org.au




    T 02 6285 4660     F 02 6285 4670        E nrha@ruralhealth.org.au   W ruralhealth.org.au   O * NRHAIIiance
                       PO Box 280 Deakin West ACT 2600         10 Campion Street Deakin ACT 2600
                                  ABN 68 480 848 412   ACN 620 779 606   ARBN 620 779 606
