            The Pharmacy
            Guild of Australia




SUBMISSION

Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet: COVID-19
Response Inquiry




 15 December 2023




National Secretariat


P:             F:         E:
www.guild.org.au
ABOUT THE GUILD
The Pharmacy Guild of Australia (the Guild) is the national peak organisation representing community
pharmacy. It supports community pharmacy in its role of delivering quality health outcomes for all
Australians. It strives to promote, maintain, and support community pharmacies as the appropriate
providers of primary healthcare to the community through optimum therapeutic use of medicines,
medicines management and related services. Community pharmacies are the most frequently accessed
and most accessible health destination, with over 358 million individual patient visits annually and the vast
majority of pharmacies open after-hours, including on weekends1.

Owned by pharmacists, community pharmacies exist in well-distributed and accessible locations, and
often operate over extended hours, seven days a week in urban, regional, rural and remote areas. They
provide timely, convenient, and affordable access to the quality and safe provision of medicines and
healthcare services by pharmacists who are highly skilled and qualified health professionals.
88% of people in metropolitan and regional areas have access to at least 1 pharmacy within a 2.5km
radius.2

The network of almost 6,000 equitably distributed community pharmacies plays a pivotal role in the
delivery of the National Medicines Policy, by ensuring timely access to safe, effective, and affordable
medicines under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) for all Australians. Quality Use of Medicines
is an important pillar of Australian National Medicines Policy, with community pharmacy having a vital role
in the prevention and treatment of communicable and chronic diseases.



SUPPORTING INFORMATION
Recognising the request for submissions to be concise and noting the Guild has responded to a number
of COVID-related consultations since the pandemic began, we have responded only to the questions of
relevance to community pharmacy with the key points. As the panel has indicated it will be reviewing
responses to other consultations, we have attached a link to our previous submissions and relevant
position statements for further detail if required.



        0
Submission to PM&C
                                     Fl
                               Submission to              Submission to             Position Statement
                                                                                                                    Fl
                                                                                                               ANAO_COVID
Consultation - Suppoi       Productivity Commiss       consultation on futun       COVID-19-Point-of-C      vaccine rollout respor




 Guild Submission to
                                   F
                              Productivity              Guild Submission to           Senate Committee       Submission on Role
Senate Inquiry Long C      Commission Apr 2021         ANAO Audit - Expans           May 2020_ Australian   and Functions of an P




1 PBS Date of Supply, Guild Digest 2022
2 The Pharmacy Guild of Australia 2022


Pharmacy Guild of Australia response to consultation: Dept of PM&C Covid19 Response Inquiry                                     p 2 of 7
GUILD RESPONSES TO TERMS OF REFERENCE
TOR 1. Governance including the role of the Commonwealth
Government, responsibilities of state and territory governments,
national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection
Principal Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to
COVID-19.
     •     Communication between Commonwealth regulators and stakeholders was essential. Examples
           include:

                o     Regular updates for health stakeholders by the Department of Health with opportunity for
                      stakeholders to raise questions

                o     TGA working with the Guild and other stakeholders to manage medicine supply issues,
                      including establishing a working group that met every week early into the pandemic

                o     Digitalised health networks provided the means for communication and enabled
                      temporary non-face-to-face services where needed e.g. pharmacists were able to provide
                      Home Medicines Review services by videoconference

                o     Establishing a Rapid Antigen Test Concessional Access Program3 through community
                      pharmacy for concessional patients increased the testing and reporting capability of the
                      public

The following constrained the ability of community pharmacies to administer COVID-19 vaccines:

     •     Delay in the implementation of regulations and policies because of inconsistency across the
           States and Territories. This not only affected patient access to services which varied according to
           their location, but was confusing for health providers, particularly in border locations.

     •    We note that National Cabinet led Australia's regulatory responses to the COVID-19 pandemic.
          Any inter-governmental collaboration in the future should be systemised to promote consistent
          policy, regulation and programs. This was particularly the case in border locations which raised
          issues such as:
               o Difficulty in travelling to work due to different definitions of COVID-19 contacts such as
                   Close or Casual contacts.
               o Difficulty to provide cross-border services e.g., fulfilling service requirements for
                   residential care located across a border
               o Difficulty for delivery of pharmaceuticals across borders

     •     The community pharmacy network should be adequately represented through the Guild in
           Commonwealth committees and advisory bodies during future pandemics and shocks, to support
           better decision-making for policy recommendations that affect community pharmacies and their
           patients and the supply of medicines and pharmacy services in Australia.




3 Rapid Antigen Test Concessional Access Program - Easy Read | Australian Government Department of Health and Aged Care


Pharmacy Guild of Australia response to consultation: Dept of PM&C Covid19 Response Inquiry                         p 3 of 7
TOR 2. Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19
vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal
protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
messaging).
     •    The extension of expanded Continued Dispensing arrangements covering the whole PBS/RPBS
          General Schedule that had been implemented by the Commonwealth and States and Territories
          in response to the 2019/20 bushfires. This allowed urgent supply of prescription medicines as a
          pharmaceutical benefit by a pharmacist in the absence of a prescription and helped ensure
          continuity of treatment for patients who could not readily attend a prescriber to renew their
          prescription. This operated for over two years without problem but has been significantly wound
          back. While COVID has been deprioritised, the reduced Continued Dispensing arrangements no
          longer recognise potential emergency supply needs in the absence of a prescription for people
          with conditions such as epilepsy, glaucoma, Parkinson's Disease or depression. The risk
          increases with people displaced due to disasters such as floods, fires or cyclones. The
          Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) reviewed Continued Dispensing
          arrangements at its May 2023 intra-cycle meeting in response to a submission from the Guild to
          permanently restore the previous emergency arrangements but this was not accepted. A joint
          letter from the Guild and other stakeholders (see below) was also sent to Minister Butler in Feb
          2023. As the PBAC discussion was not open to public consultation, interested stakeholders were
          not able to provide input.


               Joint letter to
            Minister Butler re Cor



     •    The recognition by the Commonwealth that telehealth consultations required arrangements (i.e.,
          image-based prescriptions) to enable dispensing and claiming as a valid prescription when
          patients could not readily obtain a hard-copy prescription. This was discontinued on 31 March
          2022 for community-based prescribing with the increased availability of electronic prescribing.

     •     An exemption by the Commonwealth for patient signatures for PBS and RPBS prescriptions and
           NDSS items to minimise the risk of COVID-19 transmission between pharmacy staff and patients.

     •     The National Medicines Stockpile is in place to assist during a crisis. Personal Protective
           Equipment (PPE) was supplied from the National Medicines Stockpile via Primary Health
           Networks (PHNs). The problem with this arrangement was that supplies were not standardised
           and PHNs demonstrated a lack of understanding of non-GP health centres. There was variability
           between regions and overall, pharmacies had difficulty accessing PPE for staff as PHNs
           expected pharmacies to access PPE commercially which was not applied to other health
           providers. Nor did PHNs always recognise pharmacy assistants as frontline healthcare workers
           and pharmacies were often under supplied to meet its workforce needs.
     •     The introduction by the Commonwealth of a Home Medicines Service supporting the home
           delivery of PBS and RPBS medicines and other pharmaceuticals, ensured people who were in
           quarantine, isolation, or avoiding public exposure could access their medicines.4
     •     Despite a late start for community pharmacy involvement, there was recognition by all States and
           Territories and the Commonwealth for pharmacists to administer COVID-19 vaccines for adults
           and children.



4 https://www.health.qov.au/sites/default/files/documents/2020/03/covid-19-national-health-plan-home-medicines-services-
information-for-consumers.pdf


Pharmacy Guild of Australia response to consultation: Dept of PM&C Covid19 Response Inquiry                                p 4 of 7
     •    The Commonwealth expedited the listing of oral COVID treatments (i.e., Lagevrio™ and
          Paxlovid™) onto the PBS5 for high-risk patients. At costs of approximately $1000 a pack, this
          ensures affordable access to eligible patients. Concurrently, arrangements were put in place to
          encourage community pharmacies to stock these treatments to minimise delays in filling a
          prescription. This was achieved by guaranteeing the ability for a pharmacy to return expired stock
          if unused.6 While useful to enhance timely access to the treatment, demand for the medication
          varied by location. This arrangement still left some pharmacies holding thousands of dollars'
          worth of stock for an extended period without any return on investment.

TOR 3. Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19
and/or lockdowns (for example mental health and suicide prevention
supports, and access to screening and other preventive health
measures).
     •     MBS-subsidised mental health-related services were provided across all jurisdictions. The Guild
           supported this initiative.

     •     There was recognition by the Therapeutic Goods Administration for community pharmacies to not
           only supply COVID-19 rapid antigen tests, but to conduct point-of-care testing for the public.
           There were changes to Commonwealth, State and Territory legislation to enable community
           pharmacies to substitute medicines (including PBS and RPBS medicines) according to a Serious
           Scarcity Notification7 published by the TGA to manage medicine supply disruptions.

TOR 4. International policies to support Australians at home and
abroad (including with regard to international border closures, and
securing vaccine supply deals with international partners for domestic
use in Australia).
     •          No comment

TOR 5. Support for industry and businesses (for example responding to
supply chain and transport issues, addressing labour shortages, and
support for specific industries).
     •     Workforce issues were not recognised or adequately supported. This was particularly critical for
           community pharmacy as an essential service which under state law, requires a pharmacist to be
           in attendance in order to open to the public. There were labour shortages in the community
           pharmacy sector as a result of quarantine regulations, as well as an impact on medicine
           manufacturing.

                o    As one of the health services open directly to the public, pharmacy staff experienced
                     increased anxiety and burnout, made worse by the escalating abuse and vitriol from the
                     public (including from anti-vaxxers), which in some cases deteriorated into assault8.

     •     In late 2020 the Regional Recovery Small Business Support Program offered specialised small
           business financial counsellors to help rural and regional businesses navigate the path to


5 Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) | Recommendations made out-of-session by the PBAC between meetings; (Lagevrio Feb
2022 & Paxlovid Mar 2022).
6 COVID-19 Oral Treatments (health.qov.au)
7 https://www.tqa.qov.au/serious-shortaqe-medicine-substitution-notices
8 Pharmacist injured in in-store assault | Pharmacy Daily


Pharmacy Guild of Australia response to consultation: Dept of PM&C Covid19 Response Inquiry                        p 5 of 7
           recovery. The program made it easier for eligible businesses to access immediate support and to
           receive ongoing assistance in developing long-term plans to maintain their viability.9

     •    Strategies are needed to build workforce resilience, whilst ensuring the public's safety and
          welfare. Regulations are needed to monitor counterfeit products.

     •     Recognition by the Commonwealth for community pharmacies to substitute medicines as a
           pharmaceutical benefit where eligible according to a Serious Scarcity Notification10 published by
           the TGA helped manage medicine supply disruptions and avoided people having their treatment
           interrupted with potential negative health consequences.

     •     The high demand from the public for non-evidence-based treatments (e.g., ivermectin,
           hydroxychloroquine) risked supply disruptions for people who used these treatment for other
           conditions. Delays in restricting supply of these medicines must be addressed in future situations
           by ensuring the regulators (in this case the DoHAC and the TGA) work early with key
           stakeholders to identify potential risks and have mitigation strategies in place.

TOR 6. Financial support for individuals (including income support
payments).
     •          No comment

TOR 7. Community supports (across early childhood education and
care, higher education, housing and homelessness measures, family
and domestic violence measures in areas of Commonwealth
Government responsibility).
     •          No comment

TOR 8. Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of
particular populations (including across genders, age groups, socio­
economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First
Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and
linguistically diverse communities).
     •     When there were changes to eligibility and availability of COVID vaccines, there was public
           messaging prior to informing the health professional workforce. Health workers were often
           unprepared for the changes the public had heard through the media. This caused significant
           confusion and frustration for both pharmacy staff and patients. Changes in eligibility or supply
           arrangements must be communicated in advance with health providers so they are prepared and
           able to manage the changed arrangements and public enquiries.

     •     Vaccination rollout process and awareness campaigns should include targeted messaging to
           ensure they reach the most vulnerable age groups and populations, and those with health
           concerns who are at high risk of complications from developing the virus.

     •     Community pharmacists and pharmacy staff should be leveraged in future pandemics to
           communicate vaccine messaging to “hard-to-reach” populations such as culturally and
           linguistically diverse (CALD) patients, because pharmacies have frequent contact with them.


9 Pharmacy Guild of Australia, Help for small regional businesses, https://www.quild.orq.au/news-
events/news/forefront/v10n18/help-for-small-reqional-businesses
10 https://www.tqa.qov.au/serious-shortaqe-medicine-substitution-notices


Pharmacy Guild of Australia response to consultation: Dept of PM&C Covid19 Response Inquiry              p 6 of 7
     •     Need to consider any special care arrangements. As an example, many people with opioid
           dependence receiving opioid dependence treatment require daily dosing either under direct
           supervision of a pharmacist (requiring attendance at a pharmacy) or the provision of limited take­
           away doses. During the pandemic, arrangements were put in place to increase take-away dosing
           and special home deliveries had to be implemented as delivery staff needed to be protected from
           potential hold-ups and treatments could not be left unattended.

     •     Digital enhancement to enable health practitioners to communicate effectively, efficiently and
           confidentially with each other.

     •     Enhance access to treatments such as oral COVID treatments by enabling pharmacists to assess
           and prescribe as a pharmaceutical benefit according to a clinical protocol. Pharmacists in
           comparable countries (Canada, New Zealand, United States) had the authority to prescribe
           COVID anti-virals which expedited patient access under the supervision of a medicines expert.
           Below is a Guild Brief that was shared with the Minister's Office in August 2022.



              20220818 Guild
           Brief_Pharmacist Pres


     •     Identify critical front line health workers that need access to support and resources (e.g., PPE),
           including non-clinical staff such as pharmacy assistants.

     •     The Commonwealth must adequately remunerate practitioners for their services and
           remuneration should be according to the activity rather than the professional. As an example, all
           practitioners should receive the same remuneration for administering a vaccine.

     •    Prompt access to the oral COVID treatments is essential for efficacy of the medication. Current
          state and territory and Commonwealth laws are restricting patient access to COVID treatments.
          These Prescription Only items require assessment by an authorised prescriber to issue a
          prescription for a pharmacist to dispense and claim as a pharmaceutical benefit. Resources are
          available to assist with assessing risks and interactions and prescribers frequently contact
          pharmacists to check a patient's safety profile before issuing a prescription. Pharmacists could
          readily assess people and prescribe these medicines according to a protocol to provide patients
          with easier and faster access to treatment.

     •     There was little support for essential businesses to respond when a staff member had COVID. As
           an example, as an essential business, pharmacies had to close and arrange for decontamination
           before they could re-open. There was little or no financial support available and little in the way of
           resources to explain recommended procedures. Ideally, funding and resources for small
           businesses such as pharmacies would be available at a Commonwealth level to enable the
           pharmacy to re-open as quickly as possible.




Pharmacy Guild of Australia response to consultation: Dept of PM&C Covid19 Response Inquiry                 p 7 of 7
