SUBMISSION - Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Inquiry

                                                                               Worker (retired) ... 14/12/2023

In my opinion I find this Inquiry lacking in substance and do not consider that a Commonwealth
Inquiry would be serious since it excludes the actions taken by the States and Territories that also
constitutes the Commonwealth of Australia.
Nor do I feel that a period of one week for submissions to be made is appropriate for people to
respond in a fair and equitable manner. It was presented without any warning - and in my opinion by
stealth - demonstrating to me that this Inquiry is only to be tokenistic in nature and that not many
submissions will be made within this timeframe.
I am yet to be proven wrong for this opinion and duly hope that all of our submissions will be
addressed in a professional manner, and that I be proven wrong.


PREAMBLE
This pandemic from March 2020 to the present time, since vaccine mandates still remain in place in
our country, demonstrates to me that the government gave itself wide-sweeping powers where the
people in our country who pay hard earned taxes for government jobs were not consulted, nor were
decisions agreed upon by them.
Instead, the government went full speed ahead, based on what it calls science that is yet to be
proven correct or incorrect. In fact, Covid-19 was never isolated, in my opinion it was the flu
rebranded. From my own research, I found that prior to this pandemic Covid-19 "vaccines" were
patented by relevant corporations ... which leads to my questioning the whole and real purpose of
this pandemic.
Needless to say there is much to review and learn from this event that will show how the law in
relation to Human Rights is to be respected and put into better perspective.
I now refer to the relevant Terms of Reference.

Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of State and Territory governments,
national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian
Health Protection Principle Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to Covid-19.



There are many issues that were not addressed which led to the over riding of the Rule of Law, along
with the violation of Human Rights. Some of these points are herewith:


    1.   Refusing to allow people to return home from interstate and even overseas during this crisis
         led to their loss of faith in the government. Extended lockdowns also eroded this faith in
         government. It also led to people becoming depressed, perpetrators of domestic violence
         and mentally unwell due to being locked down within their homes, also due to limited
         sunlight and social interaction, where people were only allowed to travel minimal distances,
         were unable to be with family members out of their areas and visit dying family members in
         hospitals etc.
    2.   The National Cabinet which combines both State and Federal governments has no basis in
         the Constitution and undermines the Rule of Law which includes emergency rules that
         preclude decision making plus transparency to protect citizens in these moments.
    3.   The National Cabinet operated in secrecy and only served to lessen public confidence and
         trust in the government.
    4. The Prime Minister having given himself the right to have a number of ministerial positions
         with no one objecting at all is dangerous where power was allowed to be in the hands of one
         person, which also makes a mockery of the system we live within.
    5.   The Federal Government by silence and its washing of hands over the whole matter
         consented to border closures and denial of medical interventions whereby people died from
         lack of medical care. By these inactions, it encouraged a yawning divide between the people
         in regards to vaccinations - who can and who cannot have medical treatment, who can or
         cannot be involved in various activities, and so on.
    6.   The Federal Government by its silence supported State (and Territory) level mandates to
         give provisionally approved experimental gene therapy to citizens which blatantly violates
         Human Rights and breaches the Nuremberg Code, leading to the government assuming total
         power over people's lives. Yet this provisional emergency approved experimental therapy is
         still in place. This horror should have been nipped in the bud, but also tells people that their
         lives are meaningless to this government.

Key Health response measures (eg: across Covid-19 vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal
protective equipment (PRE), quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).



    1.   The banning, dismissal and gaslighting of those who knew that cheaper and effective
         treatments which were known to reduce hospitalisations and deaths when used early in
         accordance with human levels of treatment (Hydroxycholoroquine and Ivermectin), shows
         that there were invested interests in other therapies such as the provisional experimental
         Covid-19 vaccine which in effect created an unprecedented worse outcome for those having
         these vaccines.
    2.   However in knowing that these abovementioned treatments were somewhat effective,
         these two alternative treatments were banned by the government and other health
         officials, which makes them responsible for a lot of deaths and injuries that occurred and
         highly likely due to this Covid-19 MRNA vaccine.
    3.   In dismissing these safe and effective treatments it led to the emergency approval of the
         Covid-19 MRNA based therapy, and the public was informed that there was no alternative to
         combat this dreadful condition. This leads to the question of what were the real reasons for
         this approach by regulatory bodies and other professionals in this matter.
    4. The use of PRE and masks, which is often used in a hospital environment against infection
         and other diseases, was rolled out to the public to replicate. These apparatus were not
         effective and lead to other health conditions.
    5.   The Predictive Testing led to the misdiagnosis of individuals, the response to the rebuttal
         was "You have it but you didn't know it". PCR testing was inhumane and utterly useless in
         diagnosing the flu and/or Covid-19. This also led to people being stood down from their
         workplace and prohibited from other human contact when they were indeed healthy.
    6.    AHPRA's demeaning, threatening and suspension of medical personnel when they refused to
          inject their patients with the Covid-19 MRNA vaccine (the use of other treatments, and in
          not being able to provide patients with information about what was in these substances, the
          effects and contraindications related to these injections) is utterly reprehensible, and which
          weaponised regulatory bodies that dismissed proven treatments. These medical personnel
          were told to forego their Duty of Care and Do No Harm oaths.
    7.    The failure to ensure that this provisional emergency approved MRNA treatment complied
          with relevant safety standards with regard to pollutant DNA demonstrates a failure of Duty
          of Care, which is now leading to lawsuits by those injured by this substance.
    8.    Nothing is still being said as to whether these MRNA therapies are a contributor to the high
          level of unusual mortalities and injuries that are occurring in our country. What we are
          hearing is that there is an unusually high amount of deaths and disabilities - something that
          was not apparent prior to this pandemic we had to have - and also have been occurring
          since the rollout of these vaccines. To date there has been no correlation made here when it
          has been shown in prior years to the pandemic not to be such an issue.
    9.    Public Health messaging that hospitals were overcrowded with Covid -19 patients was not
          necessarily so. Hospitals were being understaffed and floors were shut down as a result of
          non compliant healthcare professionals being stood down. In addition to this, advertising of
          vaccines led to ad nauseam and intolerance of mainstream media through which was the
          platform for the vaccine mandate, and which also led to mass panic in the population
          resulting in victimisation and exclusions amongst citizens.

Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including across genders, age
groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with a disability, First Nations peoples and communities, and
people from culturally and linguistically diverse communities).


     1.   In the beginning of this pandemic, data was shown from Italy, Sweden and Israel that Covid-
          19 was a high risk for the elderly and infirm, and for younger people it was a negligible risk.
          This was never considered nor taken into account in any of the non-medical interventions
          such as border closures, lockdowns, shutting down of businesses, restricting use of and
          being part of activities. In effect, it was "one size fits all" attitude and the whole population
          was stuck in a twilight zone - so to speak.
    2.    The abovementioned two treatments should not have been banned, even if it was debatable
          as to its effectiveness. The only alternative, Covid-19 vaccine, is now in question and very
          debatable after the fact. It also leads to the question of what and who gained from this
          pandemic, an issue that needs to be extrapolated and thoroughly investigated.
    3.    The Federal Government should have been very loud about the States violating Human
          Rights instead of turning a blind eye to the whole matter. One must indeed think that there
          was an invested interest in the whole pandemic.


In summarising, I personally find that a great injustice and misrepresentation has been made by all
realms of government - at Federal and State and Territories level. The citizens of this country have
lost trust and faith in their government as a result of this. The government needs to repair this
yawning rift between it and the people by conducting a fair and honest Inquiry. I rest my case.
