14 December 2023

Submission: Australian Federal COVID-19 Response Inquiry

If ever there was a time where I lost all faith in our Government and health care system it was the
unfolding of the Covid-19 pandemic. The word ‘pandemic’ sent shudders down my spine as prior
pandemics described in our history books were a big deal. I was expecting to see more than several
people from every street in our neighbourhoods succumb to this ‘terrible’ disease. Yet I still don’t
oersonally know of anyone who has died from this virus. However I do personally know of at least
(men aged in their       and^J who died from sudden heart failure or, in one case, a complete
breakdown of their immune system after receiving Covid ‘vaccinations’. Never before have
vaccinations had so little testing before they were released to the public and mandated for billions of
people world-wide. Their new NRMA technology made it even more frightening. I expected our
Australian Government to intensely scrutinise and consider whether they would expose our
population to treatment still at the experimental stage.

Scare-mongering and persuasive manipulation of the public to believe Covid-19 was dangerous
meant that most believed they had no option but to take the vaccinations, not realising they were far
from safe and effective. Most cruel was the lie that people must have them in order to protect the
vulnerable. People were dissuaded from doing their own research to find the best preventative and
treatment measures against what soon turned out to be a far less deadly ‘pandemic’ than promoted.
Billions of dollars were spent on procuring these vaccinations, much of them to be wasted when
reaching their expiry date before use. I still don’t understand why the Australian Government would
throw their own people under the bus in order to fill the coffers of huge pharmaceutical companies.

Closer to home, the effect the lockdowns, learning from home and mask wearing our^^^^^^^H
           had to endure, meant she had a very anxious       with much absenteeism. This
resulted in anxiety for me when, as her mother, I had to explain to the schools why she wasn’t
attending every time she failed to turn up. Thankfully she completed college with good marks but it
has still been a stressful time for no good reason.

Unless the Australian Government creates a group of it’s own citizens from a broad range of
disciplines, without any vested interests, to scrutinise a proper response to a possible future
pandemic, you will have lost the confidence of your own people, who realise you allow global
entities to call the shots when it comes to autonomy to choose what treatment we allow into our
own bodies. Too many top scientists were silenced and lost their jobs when they protested against
what they could see was very poor practice in the prevention and treatment of the virus. Anything
other than the narrative the Government decided upon was called out as ‘conspiracy’!

The Australian Government’s response to the above ‘pandemic’ was more harmful and frightening
than the actual virus, by failing to protect your people from unsafe practices and treatments,
whether mandated by the state governments or not. The Federal Government has the responsibility
to overturn harmful mandates imposed by state governments. Someone must take over-all authority
rather than standing by and watching events unfold without stepping in.

Thank you for your consideration,

Sincerely,
