Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission

Darren Kelly
12/12/2023



Firstly, it must be said that the exceptionally short submission period and timing of the response
deadline being in the weeks leading up to Christmas appears to be a blatant attempt at minimising
the number of responses received from the public. This certainly gives the impression the
Commonwealth Government does not take this inquiry seriously and is dismissive of public feedback.

As a summary it could be said that during the 'Covid Era' the State and Federal governments
attempted to exert and wield power that has never been granted by the Australian people.

It goes far beyond Government purview for it to impose life-altering changes upon on the entire
population based on incomplete information, and to use violence and coercion against those who
question the legitimacy or efficacy of the measures taken.

I have itemised various items of governmental overreach and mishandling below.

    1.         Refusal to allow Australian citizens to return home during a time of crisis.

    2.   The National Cabinet combining the executive branches of State and Federal governments is
         a fiction, has no basis in the Constitution, and completely undermines the rule of law
         including our emergency laws which clearly lay out the decision making processes, and
         transparency measures, which are designed to protect the Australian people in moments
         exactly such as these.

    3.   National Cabinet operating in non-transparent manner and not releasing meeting minutes.
         This erodes public trust and has no place in a democratic government.

   4.    The Prime Minister being permitted to secretly grant himself a plethora of Ministerial
         positions and power with no accountability. This is a complete mockery of democratic
         government.

    5.       The Federal Government consenting by effective silence to the state border closures.

    6.   Intentional blocking of existing safe, effective, and cheap treatments by the TGA. Notably
         Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin. These treatments were even banned prior to vaccines
         becoming widely available which conveniently provided a pathway for novel vaccine
         treatments with no long-term safety record to be granted emergency use authorisation
         under false pretences. Existing therapies that are known to be safe should never be banned
         to Australians.

    7.   Destruction of a large shipment of Hydroxychloroquine that was brought into the country by
         Clive Palmer. This denied the public access to a treatment with a known safety profile and
         efficacy.

    8.   AHPRA's threatening and harassing of doctors and interference with the doctor patient
         relationship. This is blatant weaponizing of the medical regulatory system to achieve political
         outcomes.

    9.   Federal Government's failure to ensure that the emergency approved MRNA based therapies
         were assessed as Genetically Modified Organisms or gene therapy. Furthermore, the
        labelling of these therapies as vaccines was completely misleading to the Australian public as
        these treatments did NOT meet any traditional definition of a vaccine.

    10. The Federal Government consenting by allowing vaccine mandates to imposed by state
        governments and many corporations. The Federal Government should never remain silent
        while human rights are being violated.

    11. Ignoring excess deaths in Australia since mass vaccinations commenced. The government
        claims to care for the Australian people yet refuses to report and investigate why many more
        people are dying since a novel medical treatment was forced upon a large cohort of the
        population.

    12. Ignoring age related vulnerability spectrum for COVID. Very early on during the "pandemic"
        it was known that children were not vulnerable to COVID yet vaccines were still prioritised
        and in many cases mandated for children.

    13. Governments both State and Federal must always be required to release all the working
        information from every meeting which is ultimately funded by taxpayers.

    14. Governments both State and Federal must act in accordance with their respective
        constitutions

    15. No government in Australia, State or Federal, should ever be allowed to mandate medical
        procedures

    16. Most important of all, the Australian government must not blindly follow guidelines and
        directives from unelected globalist organisations such as the WHO and the UN. Australia is a
        democratic society, and the government has a constitutional mandate to implement the
        collective will of the Australian people. This specifically excludes foreign organisations that
        have their own agenda and are intent on influencing Australia from afar.


There are many people who need to be held personally accountable for their respective decisions
and the resulting deaths, harms and violations of human rights.

I hope this Inquiry is up to the task.


Darren Kelly.
