I am              mother of               I’m happily married and live in

I believe Australia’s response to the COVID pandemic was a violation of human rights and
undemocratic.

The worst of the inhumane restrictions inflicted on Australians was not allowing people to see
their dying relatives. It was the most disgraceful ‘restriction’ placed on people.
THIS CAN NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.

Imposing mandates for vaccines that did not prevent infection or transmission is, in my opinion,
completely unethical. The dictatorial decision to not grant exemptions to people from the
mandates irrespective of known previous allergic reactions to ingredients in the vaccines available
was inconceivable. A ‘one size fits all’ approach to healthcare is inconsistent with the
personalised healthcare which is the preferred method used today by doctors.

The recent discovery of DNA contamination of the bivalent  and^^^^^^/accines by
Scientist^^^^^^^^^l which was replicated in several laboratories in other countries, is
extremely concerning.(1)

Also concerning is the following paper regarding information obtained by FOIA to reveal the
following.




The injecting of children to protect the elderly would have to be the worst crime committed by the
government during the pandemic. As a mother I would, as the saying goes ‘take a bullet for my
children’ with no hesitation. This is how it has always been, the parents, grandparents and other
members of the family protect the children and it’s how it always should be. I would never expect
my children to take a medication to protect me, no matter what the state of my health is at the
time, that is not their job.

Compulsory face masks were a restriction which was unnecessary and provoked fear and
resentment. The Cochrane Review (3) states:




Restricting people’s access to fresh air and outdoor spaces had an affect on the mental health of
the population which will impact the economy and burden our children and grandchildren for
decades to come. The lockdowns resulted in increased domestic violence, increased alcohol
abuse and severely impacted the most vulnerable in our communities. The draconian restrictions
placed on citizens without quantifying the reasons for them can never happen again.Transparency
is crucial during a pandemic to allay people’s fear and uncertainty.

The $18 billion spent on vaccines, treatments and equipment etc. has crippled our economy and
much of the money has been wasted, as a report on the ABC News website from July 2022 (5)
states:
‘Health officials and experts are assessing what to do with the tens of millions of COVID-19
vaccines Australia has purchased but does not need, with concerns some may simply go to
waste.1

The excess deaths from all causes has increased dramatically since the vaccine rollout. This is
addressed in the Australian Medical Practitioners Society book ‘Too Many Dead’(6), the preamble
of which is below:
IT MAY AT FIRST SEEM AN EXTRAORDINARY THING TO SAY, BUT THE FACT IS THAT
AUSTRALIA IS CURRENTLY EXPERIENCING A PROLONGED ELEVATED RATE OF DEATH
ACROSS ALL AGE GROUPS. AN EXAMINATION OF THE OFFICIAL FIGURES SHOWS RATES IN
THE VICINITY OF 12-17% ABOVE BASELINE AVERAGES, RATES NEVER SEEN SINCE
WARTIME. THEY LEAPT UP IN EARLY 2021 AND CONTINUE AT UNUSUAL LEVELS TO THIS
DAY.

These excess deaths must be addressed by the government.

The censorship of doctors and scientists who questioned the government narrative must also be
addressed by this Inquiry. The paper ‘Censorship and Suppression of Covid-19 Heterodoxy:
Tactics and Counter-Tactics’ (7) addresses this topic.

I believe that had Australian politicians read and followed the recommendations in The Great
Barrington Declaration (8) which highlighted the need for focussed protection, our country would
not be suffering from the collateral damage caused by the decisions made by the government
during the pandemic. Three leading Epidemiologists penned the document on 4th October 2020
and their credentials are as follows:

Dr.                 professor of medicine at Harvard University, a biostatistician, and
epidemiologist with expertise in detecting and monitoring infectious disease outbreaks and
vaccine safety evaluations.

Dr.               professor at Oxford University, an epidemiologist with expertise in
immunology, vaccine development, and mathematical modeling of infectious diseases.

Dr. ^^^^^^^^^|professor at Stanford University Medical School, a physician,
epidemiologist, health economist, and public health policy expert focusing on infectious diseases
and vulnerable populations.

This declaration was signed by over 47,000 medical practitioners and has 939,000 signatures in
total. The following is an excerpt from the declaration.

‘We know that vulnerability to death from COVID-19 is more than a thousand-fold higher in the old
and infirm than the young. Indeed, for children, COVID-19 is less dangerous than many other
harms, including influenza.

As immunity builds in the population, the risk of infection to all - including the vulnerable - falls.
We know that all populations will eventually reach herd immunity - i.e. the point at which the rate
of new infections is stable - and that this can be assisted by (but is not dependent upon) a
vaccine. Our goal should therefore be to minimise mortality and social harm until we reach herd
immunity.

The most compassionate approach that balances the risks and benefits of reaching herd
immunity, is to allow those who are at minimal risk of death to live their lives normally to build up
immunity to the virus through natural infection, while better protecting those who are at highest
risk. We call this Focused Protection.

Adopting measures to protect the vulnerable should be the central aim of public health responses
to COVID-19. By way of example, nursing homes should use staff with acquired immunity and
perform frequent testing of other staff and all visitors. Staff rotation should be minimised. Retired
people living at home should have groceries and other essentials delivered to their home. When
possible, they should meet family members outside rather than inside. A comprehensive and
detailed list of measures, including approaches to multi-generational households, can be
implemented, and is well within the scope and capability of public health professionals.

Those who are not vulnerable should immediately be allowed to resume life as normal. Simple
hygiene measures, such as hand washing and staying home when sick should be practiced by
everyone to reduce the herd immunity threshold. Schools and universities should be open for in­
person teaching. Extracurricular activities, such as sports, should be resumed. Young low-risk
adults should work normally, rather than from home. Restaurants and other businesses should
open. Arts, music, sport and other cultural activities should resume. People who are more at risk
may participate if they wish, while society as a whole enjoys the protection conferred upon the
vulnerable by those who have built up herd immunity.’

I hope the decisions made during this Inquiry reflect what the Australian people need. We need
the government to acknowledge that mistakes were made and to give their assurance that this
will never happen again.



References


1.   Sequencing of bivalent Moderna and Pfizer mRNA vaccines reveals nano gram to microgram
     quantities of expression vector dsDNA per dose. 26 September 2023 https://osf.io/preprints/
     osf/b9t7m
2.   Covid-19: Researchers face wait for patient level data from Pfizer and Moderna vaccine trials
     BMJ 12 July 2022 https://www.bmj.com/content/378/bmj.o1731/rr-2
3.   Do physical measures such as hand washing or wearing masks stop or slow down the spread
     of respiratory viruses. https://www.cochrane.org/CD006207/ARI_do-physical-measures-such-
     hand-washing-or-wearing-masks-stop-or-slow-down-spread-respiratory-viruses
4.   Measuring the quantity of harmful volatile organic compounds inhaled through masks, https://
     www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC10112860/pdf/main.pdf
5.   ABC News -18 July 2022. httDs://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-07-18/australia-covid-vaccine-
     surplus-options/101237430
6.   Too Many Dead - An Inquiry into Australia’s Excess Mortality by Australian Medical
     Practitioners Society 2023 https://8630368.fs1 .hubspotusercontent-nal .net/hubfs/8630368/
     Lite_Too-Many-Dead-PDF-with-Cover-MQ-1 6112023 (2).pdf
7.   Censorship and Suppression of Covid-19 Heterodoxy: Tactics and Counter-Tactics’1
     November 2022 https://osf.io/preprints/osf/b9t7m

8. Great Barrington Declaration https://gbdeclaration.org/
