I am writing a submission as a member of the public, who like millions of other Australian
    citizens was impacted by the government's response to the covid-19 pandemic. It was
    announced an inquiry into Australia's response would not have the scope of a Royal
    Commission and I was immediately dismayed and disappointed. The pandemic was
    described as a "once in a lifetime event" and as such its response requires a review of equal
    depth and consequence.

Australia had an existing pandemic response developed for this exact scenario and it was not
   followed, this alone requires further investigation. A pandemic had been expected and
   planned for and the government abandoned the very document that outlined a well-
   considered and measured response. In fact, the government actions were in contravention
   to the plan, taking actions that the plan outlined would not work\ The Australian people
   would like to know who made the decision not to implement the plan? I draw your attention
   to Sweden who did not follow the same measures as Australia and had better outcomes for
   their citizens without the social, psychological and financial costs. Sweden followed their
   pandemic plan.

A Royal Commission is required to examine the role of "independent" agencies, advisors and
   stakeholders for conflicts of interest during the course of the pandemic response. Choices in
   relation to testing, equipment (PRE etc) and most significantly vaccines need to be examined
   and what role these conflict of interests played in the purchasing, use and prioritising. For
   example, why wasn't an Australian vaccine prioritised over the purchase of millions of doses
   from overseas interests? Given that Australian tax payers are footing the bill for covid-19,
   surely an Australian vaccine producer could have been supported and expeditated, as in the
   case of Vaxine and Professor Petrovsky.

Further to this, the contracts for vaccine procurement need to be made public. Questions need
    to be asked about the large number of doses purchased which far exceed the number of
    people in Australia as well as the recommended dosage. Why was this gross over purchase
    approved, subsequently resulting in millions of tax payer money squandered. It speaks to the
    above point, where overseas interests benefit at the expense of average Australians. Why
    were the contracts secret to begin with? It is a public health issue and government have a
    responsibility to report on such matters transparently and this was not done - why?

The inquiry will only be examining the role of the Commonwealth Government responsibilities
    and the role the National Cabinet had in management of the pandemic. I would suggest this
    is also vastly inadequate as it was the States who imposed vaccine and mask mandates and
    lockdowns. To only look at the actions of the government at a federal level effectively gives
    the States a free pass. Throughout the pandemic, Scott Morrison stated vaccination was
    voluntary, completely ignoring the reality and effectively abrogating the federal government
    of moral and all responsibility for such decisions. It was offensive and condescending. The
    federal government did nothing to protect Australian citizens from the actions of the state,
    they could have done this with the introduction of fair work laws but it was never done. All
    levels of government responses need to be examined, including the interplay between the
    federal and state government decision making.

The key health responses (vaccination, PRE and public health messaging) requires a Royal
    Commission in order to provide real and serious consequences can be enforced. There was a
    significant breakdown in public health messaging in which a calm, measured and balanced
    coverage was missing. Experts who had been titans in their fields were silenced because it
    went against the government narrative. This is not how the public can make informed health
    choices! Respectful open debate used to be valued and a core principle in robust decision
    making, this was glaring in its absence during the pandemic. Any discussion or questions
    were dismissed and demonized as "mis / disinformation" even when coming from a genuine
    desire to understand more fully.

Science stops being science when you can't ask questions and Australians were being asked to
    accept only one narrative and this was worrying, disturbing, destructive, undemocratic. This
    meant people were forced to seek out alternate media for further information and this was
    actively censored and/ ridiculed along with anyone who chose to read it. The mainstream
    media were complicit in this, running only stories that fit with the government narrative and
    declining to provide a platform to any other credible and highly knowledgeable experts. To
    add insult to injury, a lot of what was previously reported and labelled as "mis /
    disinformation" has been revealed as true and accurate! Imagine how different the response
    would have been had the normal approach to science had been adhered to and debate had
    taken place? The decision making would have been better informed and robust.

ATAGI, the TGA and AHPRA's role in the pandemic must also be examined. Did these agencies do
   the work without fear or favour? Were they really independent? There were cases of doctors
   who were stripped of their credentials for speaking against vaccination, with all doctors
   provided a narrative to patients regarding vaccination. How can doctors meet their
   obligation to provide patient specific advice when gagged and not allowed to discuss
   possible adverse events from covid vaccines? How can a patient make an informed choice
   about their own health in consultation with their doctor when the doctor is silenced?
   Doctors who wanted to speak out saw colleagues careers and livelihoods destroyed. How can
   anything but a Royal Commission be acceptable when considering this factor alone?

The damage done by the government's response to the pandemic has been widespread, created
    trauma that will affect beyond this generation. The impact on our children's schooling, social,
    emotional and psychological wellbeing is unforgivable. Decisions were made to lock children
    out of school despite the evidence showing young people were not significantly impacted by
    covid. The stats showed older people were most at risk yet we locked everyone else up and
    created a bigger problem. We are social creatures, not meant to be apart from each other,
    we do better together, young and old and the damage caused by lockdowns was
    immeasurable and unjustifiable.

Much is made of the stats and deaths etc however I note at each 11am press conference, the
   numbers were the focus. All this did was feed into the fear mongering and push the
   vaccination agenda. Numbers of death were not separated by who died with covid and from
   covid, a significant difference that would have opened the discussion for other avenues to
   protect Australians. Why didn't the Health department ever speak of co-morbidities and how
   a focus on good general health could be protective? It would have been fair, just and
   respectful to provide Australians this information so that they may assess their own risk,
   after all they are aware of their own health status and make decisions about vaccination
   from there.

I note the scope of the inquiry does not cover international programs etc and believe this may
    have something to do with the WHO recommendations..? This would fall within an
    examination of a federal response so not sure why it is not being reviewed? The WHO
    recommendations were used as part of the justification for the measures implemented and
    especially as they seek to have closer influence and powers over future pandemic responses?
There needs to be accountability for the covid response. We are being told there is another
    pandemic coming so it is just logical that we would thoroughly examine our response to this
   one so we can do better and less harm! Health decisions should be made with all the
   available information, review and reflection is part of good scientific method. Different
   voices are an integral necessary part of this process. Experts from all sides of the spectrum
   should be included in this review, that is how we learn to do better.
