14 December 2023

Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry


I work in the building & industrial sector & my submission is my personal experience of what I
observed, experienced, the division & the trashing of Australia.




I was very concerned in 2020 when the federal government agreed with the W.H.O. that pandemic
measures were required.

Whilst accepting the initial 2 week stoppage to organise & boost medical supplies the government
actions quickly went off the rails.

Australia had over a number of years if not decades built a pandemic plan that was trashed &
replaced with decisions made on the run, some of these I think are questionable as to whether they
are even lawful.

The government stopping Australian passport holders returning home trashed the Australian
Passport system.


For 4 years now we have had health ministers giving health advice which should only be given by
doctors after diagnosing patients.

We don't know what qualifications the health ministers hold, I still remember in the past when fake
doctors were prosecuted.

We had the federal government build systems and / or apps for facilitating the sharing of private
medical data free of coercion which is against Federal Privacy Act 1988 Section 94H.

To this day I don't know if anybody has been investigated or prosecuted.

In this country we once had Informed Consent and an Immunisation Handbook, something which
the doctor & patient consulted on without interference.

Since 2020 we have had the trashing of everything I thought not possible in Australia, Informed
Consent, Australian Immunisation Handbook, Human rights Commission & Military on the streets
against the people just to name a few.

Violence & coercion were either ignored & / or endorsed by the government & the opposition, I still
remember years earlier where we were all being told silence was violence.


In 2022 & 2023 Senate questioning TGA, AHPRA, Office of the Gene Technology Regulator
responses to questions from various Senators were very concerning & had me thinking they were
being deceitful to even being fraudulent.

These regulators were making the recommendations yet too many questions were being taken on
notice.
It made me wonder if these people were qualified & if they were how did they get their
qualifications.

I am still struggling to work out how AHPRA can get involved in the patient doctor relationship, I
don't want people 1,000s of kilometres away let alone strangers in the same street knowing or
getting involved in my personal health records.


We are now in December 2023 & to my knowledge the National Cabinet Minutes have not been
released to the public.

Without the National Cabinet Minutes being released we will never learn the lessons required &
ultimately this inquiry will have a difficult time making any judgements & / or recommendations
that people will consent to.


Thank you for reading.




Yours faithfully,
