                                 Covid Inquiry Submission
                                 Friday, 15 December 2023

We are members of the public, a retired married couple who have been significantly affected
by the Federal Government response to the covid virus, as have all citizens of Australia.
Our lives were turned upside down in so many ways.
We are healthy and active people, who take great responsibility for our physical, social and
mental health. We eat natural unprocessed food, exercise daily, do not take any medications
on a regular basis and have no chronic health conditions.
So when February 2020 arrived and the government messaging was about a ‘scary’ virus, we
were not worried or afraid because we believe our best defense to any bugs is a healthy
immune system. We occasionally get a cold but have never had a full blown flu.
The government messaging right from the start never encouraged people to improve their
immune systems. As we know, the health of Australians is in pretty bad shape, for many
reasons and really is a national emergency, yet is not taken seriously.
Yet this flu virus with over 99% survival rate, brought our nation to a halt. The government
needs to be held to account over the impact on people’s lives, a total over reach of measures.

All through this last 3 years we have had very serious concerns about the government’s
response and the motivations behind them. Who was driving the narrative? Who stood to
benefit? As the saying goes, “follow the money trail to get to the truth”. It is now at a point
for us, that we have no trust in the Australian government, because of their words, actions and
inactions over recent years.

At the outset of this brief submission, we admit that we have almost no faith, either, in this
inquiry, if for no other reason, the short time for people to submit, just before Christmas in
the busiest time of year! Why would that be?
The scope and terms of reference are inadequate.
There needs to be a full-on Royal Commission that would independently and truthfully
analyse what has happened and continues to be happening regarding government actions and
responses to this and any future so called global health issues.

Vaccine mandates- the federal Government failed to introduce anti discrimination
legislation to protect workers and citizens from being excluded from work,
community,business, shopping, travel and social activities.
              and I were sacked from our community volunteer roles, despite our good health
but simply because we didn’t take the jabs.
When the Prime Minister said there were no mandates, the states and companies illegally
imposed mandates. The Federal government failed to protect citizens’ human rights to
choose medical procedures - Nuremberg trials come to mind!
Many people we know lost their jobs because they knew they were being forced to take
something that had definitely not been proved safe and effective.
These were people highly trained and qualified in professions, with vast years of experience.
This is a national disgrace, allowed by the Federal government. Why?
The old rules regarding safety totally went out the window.
Informed consent went out the window.

Government expenditure and wastage on spending hundreds of millions of dollars for
doses of vaccines. Our population just over 26 million. The Australian Government
purchased 255 million doses, enough for about 10 jabs for every person. The max dosage
authorised was 5 per person, which in itself is mad and clearly shows these vaccines were not
proper vaccines and certainly didn’t protect people as they were told.
AZ vaccine - 53 million doses bought with tax payers money and only about 26 percent were
used. The rest thrown out.
Pzizer- 126 million doses purchased and only 33 percent used.
Moderna 25 million does bought and only about 18 percent used.
Clearly the vaccine manufacturers made enormous profits at the expense of taxpayers, and
were given immunity from any prosecution. It is clearly known now that full safety and
efficacy tests were not done.
Big Pharma has made                 large amounts of money from the Australian people as our
Government has responded to this virus, clearly not much different to a flu which comes
regularly.
This unbelievable expenditure and wastage needs to be investigated and those responsible
must be held accountable.
 Our Federal Government has spent over $18 billion dollars on vaccines and treatment
supplies as part of its response to covid. Refer to Dept of Health and Aged Care document on
Australia’s Vaccine Agreements for details.
The supply agreements are not available to the public for scrutiny and accountability.
There needs to be transparency and full disclosure.

Failure of Government to compensate vaccine injured people. We know many people,
friends and neighbours who were clearly seriously injured very soon after taking the jabs.
■cludin^^^^^^^^^l suffered by a fit and healthy MHleading to^^^^l
           a ^^^^^gwhocontmues to
           s doctor admitted it was jab injury but would not record or register it; another
           aged^Hwho continues to suffer with issues. These are just a few of
the people we know personally but all our contacts know others personally. All are finding it
near impossible to have their doctors admit the cause, let alone report the adverse reactions.
The scheme is a joke!

Failure to acknowledge the level of injury and death. The government must clearly know
that death rates are above the usual, that medical conditions like myocarditis amongst young
people have sharply increased, yet are not being honest in admitting these things. A motion
in Senate seeking an investigation into these things was defeated- unbelievable! A few
senators and MPs are trying to bring the truth to light but the major parties are failing the
people.

The government has failed the people of Australia in trusting the TGA.
Big questions need to be asked with regard to the TGA.
Who makes up this body, vested interests etc. The public must be told .
The TGA threatened doctors to not say anything negative to their patients about the jabs.
Some doctors were struck off, who had serious doubts about the jabs and the government
response.
There has been serious regulatory failure. The TGA has admitted it doesn’t know the extent
of covid jab harm and deaths.
The TGA has hidden child deaths from the covid jabs so as not to alarm public perception.
FOI documents reveal this.
The TGA needs to be held accountable by the government as they review their response to
covid and any future responses.
National Cabinet was set up and appointed by PM Scott Morrison in response to covid and
the secrecy of this group needs to be seriously investigated.
