15th December 2023




To whom it may concern

There are many things throughout the last 3 years during the COVID-19 pandemic period that have
not been addressed or thought through properly.




    •   Loss of job(s) due to mandatory vaccination requirements. My husband lost two jobs due to
        not being able to prove vaccination status. The process of trying to survive without work
        and no employer taking on anyone unvaccinated was horrific. Let's not mention the process
        of trying to get jobseeker payments to survive only to get knocked back time and time again I


    •   Mask mandates - although the public health order specified a mask was not mandatory in
        public schools, the Education department chose to mandate masks without supplying
        evidence as to how they came to that conclusion nor were they held accountable for this
        non-scientific based decision. This resulted in our son being suspended from school which
        caused unnecessary mental and physical stress!


    •   Even though vaccines were not tested enough (especially) for transmissibility^^^^^H
                                         those unvaccinated within society and the workplace were
        treated like lepers, there is NO justification to be treated like that. Three years down the
        track I'm still unable to work in my original workplace due not being fully vaccinated against
        COVID-19. We are living with COVID-19 so why does vaccination status still impact where
        you can and can't work? Why is the government not insisting that all workplaces remove
        these mandates? Government's inaction on lifting all mandates in workplace is still
        impacting people both mentally and financially.

There are many instances where the handling of the COVD-19 pandemic was floored. It has affected
many families significantly and unfortunately we continue to feel the repercussions of these bad
decisions.

THERE MUST BE A INDEPENDANT INQUIRY INTO COVID-19 RESPONSE WITHIN AUSTRALIA AND ALL
OVER THE WORLD.

Yours sincerely,

Andigone Aguilar
