                                                                                                            PROTECTED




COVID 19 inquiry submission




This is the first time I've ever written a response to a parliamentary inquiry and I'm doing so for
several reasons, not the least of which is that this government clearly doesn't want submissions as
they've provided such an unreasonable timeframe for the submission (1 Week) with zero publicity in
the lead up the Christmas.

The impacts of the utterly ill advise response to society and individuals is massively far reaching, it's
done major harms to both individuals like myself heath but also has a far reaching impact on social
cohesion.

The divide and conquer approach taken to subjugate the public is beyond reprehensible and has
simply had the effect of undermining trust in the government and its institutions. Should a future
pandemic occur the default position of much of the community will be to ignore government advice
as it's seeming now abundantly clear that the response was driven by focus groups (popularity),
political outcomes and not good public policy.

The ongoing disregard of the public at large, as evidenced by this governments slippery tactics in
only allowing the public 1 weeks to make submissions, will do nothing to resort public faith in the
process.

It is clear from previous pandemic planning that lockdowns were not to be used in response to a
pandemic due to the down stream impact. How Australian government at all levels chose to throw
away all this previous planning to embark on the^^^^Hauthoritarian approach and call it a health
response is dubious at best. The clear ongoing issues of social dislocation, school refusal, increased
obesity, elevated ongoing death rates were all predicated as the consequences of such a policy and
these have all sadly come to pass.

The government's savage suppression of scientific debt in favour of spin will in my view make it next
to impossible to address future pandemics and other emergencies in a considered fashion as a huge
(and in my view growing) segment of the community is now awake to the utter failings of
government and governance.

It has always been clear that COVID was selective, it targeted the elderly and otherwise vulnerable.
The response to punish and harm the general population without actually looking at targeted
measures to protect those at risk whilst limiting the impacts to those at little to no risk was
unforgivable. I say this as someone who has medical challenges and would be one of those
considered at risk of COVID, so I understand the risk this would have passed to myself, and I'd of
gladly taken that risk to avoid the ongoing harms to my children. My 6 Year old continues to have
issues which I'm told are a direct result of impacts to his socialisation during COVID.

We as a community have lost focus on the simple fact that it is incumbent on us to protect our
children. The current cost of living crisis and the massive debt that will impact our children for
generations were clearly foreseeable because of the unplanned response.

The fact that this government has chosen to convene such a limited inquiry and done so with
slippery tactics designed to limit public comment shows that our ruling class has learnt nothing from
this sorry part of our history.

I don't know if it's possible but I'd certainly implore the government to extend or reopen the
submission process so that the whole county can feel this was an inclusive process looking to learn
                                                                                                        PROTECTED




and improve, rather than the clear impression that a 1 week consultation phase provides of an
attempt to cover up and ignore.

I implore the government to rule out and if required legislate to outlaw the response taken to the
COVID pandemic. If anything good can come of this abject failure of a response it is to learn it must
never be repeated, as any lives potentially saved have clearly been lost due disastrously impacts of
the aftermath.
