Commonwealth Covid-19 Response Inquiry



My name is Susan Brandon. My husband and I are self-employed.

We live in

We have two children and two granddaughters who live in^^^^^

I strongly disapproved of the Federal and State Governments heavy handed approach to the Covid 19
issue and the restrictions that denied my basic human rights.

My family are divided over the draconian measures and our relationship is severely impacted.



My submission

Health and Non Health response.

An experimental gene therapy injection, never before used in human populations, with no long-term
safety data should never be made mandatory.

Informed consent can only be given when thorough testing of the injection has taken place which
requires 10 to 12 years study. It is against the Nuremberg Convention to experiment on humans
without informed consent. Informed consent gained by coercion, ie job loss or restrictions of any
sort, IS NOT informed consent.

The lack of effectiveness of the gene therapy injections in preventing transmission or infection
became apparent very quickly but did not result in a more measured approach. Mandatory
vaccinations were demanded despite their ineffectiveness becoming obvious. The gene therapy
injections should only have ever been voluntary.

Medical doctors should never have been deregistered for having a different view concerning
mandatory vaccination. Their freedom of speech needs to be reinstated.

Border closures placed stress on our family and caused me great mental anguish. Life will never be
the same as pre 2020 when we enjoyed a close family relationship.

We are one country and the borders should never again be closed.




Responsibility of Commonwealth and State Governments

Freedom of speech and advice from a wide range of experts with differing views should have been
available to all people via mainstream sources. One narrative was pushed and any dissenting voices
were silenced. The censorship imposed surely contravenes Commonwealth and State laws. Official
Government information was propaganda and sloganistic with no factual data to back it up. The
slogan "safe and effective" is still being used today although it is totally untrue. The high number of
excess deaths that Australia is still experiencing today is proof that something is seriously wrong.
The Federal Government should have taken the lead role and diminished the draconian actions of
the State Governments. Lockdowns or home detention should never be imposed on law abiding
citizens of Australia. The lockdowns have destroyed many peoples' health, families, jobs, businesses
and also the economies of the States and the whole of Australia. Australians should have the right to
make their own decisions on their health and whether or not they choose to stay at home or move
freely around in society.



We need a Royal Commission into Australia's Covid -19 response to establish the truth of what has
been and still is occurring.
