To be completely vilified in your own country is an extraordinary feeling. To have the government
take over the role of individual healthcare from your doctor is indescribable.

The mandates for the covid-19 injection that we have just seen over the last 3 years defy the
Nurumberg code which says that 1). people must not be coerced - if losing your job isn't coercion, I
don't know what is. 2). That it is ALWAYS an individual's right to choose for his or her health. This
clearly did not happen. 3). There must be informed consent - how could there be informed consent
when the insert to the covid 19 injection was blank?



In 2020, the Jewish Museum in Melbourne had displayed on their website, the 10 steps to how
society went from normal western civilization to putting Jewish people concentration camps. Like
clockwork, my husband and I followed as each step was presented. If you are vaccinated, then you
probably didn't even notice that this was going on right under your nose. In 2 years, we got to step 7
(Dec 2021). And they had the "wellness camps" all built. Thank goodness for the weaker strain of
omicron and not being able to push the narrative anymore.

Many individuals simply cannot take a vaccine due to prior health issues. But these were ignored.
The government put out statements (and I believe still is that they were "safe and effective" without
any long- term data - either empirical evidence or RCT. Greg Hunt, the then health minister called it
"The biggest experiment the world has ever seen". So how could anyone call it safe and effective
when there is no proof of this? Is this not the government's own so-called "misinformation'?

So many of my friends have been vaccine injured because of the injection. Everything from changes
in menses, muscle pain, sore arm, myocarditis and even death. These side effects are all documented
in many studies, which you have access to if you chose.

Looking at the data released by the whistleblower in NZ, the data is clear that there is an increase in
mortality rates since the injection was released (not covid arriving on our shores). This is reflected in
the ABS statistics where most months death rates are up by 15-18%.



We need a royal commission into the deceit, deception and corruption about how the Australian
government chose fear and mandates over medical freedom. This was medical tyranny.



You probably have my data anyway, but I no longer feel like I can give you my information. I feel like I
am risking myself by writing this. We have no democracy left in the sense that people are now
abused and shamed for having a difference of opinion. The politicians and the media made sure of
that.

I pray to God that this NEVER happens again and that I can somehow trust the government again, but
the only way to start doing that is through accountability of politicians and making laws that this is
never possible again.



God Bless whoever is reading this. I pray you do the right thing but moving forward with a Royal
Commission.
