F rom^^erebnany^^^^^


I am Australian citizen and I am very concern about Australian Government mismanagement during Covid
period.

Restriction on number of healthy Australians returning home.
Unconstitutional decision of Australian Government and States to restrict the entrance to the country by
draconian cap of only a few hundred per state prevented family reunions for many thousands who were caught
overseas .
I personally could not return to Australia in 2010 for about 6 months being absolutely healthy with all possible
negative Covid tests. My right to return home as stated even in my Australian passport was violated.
I have also contacted Australian Embassy asking for financial assistance and was not offered any.
My flights were cancelled 5 times because of that cap and I was eventually forced to buy very expensive
business class air ticket. My plane was empty with only 12 passengers on board. It was huge unnecessary waste
of resources.

Quarantine for healthy people.
On arrival I was forced to 2-week quarantine despite being Covid free.
It is the first time in history when not ill people were isolated but healthy people. It was unnecessary expensive
and scientifically unsupported experiment.

Unwarranted Lockdowns.
During Covid Australian Government restricted the natural right to spend time outdoors, people were locked at
home for months. It did not make any sense as all viruses are spreading better indoors where its concentration
can easily reach level required for infecting people.

Unwarranted movement restrictions.
Australian Government restricted healthy people movement to small local areas.
It is unconstitutional and goes against basic rights. By far too many businesses went under due this policy.

Unlawful interference into doctor - patient relations.
Australian Medical Government bodies violated doctor to patient relations by prohibiting doctors to prescribe well
known and safe medicines like Ivermectin. Australian Doctors were threatened in the letter from AMA to lose
licenses if Ivermectin or Hydroxychloroquine is prescribed. There was also campaign in media to present
harmless and used for 30 years medicines as dangerous.
It was done deliberately to force everyone to take new and not tested properly vaccine.

Unwarranted de-facto vaccination mandate.
There was de-facto vaccination mandate for too many professions without local studies.
It caused numerous voluntary and involuntary dismissals and staff shortages.

No information about Government Contracts with Pfizer and Moderna.
Government Contracts with Pfizer and Moderna were never published and even cannot be obtain using freedom
of information Act.

No investigation into young adults Excessive deaths.
There is substantial excessive deaths percentage in young adults in Australia in 2021-2023. According to
international report it is 17% (!) in 2023. Thousands are dying and nobody seems to be concern both in
Government agencies or mass media.
See for example: https://ourworldindata.Org/excess-mortalitv-covid#excess-mortalitv-our-data-sources

young adults
