Submission to the Covid 19 Inquiry




14 December 2023




From

Geoff Linklater




Dear Sir/Madam




I would like the following questions/matters addressed by Inquiry:

How can unilateral action by State/Territories be excluded from scope when they were all part of a
National Cabinet? All their actions should be "in-scope", regardless.

Why did Federal Gov allow themselves and the States?Territories to violate our Constitution? Example,
the right to freedom of movement. There must be accountability for that.

Why did Federal Gov and the States/Territories ignore our basic human rights of bodily autonomy, the
right to free choice, and free and informed consent?

If a person exercises free choice to accept the injection, and if such injection were truly safe and
effective, meaning they were "protected", what's it matter if others choose not to accept the same
injection? Those choosing the injection are protected, right? Those choosing not to accept the injection
make no difference, right?

Why did the Federal Gov engage in, and allow States/Territories to engage in, disrespectful criticism of
citizens who chose not to accept the injection?

Can the Inquiry please acquire and publish all documented scientific and health evidence relied upon by
the Federal Gov and States/Territories to justify the action taken?

Why did the Federal Gov and States/Territories ignore pre-existing and later discovered treatments that
worked more effectively against Covidl9?
Why did the Federal Gov and States/Territories appear to blindly adopt actions taken by several nations
early in the period, without any pre-existing evidence that such measures did or would work here in
Australia?

Can the Inquiry please acknowledge the good and bad actions, and inactions by our Governments, and
go as far as to suggest we need to be willing to self-manage our health situations in future, and not
necessarily blindly adopt rules or actions dictated by other nations or unelected, overseas bureaucrats
and officials ?




Thank you

Geoff Linklater
