To whom it may concern:


I am gravely concerned about the governmental response to Covid-19, particularly as it
relates or related to:


   •       Personal freedoms
   •       Bodily autonomy
   •       Health and wellbeing generally, but particularly those in aged care


Specifically, some of my personal experience of the Covid-19 response was as follows:



   •   My wife, who works in an aged care setting was required to take an experimental
       vaccine, prior to the completion of appropriate testing. This vaccine has caused
       some side-effects, and I am concerned about the long term problems that it may
       cause. It was taken again her better judgement because our family required her
       work income. This is a violation of personal freedoms, bodily autonomy, and the lack
       of appropriately researched testing of the product has led to great stress and concern
       for both of us.



   •   I did not take a vaccine, and did contract Covid. As a result of my infection, I was
       entitled to a temporary vaccine exemption due to natural immunity under the
       published guidelines. This was especially relevant to me due to the harsh restrictions
       on personal freedoms in Victoria at the time. Even though I was entitled to receive
       an exemption, I found that my regular doctor would not provide one, instead strongly
       encouraging me to be vaccinated.

       I had almost given up hope of obtaining the exemption when I was referred to
       another practitioner by a friend. This doctor knew how to process the exemption and
       did so promptly and without hesitation on presentation of the required evidence. My
       doctor had claimed what I was asking wasn’t possible, even though I provided him
       with copies of the information from health.gov.au.

       I believe that my doctor was subjected to professional bullying byAHPRAthat
       caused him to be unwilling to process the exemption request for fear of reprisals.
       What this has done is break my trust in my chosen professional. I now am
       uncomfortable to return to my doctor as a result of what I perceive as a failure in his
       professional conduct.


   •   My mother was in aged care prior to the arrival of Covid-19. Due to federal
       restrictions and policies instituted at the nursing home in response, I was effectively
       unable to visit her except for two occasions in a period of around 8 months. Prior to
       this, I had visited roughly fortnightly with my son.

       My mother’s condition deteriorated significantly in this time, and based on my
       observations and those of the care staff, this was likely accelerated by the lack of
       familial contact.

       The home was very accommodating, but due to Mum’s condition and the rules
       around visits, I was able to manage only one visit mid-2020 between lockdowns, and
       then a final visit was arranged in the week before Mum’s death by which time her
       deterioration was so far progressed that I can’t even be sure that she knew I was
       there.

       After she died, Mum’s body was whisked away by funeral directors before I could get
       to the nursing home to say a final goodbye. Due to restrictions at the time she was
       cremated without a funeral.


These experiences are obviously a snapshot of a broader experience. “Remote Learning”
was a farce, but it did help me to understand the failings of our education system and
transition our family to home schooling, so that worked out well enough.


My concern is the ease with which so many liberties were taken by government authorities in
a short space of time, in response to a threat which by any reasonable measure was not as
severe as we were led to believe. Three weeks to “flatten the curve” (which was perhaps a
reasonable and proportionate response to an unknown threat) quickly became something far
more. I believe that this marked the most egregious overreach by government seen in my
lifetime.


The role of government is to protect and provide for the needs of its people. I believe that
the government response to Covid-19 not only failed to protect people from disease
(potentially making it worse), but has also caused such damage to people and prosperity
that the damage may continue to be felt for the rest of my life. Certainly, we now live under
the threat of what government might do in response to future perceived threats.


 I implore you to see the harms caused to so many people and make recommendations to
uphold personal liberty (including bodily autonomy) and support the activities of a fair and
just society.


Yours Sincerely,
