14/12/23
To whom it may concern,

My experience of the government over-reach was abhorrent. Below are some questions I
need answered. There are many more.

1. - Restriction of interstate travel. (This directly affected my ability to provide an income for
my family) For what? Why for so long?

2. - Relentless Cohesion to take a vaccine that was in trial phase. (This was/is absolutely
unacceptable and created a huge amount of stress and conflict in the family household and
community) How is this acceptable? Pushed by our politicians who had exemptions
themselves?

3. - Discrimination and restrictions on those that did not take the trial vaccine. (This affected
my ability to provide basic needs to my family and put imminence unwarranted stress on
the household) How is this even legal? Pushed by our politicians who had exemptions
themselves?

4. - Heavy handed police tactics. (Treating everyday law-abiding citizens as criminals) Why?
Pushed by our politicians who had exemptions themselves?

5. - Forcing shop keepers to be checking personal medical information. (Vaccine status is not
the business of the local shop or waitress. Often these are friends) Why? Pushed by our
politicians who had exemptions themselves?

6. How and why can a vaccine company/government/ or doctor peddle and administer a
vaccine in such a blatantly cohesive way and not be held liable for the deaths and injuries?

7. Why did these vaccine company's that have had massive financial gain with Billions of
dollars of profits receive indemnity from our government?

Recommendations

1. Future pandemics must be handled in an ethical manner.

2. Profiting from a pandemic will only breed more pandemics. (If these company's want
indemnity they should be stripped of all profits)

3. All of the politicians and health services that behaved unethically and were involved in
the cohesive roll out of the trial vaccines must be held to account. (This will ensure future
pandemics will be handled ethically)

I look forward to specific answers to the above questions.
     a rds,
