Consequences of Government Covid measures

Dear Committee

I am sharing the profound and deeply distressing impact the Government's covid-19 measures had
on me as an honest, hard-working and high functioning member of my community.

Prevention of basic activities:

The restrictions put upon unvaccinated individuals were harmful and unwarranted. The basic
activities of grocery shopping became something that I dreaded because of this sudden requirement
to be tracked and sign in via a QR code. Also being denied access to certain retailers because of my
choice to not be injected with an untested and rushed medical intervention, felt like something
straight out of Nazi Germany. Having to show your papers to go into K-Mart was beyond ridiculous,
when I could walk straight into Woolworths right next door. How could this measure of denying
unvaccinated individuals access to certain retailers be justified?

Face coverings:

Forcing people to wear face coverings which have been proven (CDC admitted) to be ineffective
against covid, but also proven to cause bacterial infections from breathing in your own waste all day,
caused me the greatest amount of anxiety. I cannot tolerate anything on my face let alone having to
have it strapped to my face all day whilst working in a kitchen by myself 11 How was this justified?? I
would like to see the scientific evidence that proves they were an effective measure against stopping
the spread.

Media driven fear campaign and stigma:

The hate campaign being pushed by the media against unvaccinated individuals was nothing short of
appalling. I can still hear^^^^^^Hon Channel 7 morning show with his covid Christmas family
advice.^^^aid, and I quote " I wouldn't want to spend Christmas day with unvaccinated family
members, so I will ask them to stay outside". This sort of attitude reverberated across my whole
community, social networks and family. I had one friend whom I had been friends with for 30 years,
state on social media that he was only having vaccinated people at his house. I also had other friends
on social media say that they couldn't wait to sit in the pub and watch the unvaccinated lose it
because at that time we were denied access.

These attitudes continued towards unvaccinated people for two years and even today in my current
role I am reluctant to disclose my unvaccinated status, for fear of reprisal. The hatred pushed by the
media against unvaccinated people labelling us anti-vaxers was, and is derogatory. Even today people
refer to those who chose not to get injected as ant-vaxers. All of this has had a profound impact on
my mental well-being. I was an outgoing and social person, now I am withdrawn and with no
confidence.

The shift in public perception driven by the media fear campaign has strained many relationships and
created a hostile environment that still persists today. I have had life-long friends whom no longer
contact me because I chose to stay unvaccinated.

Travel restrictions:

As a person living alone it was important for me to get out and socialise with people. At the time, I
was residing in ^^^^|and                        lived 50km away. I was not allowed to travel that
short distance to visit her.                     lived a couple of blocks away from me and every time
I would be walking back from visiting him, the police would drive passed me, staring as if I were a
criminal. This made me very uncomfortable and added to my anxiety.

I also had a close friend at the time who lived on the other side of                 I was too fearful of being
pulled over by the police, that I did not visit him during lockdowns. This added to my feelings of
social isolation and declining state of mental well-being.

Loss of income and employment:

In January 2022 I was to begin a new environmental job, having spent 5 years studying for this type
of role. The day I was to start, I was told to bring in evidence of vaccination. As I did not have this, I
rang my supervisor to explain and was told that I was not to attend the office and that my contract
would have to be rewritten. This is after I had signed the original contract and was ready to start. So,
within the first week, my already signed contract was deemed invalid and a new one was sent to me,
stating that I must have 2 injections by the end of February and a third one in due course. At this
stage I had been witness to multiple people having bad reactions and I was not prepared to risk my
own health.

I was forced to decline the new contract and became instantly unemployed, having left my previous
job to start this new one. I was also then denied government assistance as I had money in the bank
from the prior sale of my home. I was then forced to live off my savings for the next 5 months, and
the money I had to buy a house has now diminished.

Personal tragedy:

My                   gave in to the media driven fear campaign and had three covid injections. After his
third injection he complained of                         He went to                     for his^^^^^^l
but told staff of his               They ignored this, sent him home and he           suddenly three days
                                                      found him laying sideways on the bed,
She tried to resuscitate him to no avail. Can you imagine the trauma
finding her son this way?

To make matters worse, my|                |had two injections against her will, so she could be with m
         during his stay in hospital. A couple of weeks after burying him, m                    collapsed, her
heart stopped beating for several minutes and she was air lifted to                  hospital. She now has a
              and is on                      for the rest of her life. She believes that her                  land
my                      are both related to these injections.

M                  collapsed within minutes of having her injection and now has been diagnosed with


My               whom is        also collapsed within minutes of having a covid injection and has now
been diagnosed with

                collapsed within minutes and thought he was having a                           Now he is on
              for the rest of his life.

My^^^^whom i^Mk°t an instant headache and had headaches for weeks after her first
injection. She was also havin in the middle of the night which would cause her to


None of these issues were present in any of these people prior to covid injections, and the list goes
on. For a product that was rushed to the market, not properly tested and has had such a dramatic
negative impact on peoples' health, there should be an investigation into who benefitted the most
financially from these contracts.

Unhealthy living:

Forcing people to stay locked in their homes, avoiding sunlight, fresh air and exercise would have to
be the most harmful direction of any government. We were locked down and encouraged to order
take away food delivery instead of seeking fresh air and sunlight. I would like to see the scientific
reasoning for forcing people into lockdown and denying us basic human rights.

Government over-reach has been a catastrophe for our country. Small business has been decimated
whilst multi-national companies experienced record profit. Relationships have been destroyed,
families torn apart and friendships ruined. People's health has been impacted both physically and
mentally. The impact on children's education won't be fully realised for years to come.

Government fear campaign:

I still have resonating through my mind, the words from State Premiers of how this was a virus of the
unvaccinated, the unvaccinated are the spreaders of disease, that the virus would hunt you down if
you were not vaccinated, and the most incredible misconception that the hospitals were overflowing
with unvaccinated. Even a former premier weighed in on the hate campaign saying that unvaccinated
people should be denied Medicare. Where is the proof or common sense and reasoning for any of
these proclamations? The truth is and was, that the hospitals were overflowing with vaccinated
people catching covid multiple times, and those that were having severe reactions to the injection.

Why after 95% of the population being vaccinated, did the virus continue to spread?

Why have all the vaccinated people caught covid multiple times?

Where is the acknowledgement now that all of this was in fact WRONG?

The disgusting discrimination of unvaccinated people in this country deserves investigating as this
was not based in science.

I would like to see a full, independent Royal Commission into how the Government responded and
the devastating impacts it has had on the country.

I would also like to see an investigation into the 15.1% increase in all cause mortality across every age
group for the past two years.

The crippling effect these measures have had on people across the country, justifies a full
investigation.

Thank you.

Sincerely

Catherine Booth
