Covid-19 Response Inquiry

15 December 2023




Dear Response Inquiry,




requiredto make every effortto reduce the likelihood of the event occurring. InAustralia alone,
there have been tens of thousands of direct deaths due to COVID-19 and magnitudes more
suffering from mild to extreme and ongoing, debilitating ill health. As an engineer, I see this as an
abject, and ongoing, failure of the Governmentto identify, implement, communicate, and manage
effective strategies to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 in the general population.

My submission relates to the areas of the Inquiry terms of reference that have impacted me and
where therefore my voice can contribute. These are the:
    •         Performance of the Governance and advisory bodies
    •         Key health response measures
    •         Mechanisms to better target future response to meet population needs.
The following paragraphs document my experiences, positive and negative, and opportunities for a
different approach that could improve future outcomes for both this COVID-19 pandemic and the
next novel virus that arrives on our shores.

It is important for any advisory body that they provide both the technical expertise specific to the
situation and the independence to provide advice without a preconception about whatthe
politically palatable outcome will be. There are of course challenges with finding experts on a novel
virus due to the inherent absence of pre-existing data and research. As someone who is a trusted
advisor within the industry I work in, reviewing the expertise of the individuals within the groups
advising the government was a key first step for me in assessing the advice being provided. In many
cases, checks indicated the advisors were working outside their fields of expertise and experience.
In some cases, the advice coming from the advisory bodies and being communicated from the
individual advisors to the public was (and still is) out of step with the global body of scientific
research and tended to opinion ratherthan knowledge. These discrepancies are not explained to
the public. The public are told by the Government that the advisors are, universally, leading experts.
Instead, the value of contribution and level of inaccuracy varies and discredits the remaining
experts. In particular, the advice given to the Government by the Chief Medical Officer was
inconsistent with global experts on COVID-19 and increased the likelihood of transmission by
falsely minimising the consequences of infection.
Not dying is a pretty low bar to set when we consider COVID-19 impacts to our population, yet that
has been the consistent benchmark set by the Government. The Australian population has been
told by the Government that it is ok to catch COVID-19, that the more you catch it the less chance
you have of catching it, that children don’t get COVID-19, that children don’t transmit COVID-19,
that avoiding COVID-19 leads to “immunity debt”. None of these statements is true. The peer
reviewed scientific research does not provide evidence to support to them. We all wish and hope
that they were true. But, unlike the USA and their approach to gun violence, we don’t rely on ‘hopes
and prayers’ to solve our biggest issues. We expect our Governmentto have leading, expert
guidance that follows the current global best practice in dealing with issues like COVID-19 and are
free to deliver advice without bias or political motivation. We have been letdown by the
Government and their advisors in their dealing with COVID-19. In the future, we need for the
Government and advisors to stay up to date with the changing nature of understanding with
developing viruses and to work within the limitations of theirtraining and experience. They need to
be able to clearly communicate when the scientific understanding has changed and thattherefore
so has the advice. We can’t be left to rely on hopes and prayers that we will be the lucky ones that
don’t get ongoing health issues due to an infection. Even more so, we deserve better than to not
even understand this potential consequence so we can make informed decisions about what
measures are appropriate to us as individuals to mitigate the likelihood of exposure. Good,
personal responsibility can only be taken when you are in full understanding of the issues. It
appearsto methatthe Government, supported by their advisors, has taken an approach that
promotes ignorance and apathy.

The Government’s initial response to limit transmission of COVID-19 were prudent given the
uncertainty. It was communicated to the population that quarantine, testing and tracking were key,
and these were generally carried out well in the early months of the pandemic. We were warned
that if we allowed COVID-19 to spread unchecked thatthe resultant virus mutation rate would
mean that science would not be able to generate vaccines quickly enough to get ahead. And we
were all reliant on the breakthrough vaccine that would allow a resumption of “normal” life.
Unfortunately, we are still waiting for a vaccine that provides immunity to COVID-19. The vaccines
that have been developed and distributed do not prevent or even significantly reduce the
transmission of COVID-19, at best they reduce the initial symptoms to the extent that the likelihood
of death is reduced. Yet, the Government proceeded with dropping all health initiatives as soon as
the vaccine was administrated, as if it was the panacea that we were all hoping for. When
conditions change (i.e. vaccine not preventing transmission) then we need to change our plans.
The Government has not. Instead, the express reason we were all so careful initially, mass
transmission, has been adopted as a health response when evidence is clearthatthe initial
concerns of the health professionals that mass transmission leads to virus mutation and reducing
effectiveness of existing vaccines has been proventrue.
What protection is provided by the available vaccines is also poorly distributed. The Government
has decided our children are not worth vaccinating. Their only vaccine doses were administered
almost 2 years ago and now offer no protection. Elsewhere in the developed world, children have
received boosters and current vaccines. The Government has chosen forourchildren to be exposed
to the potential of life-long ill health and made COVID-19 infection a certainty. The inaccurate
health messaging with regards to children has amplified the risk. We have heard on repeat from
Government “experts” that children do not get COVID-19, then that children don’t get very sick from
COVID-19 and certainly that children don’t transmit COVID-19. These are all lies. The scientific data
proves the opposite, yet the Government has done nothing to address and reverse the prevalent
understanding in the community that there is no issue.
I note that there was some effort of correction by the Government in response to the developing
understanding that COVID-19 is an air-borne virus. But the general population still thinks that hand
washing provides them a beneficial protection from COVID-19, while undertaking measures to
provide clean air in indoor spaces and wear masks is too difficult and treats people who try to
promote these effective measures as “extremists”.

The Government’s targeted response specifically excluded supporting our school children. They
were and still are forced into a school environmentthat has insufficient controls to prevent COVID-
19 transmission. Clean air requirements are not mandated or measured. Attendance is upheld over
health. The concomitant impacts of rampant in-school COVID-19 transmission on the widerschool
communities and aging family members are ignored. Our you ng people don’t even understand the
vulnerable position the Government has putthem in due to the constant gas-lighting over the
impacts of COVID-19 that are demonstrated to occur over the longterm. My children continue to
attempt to protect themselves using the only measure they have within their control, masks. In
engineering, personal protective equipment (PPE) is the very bottom ofthe ladderwhen it comes
to effective risk controls. It is a sad state that in Australia that is the best we have to offer our youth,
and only if they have the fortitude and resilience to do it forthemselves.

In engineering terms, we typically assess risks using a matrix to assess the combination ofthe
consequence of an event happening and the likelihood of that outcome. Risks that plot other than
low risk need to have the adequacy ofthe controls assessed and further controls implemented to
lower the risk as part of a formal risk management process. I would suggest that a robust risk
assessment and review of control measures’ effectiveness in mitigating either the likelihood or
severity ofthe health impact be implemented for future pandemic responses. The risk
management process needs to be undertaken with the contribution of suitably experienced and
independent experts and be evidence based. For COVID-19, clean air, masking and population wide
access to current vaccines and antivirals have been demonstrated as effective control measures
and the Governmentshould be focusing on these now.
Sometimes doing the right thing is inconvenient, it is uncomfortable, it is hard. It is therefore
important that we all understand why we need to do these hard things, how they help, how we are
all supported to participate, equitably, and that we are all working together, and then we can
succeed. Just like climate change. We need to bring everyone with us to be successful. That is
leadership. That is what we need from the Government in response the current and future
pandemics.

Sincerely,
