I write to put forward my views concerning this enquiry.
In my experience and of those of others close to me we believe the management of the
COVID issue was grossly and dishonourably handled by the Federal Government on many
fronts.

Teachers, health care workers along with many other industries and services experienced
bold and widespread discrimination from the government itself as well as from the
influence of the same government on other sections of the society. These workers lost their
jobs and livelihoods (either temporarily or permanently) because they exercised their
constitutional God given rights to determine for themselves what they would or would not
inject into their bodies. Our Constitution clearly states that the people may not be forced or
coerced in any way (including economic coercion) by governments or any other body to take
a substance into their bodies. Not only were these workers threated with suspension
and/or loss of job, they were also punished (discriminated against) when they exercised
their choice, ie. Based upon a God given, Constitutional right to choose, those who chose
differently were treated differently. The government rewarded and punished for the same
right of exercise.

In addition, it was disgraceful that our Constitutional right to cross the borders and travel in
our own country was overridden by government overreach. Families were separated, many
families never got to say goodbye to dying loved ones, people died due to a lack of access to
the nearest hospitals all because the government prevented/made it illegal to pass an
imaginary line. Gross and illegal injustices were carried out by the heavy handed and
irresponsible power-hungry Morrison government in the name of 'safety and protection';
oxymoronic in that so many people were harmed (mentally, emotionally and in some cases
physically) and died as a result of their measures.

Additionally, the financial government waste has had an impact on our nation that will take
generations to correct and will impact families and individuals perhaps permanently. The
psychological, emotional and mental toll outweighs any short term or real benefits that
might have been imagined.
