Firstly, this inquiry seems to be a very poorly veneered and cynical response by
the current government who, when in opposition during 2020 and 2021, called
for an inquiry (possibly even a royal commission) into the handling of the covid
response, but seem to now have seized the opportunity to whitewash the gross
injustices by federal, state and territory governments in Australia.

Presumably, this approach is taken to justify future mishandling and
government abuse of the people of this nation.

That any government can deem it acceptable to deceive and bully its citizens
with a relentless barrage of deceptive, incorrect data and information is
heinous in the extreme.

The federal government encouraged and enabled the states and territories to
do it's bidding and actively supported unwarranted and fruitless lockdowns and
then joined in the assault of deceptive and misleading "information"
(propaganda more like) about injections whose efficacy was initially touted as a
guarantee of immunity from the "disease" to a later, "it helps reduce the
effects", and the denial and lack of acknowledgement of the harm inflicted by
the injections is criminal and treasonous in the highest degree.

The fact that the former opposition, now in government, is allowing such a
minimal inquiry as this farcical effort only serves to bolster the view that the
governments of this land have gotten out of hand and become a law unto
themselves and highlights their disregard for the people of this nation.

The federal government also enabled and supported the actions of the TGA
and AHPRA who acted outside the interests of the wellbeing of people and
served to promote an external agenda by denying access to efficacious
treatment alternatives, and brutally silencing voices who questioned the pre­
determined approach. There was NO healthcare.

The attempts to gloss over the failed actions of the federal, state and territory
governments will, ultimately, be the undoing of this government. You had the
chance to do good. But have taken the cowards' path. Shame on you.

It is high time that you did the right thing and established a royal commission
to investigate the entirety of the handling of this matter and actually serve the
people of Australia.
