                  Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry



Vaccine procurement and secret vaccine contracts - why were these contracts
secret? They were not in the interest of the Australian people and indemnity was
given for an experimental product that many of us felt was not right for them.

Vaccine mandates were forced on the Australian people and were blindly followed
done in lockstep all over the world. The countries that did not do this to their people
fared the best in this overcontrol situation.

There was no evidence mandates would help in anyway and made the situation
worse. There were only a very few politicians and senators who spoke up for the
people and they are now heroes. The others followed the ridiculous decisions to lock
people up and it became clear they had not used their critical thinking or common
sense, and now their place in parliament is questioned by many - to the extent of a
no confidence in any of the political parties. They showed what kind of people they
were, which was not for the people but rather to keep their jobs instead. They will
never be forgiven and should all be expelled from parliament.

The mandates saw a different type of police dressed in black who were very
aggressive. People were arrested, beaten up and fined for not wearing a mask or
being outside in the fresh air and sitting down. Anyone would have a mind would
recognise fresh air and sunshine is what a plant needs and so does a human.
Limiting people to enjoying their basic human rights was a crime against humanity.

I was living               at the time and there were police patrolling the streets to
keep people in fear and controlled. After some time the pressure was transferred
from eastern suburbs to the Western suburbs in Sydney. I had friends in Western
suburbs who have lived through communism and they were very scared. Meanwhile
in^^Hthere were thousands of people partying at the beach.

No one has the right to coerce others to take part in an experiment, with an unknown
substance that had no long or short-term studies. Many people had this substance
injected into them against their wishes and without informed consent. The packaging
was blank, and doctors were coerced to not give the correct information. People
have lost their respect of Doctors for putting money before their clients well-being as
they were scared of losing their job. I know a cardiovascular surgeon, midwife and
ambulance driver who all lost their jobs, plus many more. SES workers were not able
to volunteer during the floods, teachers were either coerced or left their careers.
Many people were coerced to leave their job and relocate and have still not
recovered from this government over reach. And now a massive surge of
immigration when thousands of Australians are left homeless and unemployed. What
are you doing about this?

The people were lied to that the injections were safe and effective and they were not,
there was no evidence to say this only a marketing campaign. Any politician that
blindly followed this campaign, should be held responsible for the personal injuries
and damage to the Australian people and economy. The Government misinformation


                                                                                          1
in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection and transmission
along with denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured is unforgivable. I
know several young women have taken part in these experimental injections have
experienced miscarriages and still births at an alarming number. Where is the
research into this?


Vaccine injuries - personally I know many people whose health has deteriorated
after these experimental injections and others who have died soon after. The
government is ignoring the excess deaths data and are not looking into it, yet they
shut down the whole country. There was no open debate on the Government run
ABC - this was all controlled by the government. I have 3 friends who died soon
after the injections and I was not able to submit this information to the TGA as I did
not have their power of attorney. It is a well known fact less than 10% of injuries are
even reported. The injections should be stopped immediately. Never given to
pregnant women as they were not tested on them, or small children who didn’t need
them as they have a robust immune system. There is no follow up research to
understand who those who have had these injections are constantly catching colds
and flues. Shame on you. Why is this data not being reviewed. New Zealand has
released some damning data that is being censored and as the government who is
speaking for the people if not you?

The AHPRA lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the
vaccine and their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession is
wrong. An organisation who is funded by private interests should not have the say of
what goes on in a country. Where is your discernment to see that this is
unacceptable.

Who decided to do the opposite of the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for
Pandemic Influenza, which prophetically described why all of the actions the
Government did take would not work and would cause hardship?

We need answers, not a whitewash. You need to speak up for the country and use
your common sense to see what has happened and have the courage to support the
people rather than your pay packet.

Speak up and don’t just follow the party guidelines to keep your jobs at the peril of
Australian people who you are to serve. I would like you to reflect on what support
you gave your constituents at this time. I left the city and relocated to a country town.
The local government reps were nowhere to be seen at a time of need, when people
were being bullied by their own government. The older people in the town were very
frightened and we needed to have secret meetings to support them. Why did the
churches close down as well, because they were afraid to lose their funding?

The Australian people have not recovered and the media funded by the government
and other private interests are leading people from one fear to the next. Instead of
bringing back unity into the community, we were further divided with this YES
campaign.




                                                                                          2
Shame on anyone who did not speak up for the people of this once great country
you are responsible for destroying it and should do many hours of community service
as well as leave parliament for being traitors to the people.

Even supporting this rushed enquiry is not supporting the people and any cover ups
will further destroy the cohesion of this land. Stand up and speak up and dare to be
different to the sponsored government rhetoric.




                                                                                       3
