Submission Re Covid 19

This letter is to cover my concerns re the response to Covid 19 by the Australian Government, both past
and present.

    1.   Lockdowns which created huge surges in mental health issues Australia wide due to isolation
         and lack of community. The inability of the general population to visit loved ones in nursing
         homes or those sick in hospital.
    2.   The banning of preventative safe medications such as Ivermectin (Nobel Peace prize winner)
         and Hydroxychloroquine, along with zinc and vitamins C and D, which proved to work in many
         countries.
    3.   The mandating (against the Nuremburg Code) of experimental, untested vaccines which have
         proved since to have extremely debilitating side effects in all age groups. Peri-Carditis, Myo­
         Carditis, blot clots and now turbo cancers appearing in all age groups. In addition to this,
         removing people's rights to jobs, careers etc, if they failed to take these products.
    4.       Failing to listen to respected Physicians such                                       many
         others, who warned of such issues from the outset.
    5.   Mask mandates, when medical research showed that these masks, not only failed to stop the
         transmission of the disease, but restricted the flow of oxygen to the wearer, creating breathing
         issues, brain fog and lung problems. Not only this but also creating a massive litter problem due
         o failure to dispose of these properly.

Once things started to return to some semblance of normality, they have continued to push the toxic
treatments, despite many other countries stopping the use of the vaccines and started scientific
research into the side effects. They have also failed to respond to queries by the public, members of
parliament and concerned medical staff by refusing to engage in scientific debate or any discussion as to
the efficacies of their choice of treatments throughout the Covid response period.

Finally, they are now (Labor Government) planning to sign Australia up to the WHO Pandemic
Preparedness Treaty (Backed by UN and WEF) without any consultation with the people of Australia.

All this leans towards a government that is not acting in the interests of the Australian public and
believes that they have the right to make decisions with long lasting ramifications for the sovereignty
and freedom of this great (free) nation.

An enquiry by an independent group is needed now, to ensure that these gross miscarriages of justice
never occur again. Our veterans have fought in numerous wars to preserve out rights and freedoms, and
it became obvious during Covid that everything that they fought for was a waste of time, if the
government can override these freedoms when they feel the need.

Yours faithfully
