In light of the detrimental impact that measures to 'contain COVID' has had upon my family,
friends and colleagues alone, calls for an urgent need for a Royal Commission, not just an
inquiry.

The following points need detailed investigation as part of the Royal Commission.

The secret contracts between those involved in the COVID fiasco including Premiers,
politicians, health ministers, the department of health with drug manufacturers must be
exposed to the public. Transparency is needed in regard to money that exchanged hands,
the reasoning behind why drug companies are indemnified and the lack of truth telling with
how COVID 'cases' were reported with the intention of creating fear in the population. Why
were people working with NDIS money for example, paid to take those with disabilities to
receive a COVID shot? Why are doctors and hospitals paid for having patients who were
reportedly infected with COVID and who died with COVID- although at the time it was
described as 'from COVID'. Where exactly did the flu go during the COVID years? Why has
there been an increase in deaths across all age groups and why is there now a higher
incidence of cancer?

Mandates placed on teachers, nurses and people in western Sydney to force them to take
the experimental COVID 'vaccines' as a way of utilising the shots that had already been pre­
purchased. The fact that PCR tests which are still in use today are not fit for purpose but are
great to ensure the result looked for is achieved. House arrests, arrests for not wearing a
mask while in the open air that have been proven NOT to stop transmission and the
associated police violence and manhandling that occurred from the draconian 'laws' put in
place. I personally lost my job and career on account of mandates placed on teachers.



Lies that the vaccines prevented infection and would stop transmission when this was
revealed as not being the case. The way that the public were publicly ridiculed, censored,
labelled and shut down for asking questions and for wanting professional discussions and
evidence from reputable medical practitioners, virologists and immunologists rather than
the repetitive phrases that were used incessantly to brain wash the people into being fearful
and in believing what they had heard so many times. The fact that social media platforms
were instructed to take down certain posts, messages and shared posts under the control of
'fact checkers'. Who paid these fact checkers and where did these people or bots come
from?




Why was AHPRA in the business of gagging doctors from making reports by making the
process too time intensive and challenging to do and through threatening them with loss of
position? Why were medications such as Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquin actively blocked
and removed from sale in Australia?

Why have the large number of injuries and deaths been ignored? I have seen the photos and
the stories of thousands of people negatively affected by the vaccines, by the lock downs
and lack of ability to breathe in a stuffy mask. Why have suicide rates increased across all
age groups? My own son had to study from home while doing a university degree and now
at the end of it he does not have the skills needed from a job in the field he chose to study.
He was by the way mandated to receive at least 2 COVID vaccines to keep his
■ and then had to PCR test and later, RAT test prior to entering his work place each day. On
top of this all workers had to wear an electronic bracket so their whereabouts could be
tracked. Was this all an experiment?

Politicians weren't mandated to get the vaccine to go to work- on what basis was this? Why
have politicians been excluded from an inquiry? I would like to see them included in a royal
commission because they actively made laws and rules that they themselves flaunted and
when they had enough of their time in office they appeared to jump ship? Why do many of
those in power have links to pharmaceutical boards or companies? And most politicians who
have left their roles are now given high ranking positions.

The fact that the media, the politicians and those orchestrating the entire operation acted in
unison around the world demonstrates that there was a game plan in action. The fact that
there seems to be a push for a 'New World Order', for surveillance and 'health passports'
under the guise of 'world health' when nothing is done about the homeless, those starving
around the world and that small businesses were targeted for destruction while the bigger
corporate operations were allowed to continue business as usual.

Why was Macdonald's open for business while gyms were closed? Why was standing up
drinking fine but sitting down was not? The way that COVID payments were calculated were
a farce - as an example, staff where I worked who normally worked a 9 or a 13.5 hour week
were paid near double than what they usually earnt. The waste of money was astronomical.
Our poor future generations will be left to cover this enormous bill. Another question to ask
is 'where did all of this money come from' all of a sudden?

I am a mere member of the general public and I think that I am a representative of what
many other members of the public are thinking. There are too many questions left
unanswered and too many actions that were taken that made no sense. This is why I am
calling for a Royal Commission with truth telling as the focus.
