Introduction:

Dorothy Johnstone, Mrs.
Address: Victoria


Re: Covid-19 Response Inquiry - Submission

Impacted by the following


ALL CAUSED BY CORRUPT INDIVIDUALS IN GOVERNMENTS ALLOWING UNTESTED VACCINES TO BE
IMPLEMENTED UNDER ILLEGAL MANDATES


-illegal mandates and total lack of respect for the law in relation to freedom - international, national
(e.g. borders were restricted), being in locked for years by a tyrannical leader - at one point unable
to travel more than 5 kilometres without so called permission, the constant barrage of lies in the
media and online by so called health professionals and politicians creating fear in people and the
pushing of masks. I am a level headed person, in my 60's, but twice broke out in a sweat in Coles in a
mild panic attack as I felt my breathing was restricted.


- the overriding of rights - e.g. the right to refuse vaccinations based on religious beliefs, personal
opinion, or medical reasons. I am a healthy individual, and did not want to comply with an untested
vaccine


-loss of employment for refusing to be vaccinated. I have still not been able to work in my chosen
profession of Case Management for Home Care Packages due to companies following outrageous
policies for so called compliance. This has substantially affected my earning capacity even now,
which has affected my husband and myself and my family


-the inability to access services due to refusing to be vaccinated whilst the ridiculous mandates were
on - the unvaccinated weren't even allowed to go to the hairdresser! We couldn't do simple things
like enter a restaurant!


-the loss of privacy - people in positions asking if you are vaccinated that have no authority other
than the illegal mandates


-the sense of insanity in the population for not listening to the voices of reason - censorship
contributed to this. Those censoring concerns raised about these illegal demands for so called
vaccinations need to be held accountable at every level


-those who have refused to be vaccinated are mostly still unemployed - organizational policies
requesting vaccination need to change quickly

ISSUES I AM CONCERNED ABOUT

    1.    Australian Sovereignty needs to rule. Individuals who illegally and unjustly dominate others
          should be removed, and their assets seized. Laws need to be put in place to ensure what
          happened never happens again, and every agreement with external international bodies
          such as WHO need to be revoked



Page | 1
   2.   A database should be established of every person who has been 'vaccinated', and general
        public information provided as to the health issues and death rate for every batch


   3.   Research should be done as to the treatment for individuals who have died in hospital - the
        money trail should be followed, especially where following the so called


   4.   It needs to be explained to the population why effective treatments were demonised and
        withheld. Access should be enabled to those treatments as a matter of urgency


   5.   Every person who has been vaccinated should have access to their individual information
        about the 'vaccine' that they received, with potential effects


   6.   A database collecting information via survey research questionnaires should be accessible to
        the public to enable unrecorded information and side effects


   7.   Urgent research needs to be conducted by honest researchers - especially the ones speaking
        out against the illegal 'vaccines' for effective treatments to override the effects - e.g. how
        has DNA been affected and how can corruptions to DNA be removed safely, how to improve
        the known health effects such as heart issues, reproductive issues, brain fog, cancer, etc


   8.   EVERY organization requiring employees to be 'vaccinated' should be investigated. Did they
        receive money, and if so, how much money did they receive for each employee? These
        organizations need to be exposed, and employees compensated.


   9.   URGENTLY, RIGHT NOW - every organization needs to have ANY demand for vaccination
        made illegal, including e.g. flu vaccinations, childhood vaccinations, etc.


    10. Where the judiciary supported and ruled in favour of vaccinations in Australia there should
        be accountability. Positions should be lost, and the law should be imposed on their false
        opinions- IF they have not been vaccinated themselves, they have proven themselves to be
        corrupt already


    11. ALL companies producing these vaccinations should be held accountable for misleading
        information, and their profits should be removed and redistributed to affected individuals


    12. APHRA needs to be investigated, and thrown out as a standard for registration. Links with
        corrupt officials need to be exposed. HONEST medical professionals who have lost their jobs
        need to be invited back to employment in their chosen professional, and they should be
        compensated for their loss of income


    13. ALL politicians pushing the vaccines should be publicly identified and held accountable at
        every level - were they vaccinated themselves? Any money trails need to be investigated
        and exposed, and forfeited!


    14. The media itself needs a thorough overhaul. Repressing the truth should be illegal. Laws
        need to change in this area quickly. ADS ADVERTISING 'VACCINES' NEED TO BE REMOVED.
           MEDIA SHOULD BE TELLING THE TRUTH TO THE POPULATION ABOUT SIDE EFFECTS!!!



Page | 2
