My name Is Patrizia Barcatta, and I am a single mother oi|and help to care for

I will be touching on three areas:

Community Supports

Never place the elderly or the mentally ill in this awful position again.

Allow the elderly to stay with family or staff who are willing to take the risk of caring for them, so they do
not have to deal with the isolation or die alone. In fact, allow all people this option. Individual risk is just
that, it is not up to the government to decide for you. I understand wanting to stop the spread. Safety
measures can be enforced without brute force. The community has lost trust in the system. This needs
to be repaired.



Governance, including roles and responsibilities.

Transparency and accountability were absent.

There should be a separate peoples cabinet or assembly that have access to the information and can
work together with the government to produce a course of action that is tempered with common sense
instead of fear. Cooler heads should prevail.

Government should not be allowed to just change legislation without proper public consultation - not at
any time. Using the excuse of a medical emergency is not acceptable.

Daniel Andrews went too far. He said he had to make hard decisions. He crossed the line and then used
the police to enforce his barbaric rules. There was no accountability for these actions and there should
be.

The culture of fear and toxicity in the government was clear for all to see. There was no real leadership,
just control. It should not be left up to one person or a small group of people. Especially those who do
not have the expertise. Those who were providing the advice to the government should have been able
to provide this information without fear nor favour. Everyone was made to tow the line publicly even if
they did not agree privately. This should never be allowed to happen again.



Key health response measures

We cannot rely on one sphere of influence when it comes to health response measures.

Each of the decision makers and/or advice should be given from completely separate powers/groups.

There needs to be a separate overseer that is not controlled by government. A group that cannot be
influenced or threatened into towing the line/government narrative.
Real medical professionals with experience should be allowed to give advice without fear of losing the
right to practice. Especially about new medication that has been rushed to market without the proper
safety information.

Better protocols should be in place to allow people the time to be advised about medicines and then
sign off on this before they are made to take an experimental drug.

There is no situation in which the protocols in place at a hospital or doctor surgery should override the
right to make an informed decision about your own health. That is exactly what happened during the
pandemic. Now people have lost trust in the system. This will have to be rectified.

Sensitive medical information has always been private - between a patient and a doctor. This was
infringed upon. No one needs to know about your health in such a public manner.

No one should be able to discriminate against you for your own personal health decisions.

There are laws in place for such an occasion - but it was not used during the pandemic. Laws were
specifically ignored when it came to personal rights. This is not acceptable.
