I am an ex RN and from early 2020 followed the government’s Covid response with incredulity
and alarm..

As a recently retired RN I had been automatically re registered on the pandemic sub register.

I therefore had a valid AHPRA number which gave me access to websites for interested health
professionals. I could see how conflicted the medical profession were about the mass
vaccination campaign and I also saw how they were effectively silenced from any criticism of
government policy.

In hindsight it is easy for anyone to see how the dangers of Covid were grossly overblown in
order to convince the general public to accept the Covid vaccines. .

The Covid “pandemic” has totally altered my view of government, the health system and the
media and I know many people who have had the same experience.

I had never in the past questioned the efficacy or safety of vaccines

The problem lies with the sheer power of the pharmaceutical industry and how they have
managed to infiltrate every level of the health industry..The fact that our chief regulatory agency
the TGA is almost entirely funded by the pharmaceutical industry speaks volumes..

  Every level of our health system is riven with conflicts of interest. From the medical schools to
the medical journals to the GP clinics and hospitals the influence of Big Pharma is everywhere

The TGA must be disbanded and a new body set up which is totally free of conflicts of interest.
All members of vaccine advisory committees must be totally transparent about conflicts of
interest.

The beauty of Covid is that it has laid bare the true state of our health system.

It has caused many people to question not only the Covid vaccines but also the entire childhood
vaccination schedule.. I think there is now a large body of the general public who are distrustful
of govt and media. The next time a “pandemic” emerges there will be a much more sceptical
populace. Many people will be reluctant to accept another mass vaccination campaign

Many people are asking, is all this vaccination really necessary , or is there some very
lucrative over vaccination going on, with the assistance of governments and the medical/scientific
establishment?



There is a strong movement for change

There are many health professionals who are looking for a new way...let them speak and let
them lead the way.
