                     Commonwealth Government Covid-19 Response Inquiry Submission -

First, let me express that it is self-defeating to the purpose of this Inquiry to have scheduled the timing of Response
Submissions for one of the busiest weeks of the calendar year for ordinary Australians to be able to participate. In addition,
the response window and due date of 15th December is far too short. If the Government is wanting wide and informative
responses and meaningful public consultation, then they should provide a month-long window for Australians to do so, rather
than intentionally scheduling it at a time of year when most people don't have sufficient time to respond to it.

I have so many issues and concerns around the Government's handling of Covid-19 that I could not possibly fit them within
the 3 pages you have allowed me, but I will list some of the most concerning to me:

1.        Lack of Commonwealth leadership and governance - The Federal Government washed their hands of much of each
State's individual response protocols. The lack of a unilateral approach caused immense chaos and confusion to Australians
(e.g. where a person worked in one State with its own rules and lived across a State Border where the rules were different, this
was unworkable, and heartlessly unreasonable in countless peoples' circumstances). The Prime Minister's only response was
to say that he had no authority or responsibility over each State's rules. His silence implied agreement, however Federal law
supersedes State law, so why wouldn't he intervene and give leadership? He is our elected leader, is he not? The Federal
Government was complicit in allowing States to violate human rights.

2.       Key health response measures -

Covid Vaccinations - Our Government copied the response of other countries by pinning their hopes solely oi^he
effectiveness of the vaccines and advocated this as the only method of prevention. This was wrong. In fact,^^^|own
Website now states that its Covid-19 vaccine doesn't protect recipients, and is also proven to increase the risk of myocarditis
and pericarditis. Billions of dollars were spent on these vaccines, that over time have not only been proved to be ineffectual in
preventing transmission and severity of symptoms, but have now been proven to increase the risk of Covid infection. More
devastating though, is that they have been proved to cause death and permanent long-term adverse reactions in vast and
increasing numbers as time goes by - even moreso than the deathrate from the virus. Senator                   in the USA has
shown evidence that there have been more adverse reactions to the Covid-19 vaccinations than to all other vaccines
combined. Their use should be totally eradicated. The risk of the side effects of the vaccines far outweigh their benefits for a
virus that had a 99.6% survival rate. They are not "safe and effective" as the Government promised.

It is wrong that the Government has absolved the vaccine manufacturers from any liability. No manufacturer should be
granted immunity from prosecution for its products, no matter who they are or what the product. If they believe in their
product and are making money from selling it, then they should be liable for it, as is every other manufacturer in the
marketplace.

The Government ignored the advice of Australia's own experts in their fields as to the dangers of the vaccines, and instead
held to the opinions and advice of "health experts" such as the World Health Organisation, and held up ^^^^^^^^^|and
^^^^flas the foremost authorities, who were displayed on our media channels. It is of great concern to me that there are
huge conflict-of-interest issues with these parties. They all had a vested interest in the vaccines being bought and used en
masse. They have received enormous personal financial gain from them and I am highly sceptical that their advice was not
tainted by that, and their own personal beliefs and motivations arising from their association with the World Economic Forum
- an Organisation that openly shares a desire                                    These people are unelected bureaucrats that have
massive influence on a global scale. It is unethical for them to be giving advice in areas where they gain financial or personal
reward, and our Government should have relied on impartial expert advice from other independent sources. Conflict of
interest is not allowed in the legal profession, yet it appears to be rife in the medical and pharmaceutical industries, where Big
Pharma are major financial contributors to organisations from which they need approvals. It must be banned.

The negative health impacts of these vaccines are now beginning to become more evident in the lives of everyday people in
Australia. I have read countless cases of people who have been vaccine-injured, who have been betrayed and let down by the
medical system, and are still fighting in many cases to have their reactions recorded as vaccine injuries because their medical
professionals refuse to acknowledge it for fear of losing their licence to practice medicine. Who is helping all of these poor
people who truste^h^Govemment^ei^i^n^Tealth^i^/accinadon^nd are now dealing with these increasingly
prevalent issues^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Guillain-Barre Syndrome, have had an
aggressive                            now have myocarditis, pericarditis, or an                      It is widely accepted
that only around 1% of all adverse reactions are reported on the VAERS database, which means that the number shown there
is vastly unacknowledged and inaccurate.

During the restrictions I was horrified to read the story of               who presented at a hospital for treatment for her
own bad^^^H with her^^^^^^^l and the                      was taken from her care simply because she was not vaccinated - the
hospital deeming that she was endangering the child. There are not enough words to express how horrific that situation was
to me, and your Committee needs to ensure that is never able to happen again. No authority should ever be allowed to come
between a parent and a child on the basis of a vaccination, because it is the parent's decision alone and no-one else's.

Lack of use of already available preventative protocols - In my opinion the Government has been negligent in not advocating
immune-boosting protocols to help Australians prepare for and fight off symptoms of the virus (such as the FCCC protocol)
that have proven to be highly effective and far less expensive than the vaccines. The fact that the Government banned the use
of Hydroxychloroquine and Ivermectin (a widely used, safe, inexpensive medication with a long-term proven track record and
Nobel Peace Prize Award winning medication) was deplorable, and raises glaring questions as to why. Withholding their use
was a violation of the Australian people's rights to medical care.

Classification of Essential Services during Lockdowns - It is not rational that a bottle shop should be classified as an essential
service and allowed to stay open during a lockdown, but a church was not. There should never be a circumstance where the
ability to buy alcohol takes precedence over an individuals' right to exercise their freedom of religion. This was a violation of
our rights. If the Government was at all interested in people's wellbeing, they should have never allowed that to happen,
because the benefits to a person's spiritual, mental and emotional health from exercising their faith can never be measured
and should never be dismissed or allowed to be restricted in any way.

Mask Mandates - The Government told us that masks prevented transmission and would save lives, but a recent study in
Norway actually reveals the opposite. They monitored 3,209 participants over a 17-day period for their mask usage habits and
saw an increase in Covid positivity among frequent mask users to over 15%. The study concludes a higher likelihood of Covid
infection among people who regularly wear masks. In May 2020,                           own Institute concluded that masks did
not work due to differences in scale. Additionally, the forced wearing of masks had other detrimental effects - breathing
difficulties, skin rashes, anxiety, depression, speech delays in children. They should never have been mandated at all, and each
individual should have been allowed the freedom to wear them or not, based on whether the individual personally believed
them to be effective or not. Coercing the population to wear them was a violation of human rights and freedoms.

PCR & RAT tests - These tests were the only diagnosis tool that the Government relied on, but they were never designed to be
a diagnostic tool at all, and policies should never have beei^lesiened based on their results. Health departments ran PCR tests
up to 40 cycles, when even the inventor of PCR tests,                     had stated that "they are not to be used for diagnostic
purposes and do not of themselves indicate anything at all regarding whether a person is ill or infected, and that after 24
cycles, the test is practically useless for diagnostic purposes, since at that point they cannot demonstrate whether the virus is
capable of reproducing itself and will result in false positives." Source - Spectator Australia article of 16th May 2021 ("How
Accurate are PCR tests?" by
There was so much riding on the results of these tests. A positive result could literally mean the end of a person's business or
hopes for life-saving surgery. There were so many false positives where a person had absolutely no symptoms at all and they
were forced into isolation and had their life negatively impacted for no reason.

Quarantine measures - The quarantine measures for people returning to Australia from overseas were far too stringent.
People were literally locked up for 2 weeks in isolation, with barely any human interaction - most times needlessly. The
Government has a lot to answer for with this, the wasted resources dedicated to facilitate it, and the mental health of these
people. There were far better solutions that could have been implemented than what they allowed to be mandated.

QR Code Check-in - On 15th March 2022, NSW Premier^^^^^^^^^Badmitted that QR codes were reintroduced around
the State in response to a media fear campaign and that the decision had "no science behind it at all." Authorities "weren't
even tracking and tracing". In the same speech he admitted that RAT tests were provided to schools against NSW Health
wishes, purely to give parents and schools peace of mind. Political leaders admitted that they weren't always "following the
science" on Covid policy, but satiating public fear created by a dishonest media. QR Code check-in was another policy that
Governments introduced and coerced the population to comply with to instil the fear of imminent infection and assure
compliance and control. It felt like we were living in a Communist regime, knowing that our every movement was being
tracked and traced - an invasion of our privacy and personal freedom.

Vaccine Mandates-The Government has been grievously in error in implementing and supporting these Mandates which
have caused untold devastating emotional, mental, physical, social and economic harm to hundreds of thousands of people.
No entity or person has the right to violate an individual's rights to their own bodily autonomy or of those over which that
person has legal responsibility (i.e. their children). To coerce, intimidate, victimise or disparage them to do otherwise is a
violation of personal freedoms and the Nuremberg Code. For the Government to allow a person's employment to be made
void by introducing a third-party Condition Subsequent to their terms of employment is tantamount to kidnapping their
employment until they pay the ransom of getting vaccinated. This is surely morally repugnant to most Australians. If
vaccinations lived up to the Government's promise, then they would not need to conspire to coerce people to have them. The
mandates must be abolished because the vaccines are ineffective and no-one should be made to be subject to a medical
procedure against their will as a condition forced upon them subsequent to their previously agreed terms of employment.
Violations of human rights and Nuremberg Code - I fear for the future of our society that has now come to the point of
legalising the violation of human rights by creating legislation to negate it to suit Government's agendas. These rights and
codes were specifically created to protect individuals from events such as what has just occurred. We either respect and
uphold them, or there is no point in them existing. If we are serious about them, policies or orders that violate them must
never be considered or implemented again, no matter the reason.

Censorship of the medical profession - Individuals who wanted more information about the vaccines were told to go and see
their health professionals, yet those professionals were not free to provide advice from their own experiences because they
were being coerced via the threat of loss of their licence if they gave any advice outside of the Government narrative. By doing
so, the Government has censored those professionals and denied them the right of freedom of speech to their patients. It is
only those medical professionals who are in the position to be able to share firsthand what they have seen presented in
patients who have been vaccinated, and thereby be able to form an opinion. Not permitting them to openly share this
information makes a mockery of their oath to "do no harm" and whitewashes the doctor/patient privilege and trust
relationship. Threatening their licences implies that the Government didn't believe the vaccines could stand on their own
merits. If they were as safe and effective as they stated, medical professionals would not have needed any threats to
recommend them. It is simply reprehensible that the Government has used the medical profession and mandated it to
promote their agenda with threats. It has destroyed all trust in the entire medical profession and in Government.

"Pandemic of the Unvaccinated" - The treatment of the critical thinkers in our societies who adopted a wait-and-see approach
towards vaccination was utterly deplorable, and it brought out the worst in human nature. Government leaders stated that
the unvaccinated were irresponsible and a danger to society, that they should have no right to medical care, should be
ostracised from society, and that they were all going to die anyway. Vaccinated people seemed to think that the unvaccinated
were walking around incubating Covid, that they were spreading everywhere they went. If the vaccines were effective, the
vaccinated should have felt assured that they were protected, because that's the whole premise of vaccination. In truth, the
only people who could pass Covid on were those who were infected - whether vaccinated or not. Towards the end of 2021 as
the vaccine mandates began to take effect in the education and medical sectors, private businesses began to deny entry to the
unvaccinated - even hospitals and doctor's surgeries, and people were denied life-saving surgeries because they were
unvaccinated. It segregated society in such a harmful way and the mental and emotional damage caused will never be able to
be measured. Latest studies now show that unvaccinated people pose less threat of Covid to the vaccinated than vaccinated
people, and a study from UKHSA Vaccine Surveillance Report of 27th February 2022, shows that vaccinated individuals are up
to 3.2 times more likely to die of Covid than the unvaccinated.

I believe that any political leader who openly defamed the unvaccinated should be removed from leadership, because they
advocated and promoted acts of hate and malice due to incorrect information. There is much that can be learnt and studied
from that portion of society that chose not to be vaccinated, and it would be wise and valuable for any government to do so.
Therefore, perhaps the unvaccinated deserve an apology for their treatment in light of this new evidence, and recognition for
their fortitude in the face of extreme pressure and adversity, for being prepared to make their own hard decision to confront
the virus with their own immune system. An individual must always have the freedom to choose what they put into their body,
without fear of reprisal, victimisation or segregation from society because of that choice. The risk should always be a decision
of the individual.

3.       Broader health issues - I have many^^^B/vho were so grateful to flee Victoria, who acknowledge that they now
suffer from       directly related to the lockdowns, the aggressive Police presence and the assault on their personal freedoms.
The mental health of every Australian has been challenged due to the limitations placed on us by the Government which has
resulted in an increase in ongoing mental health issues, depression, anxiety, suicide, domestic violence and family breakdown.
The Government's decision to impose the restriction of people's personal freedoms makes them responsible for this. They
used power that was never given to them to violate human rights and the Nuremburg Treaty based on little or no independent
evidence by means of fear mongering, bullying, violence and coercion, and they have completely lost the people's trust.

4.       International Policies - In March 2021,1 applied to leave Australia to attend my                  wedding in Europe,
but was declined. As a result, she had no family members or friends with her on her wedding day - not one. It is incongruous
that Australians needed permission at all. This is a democratic nation and we have a basic human right to be allowed to move
around freely. The Government violated that right. It should have been an individual's own decision as to whether they
wanted to leave Australia and risk infection. It was not the Government's right to deny that of anyone and has exacerbated the
amount of trauma the public has endured at the hands of these lockdowns.

There are so many lessons to be learnt from what the Federal Government allowed to occur during our Covid response, and I
sincerely hope that they find themselves able to listen to alternative viewpoints openly, because it's only through doing that,
that we gain wisdom and find the truth. I hope you are given the freedom to look outside the Government narrative for
yourselves with this Review and find better ways to lead our Nation through any situation like this again that won't take away
an individual's rights to make their own choices, to maintain their rights to freedoms of movement, speech, information,
expression, and religion, and to maintain their bodily autonomy without threat or consequences.
