As a quick introduction, I’m Justin, a researcher and former public servant with a strong
interest in protecting Australia’s economic stability and national security. I have tertiary
education and/or research experience in public health, molecular biology and artificial
intelligence. I’m also a resident of Melbourne, and was directly affected by various mishaps
during the COVID-19 response (e.g. outbreaks from quarantine facilities).




“As the Ebola and Zika crises showed, managing pandemics is a global responsibility, but
too much planning is still national, and little attention is paid to worst-case scenarios. ”
    - A 2017 quote from Oxford researcher Sebastian Farquar

I’ve long been concerned by such calls from experts for Governments to be more proactive
in addressing risks from pandemics. I believe we have been relatively lucky in avoiding
catastrophic pandemics - as damaging as COVID-19 turned out to be, it is nevertheless still
considered to have been a “dress-rehearsal” for more serious pandemics1.

To illustrate this point, the recent pandemic was mild enough that civilian populations were
ordered to stay home, and threatened with punishments for not doing so. As experts have
warned2, a more serious pandemic would be characterised by essential workers refusing to
leave their homes, causing a widespread breakdown of supply chains and essential services
- these are the scenarios that the Inquiry must be cognisant of.

There are tangible of examples of how this might arise: the H5N1 avian influenza is over
50% lethal in humans3, and mutations that increase its transmissibility (which have been
shown in laboratory settings4) would have grave consequences for public safety. Another
horror-story example is the naturally occurring Calicivirus in rabbits, with a fatality rate of
90% in adults, and the ability to spread extremely easily through populations, especially
because of lower death rates in younger rabbits.

I’ve often heard professionals in the biotechnology industry joke that they could bring
civilisation to its knees by engineering a super-virus of this kind and releasing it at an airport.
The fact that this hasn’t occurred yet is pure luck; the scientifically advanced terrorist group
Aum Shinrikyo, active in the 80’s and 90’s, narrowly missed out on having access to the
technology necessary to do this. Their best option at the time was to release anthrax
aerosols over a large city, or capture a live sample of ebola from Africa - both of which they
invested resources into doing.

As an Australian citizen, the risk from extreme pandemics is the #1 factor that makes me
fear for the safety of myself and of loved ones. It’s also the reason I am very excited about
the move to establish the new CDC, and this focus of this inquiry on preventing the next
pandemic. Accordingly, there are 3 key priorities that l‘d like to raise for consideration:


1 Early Thoughts on the Pandemic (2020). Sam Harris and Amesh Adalja
2 Gopal et al. Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics
3 Situation Report: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A(H5N1) (2023). National Emerging Special
Pathogens Training and Education Center
4 Fouchier study reveals changes enabling airborne spread ofH5N1. (2012) University of Minnesota
Priority 1: Detection of novel pathogens with pandemic potential

The CDC should prioritise research into the most scalable and targeted methods for
assessing novel pathogens in circulation, including methods such metagenomics (both
clinical and wastewater), CRISPR-based diagnostics, and improvements to and multiplexing
of PCR and LAMP. In particular, monitoring the wastewater of international arrival
aeroplanes is considered to be a low-hanging opportunity for detecting novel pathogens.

The inquiry should also take into consideration the analysis undertaken by the Geneva
Centre for Security Policy, titled “Securing Civilisation Against Catastrophic Pandemics"5.
The authors highlight the realistic dangers from “stealth pandemics” - those arising from
highly virulent pathogens whose worst effects become present after a significant delay. For
any advanced terrorist group that wishes to inflict atrocious casualties on an enemy, a
pathogen of this kind is the best option.

Currently, there is no systematic process for detecting this kind of threat; with the cost of
biotechnology tools decreasing rapidly, we need to begin deploying these capabilities
defensively in order to counteract potential offensive uses. Australian biosecurity researcher
Chelsea Liang outlined some of the relevant policy considerations for implementing this kind
of a monitoring program6.

It goes without saying that these early detection systems wouldn’t be exclusively useful for
engineered pandemics - they would also assist in responding to other sources of pandemics,
such a zoonotic transmission or laboratory leaks. Relatively small-scale programs were
shown to be effective in the later stages of the COVID-pandemic7.

Priority 2: Development and deployment of far-UVC light for indoor quality

I’m sure the Inquiry will already be aware of the rationale behind far-UVC light (it’s ability to
inactivate airborne pathogens but leave humans unharmed) - as a formality I will provide a
relevant citation if further background reading is desirable8.

Suffice to say, there is a significant opportunity to reduce air-born transmission of pathogens
by mandating the deployment of far-UVC lighting in high-risk indoor settings. With current
technology, this isn’t yet cost-effective, but with additional R&D investment this may become
our best line of defence against the spread of infectious diseases.




5 https://www.gcsp.ch/publications/securing-civilisation-against-catastrophic-pandemics
6 Managing the Transition to Widespread Metagenomic Monitoring: Policy Considerations for Future
Biosurveillance, Health Security. (2023) Chelsea Liang et al.
7 Wegryzyn et al (2022) Early Detection of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2
Variants Using Traveler-based Genomic Surveillance at 4 US Airports, September 2021-January
2022, Clinical Infectious Diseases
8 Far-UVC (222 nm) efficiently inactivates an airborne pathogen in a room-sized chamber. (2022)
Eadie et al.
As a matter of priority, the Australian Government should be investigating ways to support
R&D in far-UVC-lighting, and the CDC should begin drafting a strategy for it being rolled-iout
across Australia in anticipation of it becoming a scalable solution.

    •   As pointed out in the Terms of Reference, at-risk populations are an important
        consideration during pandemics, and these devices should be installed ASAP in
        settings as hospitals and nursing homes.
    •   In the medium term, there will be benefits to economic security by installing them in
        transmission sites such as public transport, schools, and airports.
    •   As a long-term strategy, building codes should incorporate requirements for
        installation of far UVC lighting; Governments should also incentivise workplaces to
        install them by reimbursing a proportion of the costs (this is relevant to the ToR point
        of “Support for industry and businesses”).

Priority 3: Take measures to protect critical infrastructure workers during pandemics

The Inquiry should familiarise itself with a paper called “Electric Power Grids Under High-
Absenteeism Pandemics: History, Context, Response, and Opportunities” (Wormuth et al.),
which explains how the energy sector is the critical failure-point for interdependent essential
services, such as water systems, communication networks, transportation systems and
health services9.

The paper points out that COVID-19 was unlike many other historic pandemics because a
majority of deaths occurred in people over 65, while the majority of employees essential to
the continued operation of the power grid are under 65. An extreme pandemic that affects
working-age civilians could precipitate cascading failures of critical infrastructure; this risk is
a feature of our modern infrastructure, which is highly optimised for efficiency and therefore
extremely brittle. For the inquiry to succeed in addressing Terms of Reference one, two and
six, it must secure Australia against this challenge.

In terms of solutions, both Wormuth et al. and Gopal et al. advise that power generators,
transmission providers and distribution providers should have the capability to provide high-
quality PRE to their workers during a crisis. Experts recommend that powered air-purifying
respirators with HEPA filters should be required - asking critical infrastructure workers to
leave their homes during a >20% fatality pandemic with an inferior level of protection would
be wishful thinking.

Conclusion:

I believe that if this Inquiry makes the right recommendations, Australia will be a safer, more
prosperous place for generations to come.

Investments that improve indoor air quality will reduce the baseline level of transmission,
giving society a better chance to “keep the lights on” during mild pandemics such as COVID.
Early detection will allow us to respond more quickly and with greater confidence; and next­


9 Electric Power Grids Under High-Absenteeism Pandemics: History, Context, Response,
and Opportunities
generation PPE in critical infrastructure will ensure that even in the worst case scenarios,
Australia will be able to sustain itself and bounce back.
