Dear Panel,
This submission covers my personal experience of being subjected to the governmental decisions related to the
Covid-19 “pandemic” as well as some conclusions drawn from my research of the medical literature and medical
reports (from various perspectives) available to me at that time.
Many European parliaments have undertaken investigations into the Covid-19 response in their countries. In
Australia, Senators|
         I need to be congratulated on their work to bring very important factual material on the Covid-19 to our
Parliament
A more-in depth inquiry should come under auspices of a Royal Commission.


Opening note
           H a public servant, and a member of the               was appointed to oversee and coordinate the
pandemic response in Australia. She was Chair of the global epidemic vaccine body. She had no medical
qualifications in epidemiology, virology nor immunology that would allow her to properly assess national health
issues and the risks associated with the Covid-19 injections.
However, she represented Australia at the Event 201 (October 18, 2019) that focused on preparedness for a
pandemic of a severe respiratory illness. The meeting was organised by the John Hopkins Centre for Health
Security, together with the Melinda and Bill Gates Foundation that invested heavily in the Covid-19 vaccines and
supported mandatory vaccination. The Foundation’s participation in a pandemic preparation, which included a plan
for mandatory vaccination clearly pointed to a conflict of interest.

My personal experience
Initially, I reacted with great concern and anxiety upon the World Health Organisation’s announcement of the global
pandemic by our media on 13 March 2020, only four days after that media reported on a significant market fall and
the world entering a financial crisis.
In the first days of the “pandemic”, I was shocked to hear a strong message from the WHO that “every man, woman
and child had to be vaccinated” against Covid-19, in spite of “very little knowledge of the disease” (as announced by
the WHO itself) and the unprecedented speed with which the “vaccine” was produced. It was also well known from
the initial statistical data, that the average age of the people who died from Covid in Italy was 83 years of age and
the recovery rate was 97-99.8% depending on age and comorbidities. In this context, it did not make any sense to
undertake a radical, global action to lockdown the whole population, destroy the country’s economy and test and
vaccinate the population, including young children,

As we already knew in early 2021, there was no excess death globally in 2020, the “tragic” year of the pandemic.
This statistical evidence could have been easily checked by any secondary student, but the excess death has been
shown following the rollout of the “vaccine” with the spikes following the boosters. However, the alarmist climate
of threat and pressure to take the injections is maintained by our government and media to this day.

Having migrated to Australia, a free democratic country from an oppressive regime, I was shocked to witness the
brutality of the police shooting rubber bullets at peaceful protesters who had a constitutional right to object to
unreasonable, draconian restrictions that defied proper science. I saw elderly people being capsicum sprayed and
dragged to the police vans. During a peaceful protest in Canberra in February 2022, attended by many families with
young children and babies in prams, people were targeted with an EMF crowd disperser. Myself and many other
people suffered serious burns.
I watched with dismay the horror of my friends who had to make a terrible choice between taking a questionable
“vaccine” or losing their jobs and incomes. I witnessed suffering of people who took the Covid-19 “treatment” and
fell ill afterwards. It was extremely stressful for me to see them being coerced into boosters, in spite of their adverse
reaction to those injections. They described their feelings of being physically violated and psychologically
teiTorised.

Thanks to my interest in medical research and psychology, I was dismayed to hear that staying indoor for many
weeks, often in crowded family settings, without fresh air and sunshine, wearing an ineffective and potentially
harmful mask and being deprived of supporting social contact was the best protective strategy at that time.
As a mother and educator, I was shocked to see empty playgrounds encircled with a police tape - the same tape used
to mark areas of crime. I was appalled to see in the public transport and outdoor places green, round stickers
dictating where people could sit, as if the people were circus animals under strict, cruel training. Somehow, the
“well informed” health agencies forgot about the scientific fact that people naturally disperse in open public places
and on public transport. Keeping comfortable distance from others should have been expected in the created climate
of the virus threat and disease terror.

My friends, myself and my family knew that Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine, the tried, effective and
inexpensive drugs had to be banned to give a green light to the costly, experimental injections which we now know
were also not tested for infection transition and long-term effects.
Underestimating people’s intelligence and common sense indicated Government’s contempt and lack of respect
towards citizens.

One of the most important lessons for me and my family is that one cannot trust the government, its agencies, many
doctors, nurses, phannacists and the official media. The politicians, bureaucrats and media were exaggerating the
threat, passing on misinformation which often involved a mantra repetition - same script, word by word.
The false assurances by Scott Morrison that the “vaccines” were not mandatory, while in practice they have been
mandatory in Health, Education, and many other national and private sectors, were truly outrageous. People like
myself felt betrayed, coerced, angry and resentful.
Those who choose not to submit to draconian, authoritarian measures were ridiculed, ostracised, and labelled anti-
vaxers, right-wing extremists, conspiracy theorists, and old people’s murderers.

A positive outcome of the insane Covid hysteria for me, my family and friends was to discover that there were many
distinguished experts who were courageous to speak out the truth as was a great number of ordinary people who
were capable of correct judgment and applied common sense in response to the created panic.

Summarising, the people of power in most Australian institutions and organisations disqualified themselves by
blindly following directions of the World Health Organisation, either from the fear of losing their positions or from
ignorance of the critical issues in medicine and science.
Our media played an important but shameful role in spreading misinformation and fear. Censorship and lack of an
expert debate indicated to me and many other people that unfortunately Australia became a victim of an
authoritarian system violating our democratic constitution and not acting in the interest of the people.

THE COERCIVE CONTROL AND THE NATIONAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE IMPOSED ON THE
WHOLE POPULATION OF 24 MILLIONS CANNOT BE REPEATED

Suggested recommendations

1. Considering the national importance and urgency of the matter, it is paramount that the conclusions of this
investigation are published well BEFORE MAY 2024 - the date when the WHO signs a legally binding Treaty with
the member states.

2. Exit the World Health Organisation and never again cooperate with this largely compromised organisation.

3. Establish a new advisory medical/scientific body to the Government, a group of trusted and not bribed experts to
provide adequate knowledge of the risks and treatments related to any future pandemic. Learn from the Swedish
sovereign response to Covid-19 not to follow the WHO nor any other organisations with vested interests.

4. Work closely with the World Council for Health established in September 2021, an organisation of medical and
legal experts alarmed by the corruption of the WHO and their mismanagemen^tTh^andemic. This international
organisation works closely with Children’s Health Defence (with^^^^^^^^^^^Hat its helm) and with over 200
coalition partners in more than 45 countries.

5. Publish the raw data of all deaths and other adverse effects recorded by the TGA - unfortunately this body is
heavily funded and thus influenced by the pharmaceutical industry.

6. Appoint a new^| to the ABC, STOP censorship of investigative journalists, allow an open debate
between two sides of scientific discourse.
7. File a legal action against the manufactures of the Covid-19 injections and the responsible bodies that in full
knowledge of the possible harm continued to market and distribute those products. Remember, that the vaccines
against the Swine Flu (2009-2010) were banned after just FIVE deaths globally.
The official TGA data reported 1005 deaths so far. This figure tragically includes 9 children. Children have not been
at risk of dying from COVID.

8. Restore and honour the INFORMED MEDICAL CONSENT

9. NEVER again violate our constitutional right by mandating ANY medical procedures, lockdowns, wearing masks
that were found for many years to be ineffective and harmful. Isolate people with disease symptoms and provide
appropriate, humane care for people with compromised immune system.

10. Emphasise the importance of natural immunity and the way to boost it naturally through proper diet, lack of
stress, outdoor activities, exercise and positive human contact.

11. NEVER again terrorise the population by fear mongering and misinformation.

12. NEVER AGAIN CENSOR FREE SPEECH. Always maintain free, democratic debate - the truth and real
science are never afraid of scrutiny.

13. Publicly acknowledge the findings of over 3000 peer-reviewed scientific papers that challenged the existing
narrative and provided trustworthy evidence.

14. In Parliament, introduce a clause of the public duty directing the Members to attend all the sessions that present
TWO sides of the parliamentary debate on critical issues of public health.

15. Following this Panel’s findings, a Royal Commission should be called for to examine the response to
Covid-19 in more detail.
