Australian Government Covid Inquiry Submission

The Office of Prime Minister and Cabinet



14 December 2023



Dear Sir/Madam

As an Australian citizen born and bred I was very pleased to hear last Friday 8th December 2023 that
you were taking submissions from Australians for your Inquiry into Covid 19. I was also disappointed
that the closing date for our submissions is tomorrow 15th December 2023. I find this odd as it
doesn't appear that you are giving the people enough time in which to prepare and submit their
submissions, just one week in the lead up to Christmas is not enough time, however I have put down
below some of the key points for discussion.



The first being that given the magnitude of harm to the people, the economy and the Country from
the Covid 19 pandemic and the response to it, I do not feel that an 'inquiry' will be strong enough to
find the true gaps that need to be filled for next time. Therefore I call for a "full Royal Commission"
fora full investigation into:

    -          Vaccine procurement and details of any secret vaccine contracts
    -          Vaccine mandates
    -          Mask mandates and lockdowns
    -          Vaccine injuries
    -   Details of any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest amongst all Govt Departments,
        Regulatory Bodies, Vaccine Manufacturers, Hospitals, Police Dept, Military and international
        agencies/bodies/Governments, Media Companies and Social Media Tech companies
    -   Government misinformation in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block infection
        and transmission along with denial of vaccine injuries and gaslighting of the injured
    -   Why the Government silenced and ignored well credentialed doctors and scientists from
        around the world who were effectively treating Covid 19 with well proven medications such
        as Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine.
    -   Why the Government did not embrace and converse with doctors and scientists from
        around the world and our good doctors here in Australia to create protocols for early
        treatment to keep people out of the hospitals
    -   APHRA's lack of due diligence on safety, their silence on undeniable harm of the vaccine and
        their action along with ATAGI to silence the Medical Profession.
    -   Details of payments made per dose of vaccine, who paid this to whom and how much was
        paid
    -   Details of hospital protocols to treat Covid 19 and the science behind this approach. Details
        to show how frequently these protocols were reviewed to ensure that they were the best
        option at the time.
    -   Why still now in Dec 2023 are you still promoting the vaccines when the whole world knows
        that they do not stop infection or transmission and they do not prevent hospitalisation.
    -          Why were and are unvaccinated people being denied transplants and medical treatments
    -   Why were autopsies not done on people who died of Covid as I would have thought that
        these autopsies would provide many details and clues to how to treat the disease better
    -   Why did the cause of death be put down as "Covid 19" if the person died with and not from
        Covid, what about co-morbidities
    -      Why was the PCR test number of cycles way above the recommended number
    -   Why did you not respond to the pandemic in line with the 2019 Australian Health
        Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza. You allowed the WHO to do the opposite of our
        own Plan which Plan prophetically described why all of the actions the Government did take
        would not work and would cause hardship.
    -      We need to see a full list of ingredients in each vaccine
    -   Why did you allow the vaccine companies to experiment on us, what about the Nuremberg
        Code that we signed up to

Being locked down, unable to see my family and friends or go about my normal day to day life as a
healthy person was devastating. I was not symptomatic, I was healthy and I had my freedom taken
away. My husband got fired, my daughter got mandated into getting the vaccine when she didn't
want it. She was not given informed consent. She was deprived of her freedom and rights to bodily
autonomy. I am constantly worried about her health now that there are so many vaccine injured
people. I hope that her body heals and fights back against whatever was in the vaccine.

You are Accountable. Each and every decision you made over the past 4 years or more that lead to
you locking down the whole Country and forcing medical procedures on them. We need honesty,
transparency, real answers and then we need resignations.
