Submissions and Evidence to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry



Term of Reference : Key Health Response measures

   •   The definition and declaration of the Covid pandemic was based on the PCR test which proved to be
       inaccurate and scientifically meaningless. There was no pandemic.
           o   https://www.bing.eom/ck/a ? !&&p=d9d7f5ddb8cb7a2aJmltdHIV19l\/ITcwl\/ljUxl\/ljAwMCZpZ3VpZD0yY
               zU5ODFkZilkYjcwLTYlODUtMTFmNC04YjJhZGFmNjY0l\/IGUmaW5zaWQ9NTIwNg&ptn=3&ver=2&hs
               h=3&fclid=2c5981df-db70-6585-llf4-
               8b2adaf6640e&psq=bpa+pathology+pcr+tests+scientificaly+meaningless&u=alaHR0cHI\/l6Ly9icGEtc
               GF0aG9sb2d5LmNvbS9jb3ZpZDE5LXBjcil0ZXN0cylhcmUtc2NpZW50aWZpY2FsbHktbWVhbmluZ2xlc
               3Mv&ntb=l
                      ■   There was a lack of a gold standard.
                      ■   No proof for the RNA being of viral origin.


           o   A pandemic should only be defined based on peer reviewed scientific tests.


   •   Lack of transparency around the distinguishment of 'dying from Covid' and 'dying with Covid' which
       artificially inflated the number of deaths attributed to this specific disease. Again, artificially creating the
       illusion of a pandemic.
           o   Died from or with COVID-19? Why the counting is so important | this, (deakin.edu.au)
                      ■   The true death rate cannot be known and is much lower than advised by the Government.
           o   There should be a clear definition of 'dying as a direct cause a disease' as opposed to other causes of
               death in order not artificially inflate the numbers.



   •       Daily fearmongering by the Federal and State politicians and Media.
           o   The Government and Media hype to frighten the public was extensive and pervasive with daily death
               counts and oversized background blow up pictures of the virus on media.
           o   There was no advice on healthy living eg good food, nutrition, healthy weight, exercise, and
               sunshine.


           o       A true pandemic should have a focus on healthy living and calming the public, not spreading fear
               and negativity.


   •   Lockdowns to prevent the spread of disease contradicted historical common sense where if you were
       unwell, you stayed home and not to lock up the healthy. The Government did little or nothing to understand
       or address the negative impacts of lockdowns such as increases in domestic violence, suicide rates, financial
       devastation on incomes and small businesses as well as effects on social and educational development of
       children.
           o   Healthy people should not be locked down either in their homes, hotels or quarantine camps or as
               suggested by th(             Premier on multiple occasions that the quarantine camps were for the
               unvaccinated |


   •   Ivermection as an early treatment for Covid-19 was rejected, ridiculed, and criminalized in^         without any
       scientific basis. Monash university proved early in the 'pandemic' that a single dose of the drug could stop
       the virus growing in a cell culture. This drug has been used on humans for decades and has always been
       noted as safe. This drug was not investigated and tested as a viable treatment for Covid 19 in Australia.
       Rather, the Government sought to roll out new medical treatments (experiments) labelled as a vaccines
        which used new MRNA technology which had no mid-term, long term studies nor had peer reviewed safety
        studies and in the case of pregnant women, no studies at all.
            o   Lab experiments show anti-parasitic drug, Ivermectin, eliminates SARS-CoV-2 in cells in 48 hours -
                Monash University
            o   The Government should consider all alternatives for treatments of a pandemic especially those that
                are known and have a track record as proven to be safe.


    •   Covid injections: Safety studies were ignored by the Commonwealth, Health Depts, Ministers, TGA and
        AHPRA following the publicly available European Medicines Agency Assessment Reports on AstraZeneca,
        Pfizer (Comirnaty) and Moderna. The Government breached the Nuremburg code for medical experiments
        on humans.
            o   The Government should not conduct business with companies who have criminal histories. Eg


            o   The acceptance of safety studies solely conducted by the big Pharma companies who stand to
                benefit financially from sales is a considerable conflict of interest and is unethical.
            o   Any dealings with big Pharma and all safety studies should be transparent to the Australian public.
            o   The Government should ensure that peer reviewed, and long-term studies are conducted on any
                new medical treatment.



    •   The silencing of the medical profession and whistleblowing is undemocratic. Deregistering and
        reprimanding those who speak out suggests the actual intent of the Covidl9 injections. Clearly the
        Government does not want anyone questioning their narrative. If these injections were safe and effective,
        this would not be necessary. Mandating these injections to front line workers while the Government
        exempted themselves also speaks to the intent and understanding of the risks of the injections.
            o   The Nuremburg code should be adhered to.



In summary, the Government's Covid response can easily be interpreted as being a deliberate act to manufacture
the illusion of a pandemic to frighten the public into submission with no interest in actual health. The Australian
Government's response to the Covidl9 pandemic is not just a case of making huge mistakes, it is outright disturbing
and a massive threat for the Australian population. The inquiry should extend to understanding the level of
corruption that has been going on throughout this pandemic.
