My name is                and I joined the NSW Police Force in January 2015,
attaining the rank of Senior Constable at the earliest possible time by ensuring
completion all the necessary requirements to a exemplary standard.

Prior to joining the NSW Police Force, I received all recommended vaccinations,
including hepatitis B and tetanus along with voluntary vaccinations like influenza.

During m^^^^^^/vith the NSW police force, I was never disciplined or subject to

any form of managerial action. In fact, I was praised for my work ethic and
commitment, reflected by positive character references from my superiors,
certificates, awards and complimentary remarks that I received throughout my career.
This information can be found in my individual profile in the Commissioners
Confidence Supporting Documents, Annexure 10 of my evidence bundle. This
document demonstrates that I have never been subject to any form of management
action.

I thoroughly enjoyed my time working for the NSW Police and it was a career that I
envisioned would take me through to retirement. Some of my best friends and family
still work for the NSW Police Force. None of those friends and family are concerned
about my covid vaccination status and they were never fearful to be in my presence.

In 2020 and 2021, I was deployed by the NSW police to work on Operation Coronavirus.
This involved working at the quarantine hotels, international and domestic airports and the
Victoria/NSW border. I was also required to conduct welfare checks on covid positive
patients within the North Shore PAC. All tasks had the potential risk of coming into contact
with covid positive patients. I have always complied with the covid 19 protection guidelines
ensuring that I wore the essential PPE and safety equipment, including masks and gloves
and followed the necessary risk mitigation. This information is outlined in my show cause
notice Annexure 9 of my evidence bundle.

On 6th of August 2021, the Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison stated in a
public announcement that vaccinations would not be mandatory for Australians. This
was reassuring, due to the health concerns that I had.

On the 7th of September 2021, the Commissioner of NSW Police announced that all
employees must receive their first dose of a covid vaccine by the 30th of September
2021. We were given the opportunity to seek discretion by forwarding a written
report outlining our circumstances as to why we should not be required to get
vaccinated with the available covid vaccinations. I sought discretion on the grounds
that my wife and I got married in April 2021 and were attempting to have a baby. I
compiled a report detailing my wife's and my concerns that we did not have enough
information about the potential side effects of available covid vaccines, which were
and still are only provisionally approved. The lack of information surrounding fertility
and other personal concerns were difficult to comprehend, as general practitioners
that we saw did not know the answers to our questions and the vaccines were only in
their infancy. In addition, there was not enough research or testing conducted by
vaccine companies to supply sufficient data on fertility and effects.

I also conducted research on Pfizer, Moderna and Astrazeneca websites but was unable
to find any information to satisfy our concerns due to the vaccine companies not
conducting tests on this and long term safety data currently non existent.

Australian Federal Health Minister Greg Hunt stated in February 2021, "The world is
engaged in the largest global vaccination trial ever, and we will have enormous amounts
of data". This statement was alarming as my wife and I did not wish to participate in a
trial with limited data on safety and fertility.

My wife and I also monitored the statistics surrounding covid 19 and were confident
that we were not at a high risk of becoming seriously ill from contracting the virus
due to our age and the fact that we maintain a healthy and active lifestyle, in order to
protect ourselves from numerous diseases and conditions. We were also aware that
the vaccines were not stopping transmission, so argument to get vaccinated to
protect others was therefore redundant.



In my godfrey report to the Commissioner of police, I outlined that I witnessed and
was aware of side effects that friends, family and colleagues of my wife and I
encountered after administering the covid vaccines. Some of our females friends and
family experienced changes to their menstrual cycles, an effect confirmed by peer
reviewed articles and presented on mainstream media, all of which is included in my
brief. Having close family and friends experience side effects was concerning, as I too
could encounter the same or different side effects after receiving the vaccination and
with no assurances from NSW Police or the numerous general practitioners my wife
and I sought advice from the decision to receive one of the available covid
vaccinations was not made lightly.

I was stood down from the NSW Police Force following the 30th of September 2021.
I informed the NSW Police Force that I did not want to be forced to use my own
entitlements, as I was ready, willing and able to work. I would wear the necessary PPE
gear and offered complete numerous suitable tasks with alternative working
arrangements. However, these requests and proposals were rejected and I was forced
to use my own leave entitlements.

My report seeking discretion was rejected after the date specified by the mandate,
on the Sth of October 2021.

I attempted to engage the NSW Police in communication on multiple occasions,
requesting risk assessments and further information about the vaccines via email
with the Superintendent of North Shore Jenny Scholz and North Shore HR. I also
sought information on what the proposed managerial action would be if I had not
been vaccinated prior to the mandate. However, I was not provided with any of the
information requested. The email history is included on Annexure 5 of my evidence
bundle.

I contacted the Police Association prior to and after the 30th of September 2021.
They were unable to confirm whether or not a risk assessment regarding the safety
of the available covid vaccinations or regarding the necessity for a vaccination to
complete police work was available. On the Sth of October 2021, a representative
from the police association informed me via email that the direction to get
vaccinated was "likely to be lawful" as determined by a meeting held with their
senior legal counsel. The lack of confidence in this response was not reassuring. This
email history is in Annexure 8 of my evidence bundle. (Page 25 of 32)

There was not adequate consultation between the Police commissioner, my superiors
or myself prior to the mandate. This situation was completely unexpected and I
myself felt blindsided by the mandate to get vaccinated or be stood down.

I was stood down for over 5 months before being terminated. During that time, the
NSWPF did not make any attempt to check on my mental wellbeing nor have any
negotiations or compromises taken place. As far as I am concerned, I was treated like
a criminal and disowned from the so called blue family. I am thankful for the friends
that remained working for the police force that continued to contact me on a regular
basis to check how my family were coping. Unfortunately the same care and
compassion has not been shown by the NSW Police organisation or the
commissioner.

On the 12th of November 2021,1 received my Show Cause Notice. I contacted the Police
Association and requested assistance with my response. My Police association
appointed legal representative submitted my response along with character references
from my superior officers on the 3rd of December 2021.

On the 23rd of January 2022,1 contracted covid 19. This was verified by a rapid Antigen
Test and a PCR test. Subsequently, the PCR test was registered with NSW Health. I
notified North Shore Police HR and forwarded the certificate along with an automated 6
week exemption from NSW Health. The symptoms that I encountered were mild and I
was uncomfortable for approximately 48 hours. However, the symptoms that I
experienced were no worse than an ordinary cold or flu that I had encountered during
my lifetime. After my isolation period, I attended a GP in Elanora Medical Centre where I
obtained a 4 month exemption in accordance with the current advice at the time from
ATAGI. The GP also believed that natural immunity from the virus was superior to
vaccine immunity. Subsequently, I did not feel the need to get vaccinated.
On the 29th of January 2022, my wife conducted a pregnancy test and confirmed that
she was pregnant. We were overwhelmed with excitement, however, my unknown
employment status, overshadowed this joyful time with stress and anxiety about how I
would support my growing family.

On the Sth of March 2022, Chief Inspector Mark PLUSS and Acting Superintendant
NEWMAN met myself and 2 other colleagues at a cafe in Dee Why. The purpose of
the meeting was for those officers to serve us with 181 d notices. During the
interaction, we shook hands, sat next to each other, drank coffee without social
distancing or protective clothing, masks or gloves. It appeared that the concerns of
about the dangers of covid 19 were non existent. From that moment, we were
officially terminated from the NSW Police Force, shook hands again and parted ways.

I have since been forced to seek employment elsewhere in order to support my
family now that my wife is on maternity leave. This has proven to be quite difficult,
being a 40 year-old that has been terminated from a law enforcement job for Serious
Misconduct.

I am unable to apply for a security licence to pursue investigating roles, as the NSW
Police Force will not accept applications from Police officers that were terminated or
dismissed. In addition several other government jobs that I have applied for
including the greyhound welfare Integrity Commission and Liquor and Gaming NSW
have similar criteria where they do not accept anyone that has been dismissed or
terminated from NSW Police.

It is difficult to accept that I have been terminated for integrity issues and
deliberately disobeying a commissioners directive as there was nothing deliberate or
sinister about my actions. I was and still am genuinely concerned about health
reasons that have still not been addressed or clarified and this should not reflect
poorly on my character nor should my integrity be questioned.

We were taught to investigate in policing and on this occasion, that is what I have
done. I conducted my own research into the available covid 19 and the vaccines and
attempted to engage with the NSW Police Force to provide me with further
information regarding my concerns. I was not satisfied with the lack of data.

Furthermore, doctors are not lawfully permitted to vaccinate individuals unless given
informed consent. If I was to be vaccinated in order to keep my job, this is not
classed as consent and therefore the doctor would not vaccinate me.

As mentioned previously, I have never been subject to managerial or disciplinary
action in the police force or any other job for that matter. I have not even lost a
demerit point during my 23 years of driving a motor vehicle. However, I know of
NSW Police Officers that have been charged with drink driving, assault and other
serious offences, all of whom have remained in the workplace with minimal
disciplinary action.

Unfortunately, I have not been provided the same leniency. In fact, I am being
punished for being concerned about a decision that may affect my health and the
potential to build a family with my wife.

Whilst employed as a Police Officer, I was always taught to deal with matters by the
least restrictive means. This instance of being terminated appears to be the most
restrictive means by terminating me for serious misconduct and questioning my
integrity, restricting my ability to apply for and attain employment and licenses.

More recently, I discovered that numerous doctors felt that they were compromised
and unable to speak negatively about the available covid vaccines. This was
announced on mainstream media in December 2022 by Kerryn Phelps, the ex­
president of the Australian Medical Association. She stated that her and her wife had
serious adverse reactions from the covid vaccines and confirmed that more research
needs to be conducted on them. She also stated that doctors felt scared to speak out
as the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency was threatening them. I have
also located peer reviewed articles validating some of my concerns surrounding
potential side effects from the covid vaccines which I included in my statement in
evidence bundle.

Despite all of this, my wife gave birth to our beautiful baby on the 6th of October
2022 and our world has changed tremendously. We consider ourselves very lucky to
be parents and would be devastated if previously taking a provisionally approved
medicine affected our chances or the ability to have our beautiful daughter. My
primary concerns about the available covid vaccinations were centered around
fertility and the lack of data to support their safety. So although these concerns went
unanswered by the NSW police my initial report and all endeavors to communicate
since have been truthful, reasonable and not worthy of any form of disciplinary
action.

Finally, I invested a substantial amount of time, effort and money into becoming a
police officer. It has been devastating to put approximately $20000 of study fees and
almost 7 years experience to waste when I have witnessed officers commit legitimate
offences and walk away with their career intact.

The dismissal and reasons associated within the 181 d were harsh and unjust and
worthy of this unfair dismissal hearing. Especially when my actions did not impact
anyone else.
The Industrial Relations Commission did not consider my evidence in my Hearing as
the commissioner told me that he already made up his mind and confirmed that the
mandate was justified. Therefore, it was up to me to explain why I thought the
dismissal was harsh.
The Commissioner thought that losing my job, potential future employment and my
integrity was fair. This decision from him was disgusting and inhumane.

Given that there is so much evidence to support that I didn't need the vaccine and
my actions did not affect anyone else, I struggle to see how the government allowed
this to happen.

I have lost a lot of faith in the NSW and Federal governments after the last few years.
Hopefully we can mend the relationship and work towards a better and fairer future.
