Australian Federal Government 2023 COVID-19 Response Inquiry.
Inquiry's Terms of Reference this submission will address.

    •    Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations
         and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment,
         quarantine facilities, and public health messaging).
    •    Broader health supports for people impacted by COVID-19 and/or lockdowns
         (for example mental health and suicide prevention supports, and access to
         screening and other preventive health measures).

To whom it may concern, my name is Wayne Spyve. I am a previous registered nurse who has
retrained as a secondary school teacher. I live

The following points I raise have created intense mistrust within a large portion of the Australian
population. It is believed that the Federal Government had or has the ability to influence and / or
change these things. Although I have not backed these points up with referencing from the public
domain, they remain constant as unanswered questions which continue to cause unrest and
mistrust.

    1.   Untested new technology mRNA gene therapy touted as being a "Safe and Effective Vaccine"
         was rolled out and mandated across the entire population - this was wrong.
    2.   Politicians were not required to be vaccinated despite mandatory vaccination policy for the
         general population - this was wrong.
    3.   APHRA intimidation of those registered by them, censoring and deplatforming any
         professional person registered by them who was wishing to speak anything other than the
         "government sanctioned narrative" - this was wrong.
    4.       My previously healthy, happy mother                died in a nursing home within 10 days of
         her third mandated covidl9 vaccination (1st Booster). There was no investigation - this was
         wrong.
    5.        The attending Doctor was requested by me to submit her                 death to TGA. After
         refusing to talk about it with me, I submitted it myself - this was wrong that he would feel
         intimidated by APHRA and unable to do this.
    6.   Use of existing safe medications (Ivermectin, Hydroxychloroquine) for those "At Risk" for
         vaccination or those choosing not to be injected, was disallowed - this was wrong.
    7.   Social media black-out and censoring of any dissenting conversations (to the official
         narrative) on platforms within the Australian media-sphere - this was wrong.
    8.   Federal Politicians that refused to show up and engage with a hundred thousand people
         (plus) from their own electorates across Australia, all protesting the massive impost and
         over-reach of these same politicians. This occurred on February 12, 2022 on the "Common"
         lawn between the old parliament house and new parliament house lawn - politicians not
         showing up and speaking up, was wrong.
    9.   Federal Government disinterest into reasons for dramatic increase in "All Cause Mortality"
         within Australia since the mass vaccination program has not been forthcoming - this is
         wrong.

         Regards
         Wayne Spyve
