SUBMISSION TO AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT COVID-19 ENQUIRY
by WARREN ROSS
                                15th December 2023

My name is Warren Ross and I worked in an Aged Care facility in^^^^J
      before being dismissed from my job due to my unwillingness to take
an mRNA or adenovirus injection. I was President of a local branch of the
NSW Nurses and Midwives Association. I worked for many years as an
information analyst for some of Australia's largest insurance companies.

EMPLOYMENT and DISMISSAL
From September 2021 to December 2021, I was able to continue working
in aged care despite being unvaccinated due to an exemption that I
received from a local doctor. In December, the NSW Minister for Health
tightened the regulations around exemptions and ordered employees to
act in enforcing them.

This affected me directly as I was told I could no longer work at the
facility based on this exemption. This required my employer to assess the
validity on which my exemption. This is an extraordinary situation where
a non-medical person is called on to make an assessment that would
normally be made a by a doctor.

This matter went to the Fair Work Commission where an industrial officer
from the NSW Nurses and Midwives sought pay for me during a period I
was stood down until I was finally dismissed. A period of about a month.

The industrial officer refused to challenge my sacking on the basis of the
refused exemption. He argued to me the right of the employer to make
that decision. The Fair Work Commissioner fell into line on this issue too
arguing the employer had the right to refuse the exemption.

THE THERAPEUTIC GOODS ADMINISTRATION (TGA)
The role of this body throughout the pandemic has been to rubber stamp
pharmaceutical company demands. Based on Maryanne DeMasi's
research, 96% of all funding accruing to the TGA comes from private
pharmaceutical companies.

The confusion over the safety of Astra Zeneca and clots saw this product
discouraged early in 2021 and then it was given a safety pass only to be
removed off the schedule completely early this year.

We know that adequate testing was NOT carried out by our authorities in
fact none was done at all. We took the word of the US FDA. We are
aware that


In assessing and banning Ivermectin there were no appropriate clinical on
the taskforce that had the responsibility for this decision.

EMERGENCY USE AUTHORITY
This was the greatest fraud of all and again the TGA was involved. In
early March, it banned hydroxychloroquine and on 10th September it
banned Ivermectin. There was NO justification for this. The latter had
been given to 4 billion people world wide by mid pandemic. Remarkable
successes were achieve in the Indian provinces of Uttar Pradesh and Goa.

In May this year, the ban was lifted with a warning not to use Ivermectit
against Covid-19. This is a criminal organisation being supported, it
seems, by government departments.

The only justification for banning these products is that Emergency Use
Authority could not proceed as long as they were available so they had to
be suppressed. In the process, across Australia a standard practice as
implemented of get the injections or do NOTHING wait until you can't
breathe and go to hospital where you likely to be denied antibiotics which
actually does the killing not the virus (see:
https ://warrenross. substack, com/p/spike-has-a-plan-whats-ours-
revisited).

VACCINES
It is clear that in many cases they proved dangerous. We have never seen
the numbers of injured, maimed or killed from any other pharmaceutical
product. The national death rate, last I checked, was 18% above the 5
year monthly average.

Yet, reports from the corrupted TGA tell us there is nothing to see. The
AUSVAXSAFETY.ORG website takes a much more active role in trying to
understand adverse events. Their numbers are MUCH higher than the
TGA. They actively write out to vaccine recipients to understand their
experience.

We do not know what the long term affect of these vaccines will be on the
population. There have been so many sick and die that it is hard to
believe that people who have no troubles may not face them in the
future. The evidence has been clear for a long time. There is no excuse
for the subsequent damage done to the population when after a mere few
months it was clear that these vaccines were not behaving normally.
Another point that might be made is that they did not work. People
continued to incur multiple infections and were told this was normal. The
narrative kept changing not to assist public health but support the
financial interests of big pharmaceutical outlets.

MEDIA
The role of the media throughout the Covid period has been disgraceful.
This is particularly true of the ABC. Desperate efforts have been made to
conceal from the general public the true nature of this so-called
vaccination program.

The Federal Department of Health used the Department of Home Affairs
to provide ideal social media candidates for censorship. The argument
used was that the department was merely advising Facebook that its rules
around Covid content had been broken. Is the is really appropriate?
Politicians refused to engage with regard to obvious lies that were being
told to the public about safety, effectiveness of the vaccines and the
supposed lack of alternatives.

QUALITY OF COVID INQUIRY COMMITTEE
Based on their past statements, alliance and responsibilities of the
committee members along with the narrowness of the terms set for this
inquiry, I am not particularly hopeful of a satisfying result.

Throughout the pandemic, Labor has shown itself to be the more zealous
of the two major parties. I am at a loss as to why this is as such a
position only led to greater hardship, misery, injury and death. Who would
want this as their legacy and why. It seems many do.

INFLATION
When Covid started and the surplus no longer mattered, it became
apparent to me that it must be a much bigger lie that was replacing the
old deficit / surplus fraud. So it proved to be.

The management of Covid at all levels of government, by all parties has
been a disgrace. You have sacrificed not only lives, increased issues of
mental illness but have also gone a long way to destroying the economy.
Some people might even think it was deliberate.

Warren Ross
e:
m:
