        Public Submission to Commonwealth Government COVID-19 inquiry

                                Submitted by Stephen D English

About Me
I am a retired research scientist and I am 72 years old. I have not received any 'vaccines' for
COVID and I have not had the COVID disease.

I have spent more than three years researching what was published both through Government
networks and other channels in the COVID debacle both in Australia and overseas.

Governance Issues
I think this needs to start with an acknowledgement of freedom of the individual. The
starting point here should be that if the individual wishes to catch the disease and suffer the
consequences then he/she should be allowed to do this with some consideration for
transmission issues. However, there were many instances where individuals were not allowed
to make their own decisions. Examples included not allowing people to take Ivermectin and
Hydroxychloroquinine which were identified very early as having preventative benefits as well
as treatment benefits. The nasal spray 'ViralEze' from Star Pharma Limited was available very
early in the pandemic and was approved in many countries very quickly. It is still not approved
in Australia. This is probably a far superior solution to wearing masks where the concentration
of CO2 in the masks can rise to very dangerous levels that impacts health. We now know that
all these solutions had to be stopped because the 'vaccines' could not be approved under
emergency use authorisation if there was a treatment or cure. We also know that most of the
income for the TGA comes from the pharmaceutical companies who were determined to make
money from this first global 'vaccine'. This is a severe conflict of interest and all the evidence
points to the fact that most governments around the world were working for the benefit of the
pharmaceutical companies. It is probably also the reason why the government gave the
pharmaceutical companies immunity from any vaccine injuries and deaths.

Key Health Responses
I believe we have gained a lot of information as a population wide community as to possible
solutions to the pandemic but unfortunately many in the health community do not want to
listen. If anyone reads 'Turtles all the Way Down'1 and/or 'Dissolving Illusions'2, it is very likely
that they will never accept another vaccine. For example,                 has now fairly well
proven that autism and other childhood issues have been caused by the increase in childhood
vaccinations and the timing of those vaccinations. There has to be a reason why autism was
seen in one in 10,000 children 30 years ago and now it is wore^hai^nn 50. What is that
reason and why are we not open to all possibilities?                           a survey that took
him a few days to get these results. These back up the court cases initiated by^^^^|
             many years ago.

It now seems probable that the COVID virus was developed in a lab many years prior to either
its deliberate or accidental release from a biolab in China in late 2019. Indeed, the virus was
patented many years previously. The vaccine for this virus was probably developed and
patented many years earlier also. If the vaccine was already developed, it explains why it could
be developed at 'warp' speed because it only needed to be tested to be proven safe and



1 Turtles all the Way Down: Vaccine Science and Myth by Anonymous (Editor Zoey OToole and Mary Holland) 2022
ISBN 978-965-598-104-9
2 Dissolving Illusions by Suzanne Humphries and Roman Bystrianyk 2015 ISBN 978-148-021-6891




                                                Page 1 of 3
effective. Vaccines are usually tested for up to 10 years and with this one there was new
technology involved so it should have been tested for even longer.

Pfizer conducted trials and generated tens of thousands of pages of trial results. If these were
good results, why did Pfizer ask for 75 years to release the results? Humanity is very thankful
that a judge ruled that they needed to be released at the rate of many thousand of pages per
month starting forthwith. The world is grateful for the team of volunteers at the Daily Clout
who analysed these results and revealed that the vaccine should never have been released.

The vaccine was released and alert doctors realised there was a problem after just a few
months. Millions of adverse reactions were submitted to VAERS and large numbers to the TGA.
It seems both the CDC and the TGA ignored most of those reports even though it is commonly
accepted that there is under reporting to VAERS of somewhere between 40 and 100 (the
number of reports should be 40 to 100 times greater) but the challenges of submitting a report
stop many people doing it or they are not aware that VAERS/TGA exists (including some in the
health profession).

It seems that health professionals can come up with all sorts of excuses for why the adverse
reports were not caused by the vaccine. This is just crazy! If a young perfectly healthy person
had the vaccine one day and died a few hours, days or weeks later, it should be assumed that
the vaccine caused it until proven otherwise.

           has proven that a large number of people have died very suddenly around the world.
Many of these are people under 50 who are very fit and healthy. One minute they are standing
upright and the next minute they have fallen over and are dead. When I watch these events a
few times on video, I know that this is something different that was not previously something
that occurred so suddenly and so catastrophically.                      yo) felt unwell, laid
down on his bed and died and it all happened within ten minutes.

The road toll in South Australia this year is approximately 50% higher than last year. This is
statistically very significant and it is highly unlikely that all accidents can be attributed to the
usual culprits of drinking or drugs. My theory is that some of these people are in fact dying
suddenly before they have their accident and that their sudden death is due to the vaccine.
Obviously, their family should be asked to reveal their COVID vaccination status if known so
that we can test all hypotheses and make progress in this area.

The WHO does not appear to have provided any tangible benefits to any country that has its
own well developed health infrastructure such as Australia and the USA. Many people are
suggesting that the new WHO pandemic policy and the new International Health Regulations
will be forced upon Australia if we do not vote against them. Why has Australia not voted
against the pandemic policy and the new IHR regulations? Why does Australia remain in the
WHO at huge cost to this country?

Why does the government treat its citizens so badly? Surely all citizens in Australia
deserve to have a government that works with them to discover the problems and welcomes
possible ideas and solutions.

If any logical person works through the information above with an open mind, it seems to
become apparent that there must be another agenda at work here. Some of the following may
well be labelled as conspiracy theories but many of the conspiracy theories of two to three
years ago are now proven or probably correct such as the source of the virus!



3 "Cause Unknown": The Epidemic of Sudden Deaths in 2021 and 2022 by            2022 Skyhorse Publishing
ISBN 978-1-5107-7639-5




                                               Page 2 of 3
Some ideas that may want to be considered by the committee include:

     •        Why were the Pfizer test results not released prior to the release of the vaccine?
     •   Why were the Pfizer contract details shrouded in such secrecy including the cost to
         Australians when it is the Australian taxpayers who are paying for them?
     •   Why were so many doses of the vaccine purchased at a cost of $1.8 billion and yet less
         than 24% used?
     •   Why did we not ask Pfizer if the 'vaccine' would prevent people catching COVID or
         transmitting COVID? It has proved to do neither so perhaps we should ask for our
         money back?
     •   It seems likely that the government was dishonest in the figures it published for the
         vaccination take up. If 60 million doses have been administered and if we assume the
         average injected person has had three doses, then it seems unlikely that this represents
         over 90% of the population as promoted.
     •   Did Pfizer and Moderna provide any commissions, kickbacks or similar to any employees
         or contractors of any government department?
     •   Why has the government set up a system where the TGA is funded in large part by the
         pharmaceutical companies?
     •   Why were adverse events in the TGA database not handled professionally and quickly
         such as arranging interviews with the injured person or with the deceased's family?
         Why have these data not been analysed and reported on in a professional manner?
     •   Which members of the government and the public service have been to a World
         Economic Forum meeting for information or training purposes? Which of them attained
         a title such as 'global leader' or similar? Are all these people supporting the WEF
         agenda of reducing the world's population by more than 50%? If so, why? Is this not a
         question that should be put to the Australian people as part of an election manifesto?
     •   The COVID' vaccine' is continuing to injure people and is not safe or effective. When
         will it be removed from the market?
li        and ^^^^|had refused to sell us their vaccines, Australia would be far better off
today because we would have lost less people to the disease than we have lost so far from the
'vaccines' and there are probably many more deaths to come over many years. We would
have avoided all the vaccine injuries as well.

Is there a better solution than vaccines?
I, and many other people that I know, have been taking certain vitamins and minerals on a
daily basis. It seems that our special combination is a possible preventative treatment for all
viral diseases. What if this were found to be correct? Why would I have been taking
Vitamin C every day for 40 years at my expense if I did not think it improved my health?

Why not conduct surveys to ask people for their suggestions on possible treatments? The
electronic world makes the collection of data so much easier. Ask^^^^^^for advice!

It also seems that nebulizers using H2O2 or Silver Colloids and frequency synthesisers (e.g.
F-Scan https://www.fscan.com/ ) can assist in the treatment of many diseases. These are not
necessarily inexpensive solutions but if we believe in the freedom of the individual then surely
they should be an option. Doctors and other health professionals were barred from discussing
anything other than 'safe and effective' 'vaccines' that have turned out in the end to display
neither of these properties.

In conclusion, there are many results of studies appearing. Are we really interested
in finding causes and solutions? I have my doubts.




                                           Page 3 of 3
