The Cabinet Office NSW
Submission to the
Commonwealth COVID-19
Response Inquiry
 22 December 2023




                               w




                               NSW
                               GOVERNMENT
                    OFFICIAL
                                                                     OFFICIAL




Executive Summary......................................................................................................................... 2
1      Governance and interjurisdictional decision-making architecture............................................3
2      Delineation of responsibilities in public health responses........................................................ 4
       2.1             Quarantine and International Airports......................................................................... 4
       2.2             Cruising.......................................................................................................................... 5
       2.3             Vaccine, community testing and treatment rollouts................................................... 5
       2.4             Aged care, disability and primary care......................................................................... 6
3      Coordination of community and financial supports................................................................... 7
       3.1             Public Messaging and Communications .......................................................................7
       3.2             First Nations Supports.................................................................................................. 8
       3.3             Financial Supports........................................................................................................ 8
       3.4             Supply Chain Issues....................................................................................................... 9
       3.5             Data and Information Sharing......................................................................................10
4      References/other materials..................................................................................................... 11




Executive Summary
Australia had a world-leading response to the COVID-19 pandemic across a range of
measures. This outcome was enabled by strong health care systems, well developed
emergency response capabilities and robust governance structures.
COVID-19 challenged our federated system of government, our healthcare and economic
systems in an unprecedented way. Notwithstanding the successes, there are areas which
could be improved to ensure greater preparedness for future pandemics. Future planning
and preparedness must consider new knowledge and technologies gained through the
pandemic, particularly for vaccine development. It must also consider a range of scenarios
and not be confined to the COVID-19 characteristics.
Noting the Inquiry Terms of Reference, this submission focuses on challenges experienced
at the interface of Commonwealth and state and territory responsibilities. In particular,
challenges relating to governance, the delineation of responsibilities in public health
responses, and the coordination of community and financial supports. Across many areas of
the pandemic response responsibility for delivery was, pragmatically, determined by
necessity rather than first principles or overall efficacy. These issues warrant further
review.
The NSW Cabinet Office welcomes the opportunity to make a submission to the
Commonwealth’s COVID-19 Response Inquiry. Several reviews have been conducted in NSW
and lessons from these reviews are being implemented. Many of the lessons are relevant to
the national review. NSW government agency officials welcome the opportunity to meet
with the Inquiry Panel to discuss issues reflected in this submission in further detail.


Note: This is an officials level only document and does not represent a NSW Government
submission.




                                                                     OFFICIAL
                                               OFFICIAL




1       Governance and interjurisdictional
        decision-making architecture
National Cabinet was an effective forum for quick, consensus decision making in the early
pandemic
•    Given Australia’s federal structure, National Cabinet was an appropriate and effective governance
     body to facilitate rapid, nationally-consistent decision-making on key aspects of Australia’s public
     health response. For example, early decisions on broad public health and social measures
     informed by the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC)’s advice contributed
     to lower national mortality rates in the early stages of the pandemic than most other countries.
•    National Cabinet’s decisions were heavily influenced by health advice in the early phase of the
     pandemic. However, as decisions moved from emergency response to national re-opening plans,
     governance and advisory structures evolved to include more social and economic evidence e.g.
     the economic benefits of essential workers returning to workplaces.
•    National Cabinet was most effective when agreeing overarching strategic settings or principles to
     guide state and territory implementation of a national approach e.g. the National Framework for
     Managing COVID-19 in Schools and Early Childhood Education and Care. First Ministers were less
     equipped to make detailed operational judgements and this work was quickly devolved to the
     officials’ level network, the National Coordination Mechanism (NCM), which effectively
     coordinated operational agencies to achieve practical outcomes. For example, the Supermarket
     Taskforce was particularly influential in assisting the business and retail sector navigate complex
     Public Health Orders and stabilise supply chains.

For Further Investigation
1.   Establishing processes and governance structures to ensure National Cabinet is advised on
     health, economic and other social considerations, even in emergency decision-making phases.
2. Clarifying the relationship between health agencies such as ATAGI, the AHPPC and a future
   Australian Centre for Disease Control (CDC) and their respective roles in informing National
   Cabinet decision-making.
3. Considering how the NCM can be utilised in future crises. The effectiveness of the NCM has
   continued to be displayed through varied responses to crisis, such as repatriation and recent
   cyber incidents.




                                               OFFICIAL
                                                 OFFICIAL




2        Delineation of responsibilities in public
         health responses
2.1       Quarantine and International Airports

The absence of national quarantine arrangements required states and territories to fund
and deliver border control measures beyond their constitutional remit
•     This required significant ongoing state and territory resources which had to be diverted from
      other aspects of the public health response and was in addition to other public safety
      responsibilities.
•     The state-by-state approach also created difficulties in acquitting funding for returned
      travellers who undertook quarantine in a jurisdiction other than their place of residence.

Case Study
•     NSW successfully quarantined more than 265,000 returned Australian citizens and travellers
      from March 2020 to April 2022, more than any other jurisdiction. This included a substantial
      number of citizens from other states and territories. Early in the period, NSW was quarantining
      50 per cent of all international arrivals into Australia.
•     NSW oversaw the operational functions of Sydney Airport for passengers and aircrew
      returning to Australia through NSW, including screening, collection and testing, and other
      processes related to the health of passengers and crew.
•     NSW Health was responsible for receipt and assessment of applications for exemption from
      the Public Health Orders for Air Transportation, Maritime and Interstate travellers. In 2021,
      NSW processed more than 15,200 applications and granted more than 5,200 applications for
      exemptions for people to farewell deceased loved ones or support ill family members.
•     The hotel quarantine system relied heavily on NSW police and health resources. At times
      during domestic outbreaks, NSW had to reduce hotel quarantine capacity to allow for the
      diversion to critical government resources to manage the lockdown.
•     Despite these pressures and challenges, NSW also worked closely with the Commonwealth to
      facilitate urgent repatriation flights from Afghanistan, above and beyond existing capacity, to
      support the arrival, quarantine, and future care of this cohort - through the coordination of
      additional humanitarian and settlement supports.
For Further Investigation
1.    Improved planning, funding, and operationalisation of quarantine arrangements in a future
      pandemic, including pre-screening options for returning travellers.
2. A Commonwealth delivered, centralised approach to managing hotel quarantine in the event of
   a future pandemic, in line with the Commonwealth’s role in managing international border
   arrangements and biosecurity risks.




                                                 OFFICIAL
                                                OFFICIAL




2.2      Cruising

States led the safe resumption of cruising
•    Early in 2020, cruise ships were identified as environments conducive to COVID-19 outbreaks
     and the Cth implemented a national biosecurity ban on entry of international cruise ships. In
     2022, the Cth indicated its intention to lift the ban, but there were no nationally consistent
     protocols for the safe resumption of cruising.
•    In the absence of a national protocol, NSW was tasked by National Cabinet to develop a
     multi-jurisdictional protocol for COVID-19 management on cruise ships, in close partnership
     with the cruise industry, Commonwealth, Victorian, Queensland, and Western Australian
     Governments. This protocol was adopted by Australian jurisdictions and effectively supported
     the safe resumption of cruising nationally.

For Further Investigation
1.   Centralised approaches to the implementation of a nationally consistent protocol.
2. Roles and responsibilities for developing health protocols that cut across jurisdictions.
3. Centre for Disease Control (CDC) as the co-ordinator of centralised approaches to
   intelligence-gathering, risk assessments and international best practice approaches.



2.3      Vaccine, community testing and treatment rollouts

Procurement delays and failure to utilise established delivery mechanisms hampered
the vaccination and testing program
•    While vaccine procurement was appropriately a Commonwealth responsibility, the roles and
     responsibilities for distribution, eligibility, and administration (particularly for priority
     groups) were not well defined outside traditional state and territory vaccination roles and
     responsibilities. This led to challenges in rapid implementation, public confusion and delay.
•    The rollout could have better leveraged states’ and territories’ established strengths in
     supply chains and logistical expertise. Public demand for mRNA COVID-19 vaccines
     outstripped supply during early phases of the vaccine rollout.
•    The Commonwealth has embedded some of the innovations made during the pandemic,
     such as the initiative to fund administration by pharmacists for National Immunisation
     Program (NIP) vaccines. This initiative will increase access and general vaccination capacity
     for a future pandemic. However, other health care professionals, such as nurses in GP
     practice, were not appropriately funded to increase the sustainability of vaccination
     capacity.

For Further Investigation
1.   Capacity to rapidly establish community PCR testing, at-home testing and vaccination
     including through primary care providers using normal national immunisation program
     logistics and implementation approaches.
2. Supply and administration of vaccines and testing capacity in regional, rural and remote
   Australia, including remote Aboriginal communities.
3. The coordination of workforce and supply and stockpiling of PPE and other essential
   equipment, including ventilators and PPE (early in the response) and PCR and rapid antigen
   test kits, testing equipment and treatments (later in the response, and as the pandemic and
   testing capabilities evolved, and treatments became available).



                                                OFFICIAL
                                                    OFFICIAL


    4. Roles and responsibilities in areas of primary care, including community pharmacists and
       Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Services.



2.4          Aged care, disability and primary care

    States and territories took on additional responsibilities to deliver public health responses
    in aged care homes and disability group homes, which they were not resourced to do
    •    The Commonwealth’s primary responsibility for aged care and disability was, due to necessity,
         deputised by states and territories. This included the provision of workforce support, infection
         prevention control (IPC) expertise, resources such as PPE and RATs, and crisis management
         support.
    •    This exerted significant pressure on an already strained workforce, and the support was not
         adequately recognised with appropriate funding.
    •    Primary care services, including Aboriginal Community Controlled Organisations (ACCOs),
         looked to NSW Health for the provision of PPE early in the pandemic. NSW Health also
         supported primary care services in aged care and disability services when outbreaks occurred.

Case Study
•       Early in the pandemic, aged care facilities and primary care services looked to NSW Health for
        the provision of PPE, testing supplies and workforce when staff were either unwell, in quarantine
        or unwilling to work with COVID-19 patients. This meant NSW Health needed to rapidly scale
        assistance to distribute supplies and to provide workforce at short notice. It also led to the
        provision of mass testing clinics and scaling of testing when GPs and pathology collection
        centres moved away from routine provision of these services.
•       Mechanisms for the rollout of vaccines and rapid antigen testing in aged care facilities were
        often implemented late and experienced delays, meaning that NSW Health needed to urgently
        coordinate teams to enhance testing or immunisation in areas where outbreaks of COVID-19
        were occurring.
For Further Investigation
1.      Roles and responsibilities for vaccine administration in the Aged and Disability care context.
2. National procurement and delivery of key supplies (PPE, ventilation equipment, vaccines, tests
   and testing equipment, treatments).
3. Workforce capacity, training, and scalability.
4. Emergency management capability of residential aged care facilities, disability and community
   primary care and appropriate integration into established government response structures.




                                                    OFFICIAL
                                                 OFFICIAL




3 Coordination of community and financial
  supports
3.1       Public Messaging and Communications

Public communication of health advice was not always timely and consistent across levels
of government, nor sensitive to needs of different community groups
•     Public messaging on vaccination, quarantine and lockdown requirements were issued by local,
      state and federal government agencies without central coordination. Time lags in national
      communications also meant there was some misalignment with jurisdictional differences in the
      health situation and decision making.
•     Social media, marketing and general communications were poorly coordinated and
      insufficiently tailored to address the concerns of local communities and mitigate
      misinformation. Issues with translated materials also led to a lack of trust across
      communications at all levels of government. Earlier partnerships with communities to address
      misinformation would have improved communication, noting this is a shared responsibility of
      States and Territories and the Commonwealth
•     At times, communication from the Commonwealth was authorised unilaterally, and missed an
      opportunity to draw upon states’ and territories’ expertise in the local context and
      understanding how communications are best received by multicultural groups.

Case Study
•     Several major national communications campaigns were launched without prior consultation
      with states and territories. This included the ‘Arm yourself tv and print vaccination campaign at
      the height of the second wave in mid-2021 which caused distress to culturally and
      linguistically diverse communities, many of whom regarded the slogan to be confusing or
      combative.
•     The unilateral authorisation did not leverage the expertise states, territories, and local
      organisations in community engagement, which could have ensured the campaign was
      effective in achieving its desired outcomes.
•     Tailored messaging and drawing on multicultural expertise within communities is necessary
      for appropriate translation of content and effective communication with the whole community.

For Further Investigation
•     Strategies for ensuring consultation with state, local governments and community groups is
      informed by experts with a deep understanding of community and cultural needs.
•     Governance for greater alignment of federal, state and local messaging.
•     The coordination and streamlining of public health messaging regarding vaccine safety,
      eligibility, and dosage recommendations.




                                                 OFFICIAL
                                                   OFFICIAL




3.2          First Nations Supports

    Governments did not always serve First Nations communities in culturally aware and
    safe ways
    •    Many of the issues outlined in this submission were felt more acutely by Aboriginal
         communities. This was largely driven by mainstream methods of delivery which did not fully
         account for structural impediments, historic issues and inequities faced by Aboriginal
         households and communities.
    •    First Nations service delivery often lacked clear roles and responsibilities between levels of
         government, adequate funding, tailored communications, implementing activities, and
         relevance to the specific cultural needs of communities.
    •    Adjustments to mainstream service delivery and communications were often insufficient to
         address the needs of Aboriginal communities and contributed to lower vaccination rates in
         these communities.

Case Study
•       NSW has over 60 discrete Aboriginal communities (DACs) which are largely isolated and have
        unreliable access to mainstream media, infrastructure, and services. DACs demographics,
        social networks and cultures are distinct from mainstream communities.
•       Governments’ ‘tailored’ First Nations communications, for keeping safe, vaccinations, services
        and lockdowns generally involved small adjustments to mainstream approaches - and were
        slow to develop. Delays meant people were sourcing information from platforms and trusted
        people or sources, which spread misinformation. Government communications (format,
        content, relevancy) did not effectively combat the misinformation.
•       The local Aboriginal services who had existing relationships were also relied upon heavily to
        provide insights into local issues, needs and priorities, as data was inaccurate or unavailable.
        This meant that services not funded to provide support were playing a leading role, while those
        with funding were unable to reach into Aboriginal communities where needed.
Further Investigation
•       Policies and processes for cultural appropriateness and awareness, and removing systems
        which create and/or perpetuate inequities for Aboriginal people.
•       A mechanism for strategies which are co-designed with relevant Aboriginal community-
        controlled organisations for emergencies, that work locally with regional, state, and federal
        governments to provide culturally safe and responsive supports for Aboriginal people.
•       Improving data sources and sharing across governments and trusted partners, to enable agile,
        decision-making that responds to the right priorities, at the right level (local or regional) on
        critical life-threatening issues.


3.3          Financial Supports

    Cooperation between levels of Government for Australia’s economic response was
    generally good, but inconsistency in approach led to some duplication of effort

    Case Study
    •    The roles and responsibilities of the Commonwealth and state governments in relation to
         financial support for individuals and businesses impacted by pandemic-related lockdowns
         could have been more clearly defined.



                                                   OFFICIAL
                                                    OFFICIAL


    •     The Commonwealth Government provided support to individuals through JobKeeper from
          2020 until March 2021 which also served as a form of business support. However, the
          Commonwealth did not agree to reintroduce JobKeeper during the Delta outbreak in 2021.
    •     This left NSW to provide support to businesses directly until a new co-funded measure,
          JobSaver, commenced on 26 July. NSW allocated significant resources to design and
          implement JobSaver when systems already existed at a Commonwealth level that would
          have facilitated roll-out of the program.
    For Further Investigation
    1.    Review pre-planning and modelling on economic and fiscal shocks to assist evidence-based
          decision making.
    2.      Roles and responsibilities for provision of individual and business supports.
    3. Establishing a standardised national arrangement to address governance issues and provide
       equitable supports to impacted individuals and businesses (e.g. similar to the Disaster
       Recovery Funding Arrangements (DRFA)).




3.4          Supply Chain Issues

Inconsistent processes, rules and procedures for freight hampered the flow of goods and
created a complex operating environment for business and government
•        Workers directly moving freight such as heavy vehicle drivers and infrastructure maintenance
         crews were not always explicitly included on lists of essential workers.
•        NSW had to ensure appropriate exemptions to port entry restrictions were in place to facilitate
         continued port operations whilst maintaining strict international border entry protocols.
•        International border entry requirements and state and territory quarantine requirements were
         particularly challenging for maritime crew seeking to enter Australia by air to replace vessel
         crews at the end of their contracts. The complex and time sensitive coordination required
         between entry approvals, flights, hotel quarantine and vessel timing enhanced this challenge.

Case Study
•        In the initial period of the pandemic, inconsistent public health requirements for truck drivers
         and other key supply chain workers between jurisdictions created complexity for businesses
         and caused delays in freight movement.
•        Transport for NSW had to establish and operate eleven freight worker testing sites at the peak
         of the response to assist heavy vehicle drivers to meet the different state border testing
         requirements, as well as provide facilities that were suitable and accessible for these workers.
•        The National Freight Movement Code (NFMC) successfully enabled the continued movement
         of freight while restrictions were in flux, but this was not introduced until August 2021,
         16 months from the onset of the pandemic.
•        Disruptions to freight supply also created a high-risk situation for rural and remote
         communities, who had limited access to vital items - such as food, water and healthcare.
For Further Investigation
1.       Establishing a standardised national procedure to enable continued movement of freight and
         workers during a pandemic across land, air and sea borders.
2. Establishing rapid responses for remote and regional-based people who require essential
   supports, including food, water and medications.




                                                    OFFICIAL
                                                OFFICIAL




3.5      Data and Information Sharing

Data was not always shared between governments in a timely way, which limited the
efficacy of public health and economic support measures
•    Delivery of the vaccine rollout, testing and financial supports were hindered by access to data
     sets held between different levels of Government. Challenges included regulatory,
     governance and institutional barriers to information sharing, particularly between levels of
     government.

Case Study
•    NSW was often unable to access the detailed data sets needed to target its public health
     response in real-time. This included data held by the Commonwealth Government on
     vaccination rates by geography and different cohorts. This data was eventually shared with
     NSW demonstrating technical barriers could be overcome within existing legislative
     frameworks.
•    State and territories efforts to target distribution of rapid antigen tests to vulnerable cohorts
     were similarly limited by an inability to access Australian Taxation Office (ATO) data. In NSW
     this meant taking a broad approach to distribution through NSW government service centres
     and community organisations.
•    A lack of data (particularly ATO data) from the Commonwealth was a key barrier for NSW to
     assess, implement and cost the NSW component of the Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment and
     High-Risk Settings Pandemic Payment. Agreements between ATO and Service NSW were
     needed for each program but were not in place until after programs commenced.
•    Additionally, sharing of ATO data was critical for determining eligibility for business supports
     and mitigating fraud.
•    State and territory developed applications worked well to support public health and safety
     measures such as venue check-ins and positive case notifications. However, integration of
     vaccine certification with apps was slow to implement and the end solution was difficult to
     navigate for users. This limited uptake and its utility as a compliance tool and epidemiological
     data input.
Further Investigation
1.   Proactive data sharing arrangements between the Commonwealth and state and territories to
     enhance national ability to make well-informed, targeted policy decisions.
2. Embedded processes which provide a pathway to the Commonwealth and states and
   territories sharing of data expeditiously to inform public health and economic responses.
3. Access to, and quality of data to support Aboriginal Australians’ outcomes, across
   government.
4. Planning and coordination of key health data and certifications with government service
   applications and technologies including cross-jurisdiction operability.




                                                OFFICIAL
                                               OFFICIAL




4        References/other materials
Further to the above, NSW invites the Inquiry to consider these supplementary materials drawn
from previous NSW reports and inquiries.
    •       As one system: The NSW Health System’s Response to COVID-19
    •       As one system: The NSW Health System’s Response to COVID-19 - Progress Report
    •   NSW Health commissioned report on the NSW public health response to the COVID-19
        pandemic
    •       Audit Office Report: New South Wales COVID-19 vaccine rollout
    •       Audit Office Report: Coordination of the response to COVID-19 (June to November 2021)
    •       Coordination of the response to COVID-19 (June to November 2021)
    •   Report - Improving crisis communications to culturally and linguistically diverse
        communities - NSW Legislative Assembly




                                               OFFICIAL
