COVID Inquiry submission 15.12.2023

My name is Roger Klemke. I am a father of|children and|grandchildren.

I had worked in the Mental Health sector for 15 years until COVID came.

I lost my job because of the vaccine mandates.

I choose not to get the vaccine because it was not tried and tested for human use.

This was the most devasting time in my life. I lost my job, income, career and opportunity to help
those who were struggling mentally, because of the mandates It mentally affected me. I was working
from home and was still told to have the vaccine. Nothing made sense in the handling of COVID 19

I ask the panel to investigate the following.

Full Investigation in COVID 19 Management

I demand a full investigation into handling of the COVID 19 Pandemic both Federally and State
governments. As the terms of reference do not cover this, I still ask for this as we need to cover all
areas if we are going to learn from this. This will benefit our nation going forward, our government
and the people who serve under them.

Misinformation

Questions need to be asked.

    1.      How many people died from COVID and not just with COVID.

I had a friend in Sydney who had to go to hospital because                They were tested for
COVID and the test was negative. Then the Hospital put her into a COVID Ward and she did not have
COVID. Why??? Her husband could not see her because of the COVID rules. In all that time she did not
get COVID but she dic^^ after one week in the ward. Her husband asked for a death certificate, and
it stated she died from COVID but she never had it. He was so pset by the lies and not been able to
see her. How many others were treated the same way.

There needs to be an investigation in all COVID deaths and treatments.



    2.      Trust the science

Can this investigation demand who were the health authorities giving out the information. What
science were they following. Name them and demand the science to see what science they were
following.



    3.      Ivermectin was unsafe.

    Why was Doctors not allowed to use ivermectin. Proven medication that helped people recover
    from COVID. Please investigate this. Suddenly GPs can use it now.
4.      Vaccines are safe.

I had so many family members and work colleagues have vaccine injuries. For example: M
                                     to name a few. Some died. Some are permanently
damaged. Have an enquiry into this.



5.      Vaccines are effective and will stop you from getting it and spreading COVID.

I know so many people who have had the vaccines and still getting COVID but those like me who
did not get the vaccine are not getting it. Isn't this misinformation. Please investigate who told
this lie. Is this the science that they were following.



6.      The unvaccinated spread COVID

Misinformation. An enquiry needs to be around this. Where was the science for this one?? As
stated above vaccinated still spread COVID. Please call for enquiry into this.

A full enquiry needs to happen on the effectiveness of the vaccines, injuries, deaths etc. How
much money was involved in the deals with Pifzer and other vaccine companies.



7.      Lockdowns/Border closures

I live in ^^^^and it was a nightmare as I worked                Vic had mask mandates and NSW
did not. Vic had lockdowns and NSW did not. This was so stressful. Nothing made sense. Follow
the science! Which state was right? Different science! What science? I ask you again to find out.
Where was this coming from? Why each state had different science?

Border closures need to be looked at for future pandemics and the science.

One example from the mental health clients                 When the first lockdown happened in
               the clients could not understand why this happened in
called a state lockdown. There were no cases of COVID at all in                         that time.
All our clients were not allowed to have any face-to-face contact. Why they asked - there is no
COVID here?

This was terrible. In all that time^^^H or^^^^^had hardly any cases but we were still in
lockdowns. More cases grew as the vaccine roll out happened. This needs to be investigated why
regional towns and areas had to be locked down. All community support stopped when so few
cases of COVID? Please investigate this!!
Thank you for the opportunity to state things from my experience and areas of work

I trust you will ask for a FULL INVESTIVATION

If you need more information, I am very happy to do so. I have so much I say and share

Finally, the way the government handled COVID 19 was so overpowering and fear mongering.
Their response, lockdowns, mandates, isolations, vaccines, misinformation caused more damage
to people then COVID itself.

I did get COVID 19 the day I was fired for not getting the vaccine. I was not stressed. Never felt
like dying and used natural medicines to build my system up to fight it like any flu. Praise God I
am fine.

Thanks again.

Roger Klemke
