                 Commonwealth Calls for Submission into Covid Enquiry

                                          Glenn Davey - Perth

To Whom it May Concern,

I was born in Perth and a resident of^^^^|for 46.1 have a degree in Chemical Engineering,
graduating with honours and a keen interest in the workings of the economy which is why I tended
towards project engineering. I studied economics and management in addition to my engineering
degree. I was working in the Iron ore industry at the time of the pandemic and can see first hand
what damage the government caused through their poor and uninformed decision making.

I can also say I had covid without any injections and was on a spin bike within 4 days, as I predicted
from the outset. I exercise 5-6days a week and eat healthy, I knew that was all I needed to protect
myself.

I feel compelled to write to you in advance of this enquiry and calling for nothing less than a full
Royal Commission into the disastrous response to the Covid situation to the point of criminal
negligence. I don't have any new compelling evidence, can just point out what you have readily
available and people are wanting to know why nothing has been done about it. Rather than fluff
around words I will add some points under your suggested categories but will start with the
'vaccination' and the economy



Key Health Response Measures

    •     Wearing of masks was NEVER going to work, and this was already known and documented
          before the pandemic
    •     People wearing masks in 47C+ heat outdoors in the^^^^ The mask was a soggy mess

          within lOmins - doing dangerous work. Short of breath and breathing in stale bacteria.
          Apparently chopping of your hand with an welding lance was less risky than getting a snotty
          nose in a time when maybe 3-5 people IN THE STATE of W.A had covid? (I left the mining
          industry as a result)
    •     As I eluded to in my opening paragraph I was always certain being fit and healthy was the
          best defence against this virus, or ANY illness for the that matter. Yet people were blocked
          from going to gyms an forced to wear masks during heavy exercise. I can guarantee you this
          was extremely risky to those exercising.
    •     From discussions with my Dr I wanted to have a treatment of antiviral medicines for myself
          and my family. This was after hearing it first hand by US president Donald trump. I then
          found the Australian government had BANNED Dr's from offering this treatment. Yet now
          post pandemic they are pushing it has a new product? This was a disgraceful abuse of the
          medical system and denied Australians a necessary ad effective medical treatment. So we are
          I ordered mine online from India. My family was not going to be denied by politicians
          pretending to by health practitioners.



'Quarantining'

          The governments decision to house people quarantining from abroad in the CBD was one of
          the most negligent decisions of the pandemic.
'Vaccinations'

    •   I do not wish to use the term vaccine, given a vaccine cures a disease. This was never
        anything more than a trial flu needle. A cold or flu like virus simply cant be cured which why I
        knew it was pointless to have it, nor do I have the flu needle and indecently he last time I
        caught the fly was around 2003.
    •      The 'vaccine' was said to be both safe and 96% effective. Clearly it was neither.
    •      It is a FACT the 'vaccine' was not 96% effect and this was a lie from the outset.
    •      It was said to be Safe when on the governments own TGA website it said anything but.
    •      These were direct lies to the Australian public and must be answered for.
    •      Children were not at risk yet were pushed to have it.
    •       Pregnant women were forced to take this insufficiently trialled injection.
    •   Those with health issues / cancer remission / Diabetes were told they had to have it or be
        sacked or unable to enter public spaces.
    •   To state the obvious ABS statistics clearly show a massive spike in Excess Deaths at the time
        the covid mandates were pushed and CAN NOT be blamed on covid. Why wasn't there a
        massive investigation carried out with urgency the first moment the death rate spiked? The
        government was happy to throw all chips down and keep people injecting no matter what
        the risk. This was CRIMINAL and those who orchestrated it need to be jailed. This alone
        needs a royal commission. Those who chose to not follow this up now that the PM and State
        premiers have conveniently scuttled off down the drain should be held just as liable for
        choosing to sandbag the Australian public.

Economic Terrorism

    •      and his government signed off on $580million dollars to by useless plastic RAT
        tests when only $3million was budgeted. At any level of business this was negligent beyond
        all measure. How it could not be construed as a criminal act is just mind boggling. This
        should be argued before the courts w    ^^^^Hand his cabinet on the stands explaining
        what was THEFT or Australian taxpayers dollars. If you would like some back I have some 345
        in my bathroom cabinet since they were handing them out 50 at a time to each of my kids at
        school at my work and at shops. Naturally I will be binning them as the waste of space they
        are. At least there is some room in governments cash reserves now??
    •   Need I mentioned the $400171 quarantine centre in^^^|           hat was NEVER going to be
        ready in time. Yet up north            you have a maternity hospital built with no budget
        for staff....or hell you only need to look at the unused Neonatal ward at ^^^^^^^|with
        no staff. Well there's your budget for it.
    •   Border Lockdowns for that period of time were pointless, it was blatantly obvious the
        injections weren't going to work. All it did was delay our 35,000 odd daily causes, not
        prevent them. So the economic destruction that unfolded was for nothing.
    •   To state the obvious demand and supply - high school economics. The wise premier cut off
        the supply of building materials at a time when demand was already peaked. Now family
        living crisis has come to bear exactly as I said it would. Builders were already years behind
        now even closing doors saying no new business. Many builders already went bankrupt of
        course. This was 100% predictable and avoidable.
    •   Due to the reduced supply that the government orchestrated food prices have soared,
        everyone has jumped on the band wagon. Its commonly being called 'Covid Tax'. Any
        supplier or contractor now just says the word 'covid' and ups the prices. Only now is their
        any talk of action into investigating Woolworths and Coles and the like after their massive
        profits - but what does the government care - the more people pay for food the more GST
        they get.
   •    Petrol - likewise - lockdowns, grounding planes. Far less fuel needed. The big petro's had to
        shut production and loose huge amounts of revenue. Did anyone honestly think they weren't
        going to claw that back post pandemic....here we are with $2+ prices at the bowser....exactly
        as I predicted. But just blame the Ukraine war now. We aren't all that naive. This of course
        feeds into every aspect of goods and services given fuel needed to produce and transport
        goods. Well done again.
   •    Airfares - Exact same logic. Did anyone think the airlines weren't going to claw all that lost
        revenue back the first chance they got?
   •    Preventing people from working by draconian mandates. Engineers, Doctors, Nurses, Police,
        teachers..... all prevented from doing their jobs if they chose not to have this inadequately
        trialled injection.
   •    Aside from preventing them from working, their was those sacked outright and who's
        families were severely impacted as a result.
   •    Hoping on planes and buses with every 2nd seat dangertaped off. Was this ever going to do
        an absolute thing other than cost business double. Our minsite had to double the amount of
        buses and plane trips. For what? You are all onboard breathing the same air. All adding to the
        price of the end product to the consumer.

Broader Health And Social Supports

    •   People prevented from surgery if unvaccinated (by their definition - that is if you haven't had
        a booster....) The waiting list ballooned - peoples health put at risk, certainly their quality of
        life destroyed by pain relieving operations being delayed.

Community Supports

    •   Keeping kids out of school has caused long term damage to my children.
        grades have dropped drastically.
    •        Kids at best doing training - without a ball?????
   •    You are in for an increase in mental health issues for the next decade. Watch the stats and
        you will see I am correct.
    •   Reducing wedding sizes are one thing, but preventing people from attending funerals -just
        disgusting.
   •        Danger tape on playground swings???

Financial Support for Individuals

   •    The jobseeker scheme was a perfect inflation machine. Printing money to people to do
        nothing, when they could have just let them go to work.

Governance

   •    Where is the investigation into the origins of the Virus! This is the biggest event since WWII,
        even bigger than 911 and nothing. There has always been overwhelming evidence that it was
        not naturally occurring and lab based. No conspiracy theory, all aired in the walls of the US
        Senate and Congress, Where is Australia's demand for answers on behalf of the people. We
        deserve a right to know the truth. Their has been endless searches for the missing Malaysia
        flight but on this....radio silence. Australia needs to be relentless in pursuit with global
        leaders to get to the bottom of this. If research of this nature is still continuing it should be
          made illegal, and if any other country continue the practice then it should be discussed with
          our foreign affairs minister and trade sanctions established with those reckless nations
          insisting on continuing such research at the peril of the rest of the globe.
    •     The mandates were completely illegal. They were not law. For the government and
          employers to say they are law then explain why for example changing firearm laws will take
          time. Just issue a mandate? If a mandate was law you could use it for everything.
    •     Families were illegally deprived of income and lost jobs. They were put under siege by the
          government. Anyone who had been vaccinated was just as likely to catch covid and once
          they had covid just as likely to spread it. FACT. Yet they were allowed to work and un-injected
          people were. (But by all means if you haven't been vaccinated for chicken pox and measles
          you are most welcome to come to work with open arms).
    •     There was gross manipulation of data throughout the pandemic. It was both deliberate and
          calculated and nothing short of Fraud. Classing people without boosters as being
          unvaccinated. The whole dying with covid not of covid. You already know this but it went
          deeper than that. Funding statistics to justify the injections.
    •     Social Distancing. I still have no idea. You cant go to the shops but can go to buy food. You
          cant be alcohol even that is the bottle-0 attached to woolworths. If you'd seen someone who
          had covid you have to quarantine for 2 weeks then 1 week - now you can go to work with
          Covid??? How's about common sense - if you feel unwell stay home.


Support for Industry and Businesses

    •     What support? Try telling that to builders like m^^^^Hthat couldn't work because there
          was a lockdown due to 3 people in the entire stat^navmg covid. (Despite working on a roof
          in open air with 3 workers left with no pay - not to mention the person without their roof
          being done)
    •     Try telling that the coffee shops and restaurants sent to bankruptcy because the city was
          empty.
    •         Tourism completely stopped
    •         Airlines grounded.
    •         Is this all support the government refers to??

No closing summary needed other than the Excess Death figures alone warrant a full Royal
Commission. You have all of the data you need for that.



Regards

Glenn Davey
