HRC submission

To whom it may concern,

My name is Phillip Norman and I live                    In November 2021 I lost my job due to my
conscientious objection to the WA Covid Vaccine mandates imposed by the McGowan government.
I was employed as a bookkeeper/payroll officer at a local disability services provider and had the
ability to perform all aspects of my job working remotely from home, but despite this I was
needlessly terminated by my employer.

I objected to the vaccine mandates because they had not undergone the normal rigorous long-term
testing process that vaccines are usually subjected to and as such, I was not convinced that, in
taking the vaccine, I would not be at risk of long-term side effects.

The period during which the vaccine mandates were imposed by the McGowan state government
was one of the most stressful periods of my life. I was on the receiving end of outright
discrimination and harrassment because I did not agree with the prevailing narrative regarding the
safety of the new Covid vaccines. I also believed it to be a violation of basic human rights to be
forced to receive a vaccination that had not undergone thorough testing and which had been well-
documented to cause serious side-effects such as myocarditis.

Why should I place myself at risk of developing myocarditis by taking a vaccine of questionable
safety and efficacy - one that could have a permanent effect on my health? Moreover, on
29/09/2021 the Australian Bureau of Statistics stated on their website that “COVID-19 was the 38th
ranked cause of death in 2020”. This indicates that there were 37 other conditions that caused a
greater number of deaths than Covid 19 at the height of the pandemic. This begs the question - why
was there not the same level of media and government attention given to these 37 other causes?

I have attached a couple of documents to this submission which provide evidence that vaccine
deployment programs actually had the effect of increasing Covid 19 cases, and that vaccination did
not have the effect of preventing transmission, as 89% of new covid cases in the UK were among
the fully vaccinated (please see references below).

This was an extremely stressful period in my life because I was unable to get a new job because of
the vaccine mandates. After losing my job, I repeatedly applied for jobs which I was well qualified
for, only to be turned down because of my non-vaccinated status. I cannot begin to describe the
intensity of despair that this situation caused both myself and my partner. No one should be
deprived of the ability to earn an income and support themselves and their loved ones purely
because of their political beliefs. During this time I experienced intense depression and anxiety and
sought support through counselling to alleviate my suffering. I experienced suicidal thoughts and
was deeply fearful of being unable to pay our bills and to continue being able to support and house
myself and my wife. In turn this no-win situation placed an enormous strain on our relationship.

Fortunately, after a couple of months of being unemployed and being repeatedly turned away by
employers because of my vaccination status I was able to obtain employment. However, as it turned
out, it was in the very last place that I ever expected to be able to find employment. To my
astonishment, I managed to secure a position at the Department of Premier and Cabinet (DPC) in
West Perth, despite the fact that Premier McGowan was the one that imposed the vaccine mandates.
I was informed that the vaccine mandates did not apply to any of the employees of DPC because it
was classed as a Federal department, and not a state department. I was utterly incredulous but
nevertheless grateful that I could resume earning an income. My wife was also able to continue
working at the Department of Justice throughout this period. Again, for reasons unknown, the
vaccine mandates were not imposed on the employees of her particular department.

The fact that various government departments were exempt from the vaccine mandates proves that
the vaccine mandates were never a public health measure, but rather purely a political maneuvre
aimed at bolstering the public’s opinion of McGowan’s leadership at the time. If it truly were a
public health measure aimed at preventing the transmission of the virus, then it would go without
saying that the mandates would have applied to all individuals in Western Australia, and that no one
at all (including those in privileged Government departments) would be exempt from the vaccine. I
am grateful that during our period of employment in our respective government departments we
were exempt from having to be vaccinated, however it merely highlighted the hypocritical and
ludicrous nature of the vaccine mandates. It makes no sense at all that workers in specific
government departments should be exempt from vaccine mandates purely because they work in
particular departments. But again, this happened because the mandates were imposed for political
reasons, and not public health reasons.

You might be tempted to conclude that “all’s well that ends well”, however that is not the point.
Thousands of people were not as fortunate as myself to be able to find a way to continue supporting
themselves throughout the period that the mandates were imposed. Like myself, they were treated
like lepers and prevented from entering bars and restaurants and so forth. No one should ever have
to endure such discriminatory treatment from others and be treated with such contempt because of a
government’s public policy.

While we were employed at our respective government jobs, we continued to be on the receiving
end of harrassment and discriminatory behaviour because our employers (and all employers for that
matter) failed to recognise that labelling individuals as “anti-vaxxers” and condoning derogatory
comments towards those who objected to the vaccine mandates met all of the standard definitions of
discrimination and harrassment.

According to the Fairwork Act, discrimination “occurs when an employer takes adverse action
against an employee or prospective employee because of one or more of the following attributes:
race
colour
sex
sexual orientation
breastfeeding
gender identity
intersex status
age
physical or mental disability
marital status
family or carer’s responsibilities
pregnancy
religion
political opinion
national extraction
social origin.”

We had no choice but to silently endure such treatment from colleagues, and regularly had to listen
to conversations where people openly ridiculed those who objected to the vaccine mandates as
“anti-vaxxers” and as being “selfish individuals” who should be rounded up en mass and put to
death, and such like. We had to endure such treatment silently because we knew that if we
complained of such mistreatment it would be dismissed by our employers on the grounds that such
behaviour could be condoned because the victims concerned had gone against the government’s so-
called “health directive”.

In times of future pandemics, people need to have their autonomy and rights respected so that they
can make decisions that can profoundly and irreversibly impact their health - in this instance,
whether or not to take vaccines of dubious quality - free from duress and discrimination. Australia
also needs to shore up it’s anti-discrimination laws so that those who choose not to take
vaccinations are not discriminated against or harassed, and so that they have recourse for protection
and compensation in the face of such discrimination.


References:

Australian Bureau of Statistics, “Mortality rate declines during the first year of the pandemic”
https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/media-releases/mortality-rate-declines-during-first-year-
pandemic. Accessed 12/12/2023.

Beattie, K.A. (2021). “Worldwide Bayesian Causal Impact Analysis of Vaccine Administration on
Deaths and Cases Associated with CO VID-19: A Big Data Analysis of 145 Countries”.
https://vector-news.github.io/editorials/CausalAnalysisReport_html.html . Accessed 12/12/2023

The Lancet (2021). “Lancet: 89% Of New UK COVID Cases Among Fully Vaxxed.”
https://principia-scientific.com/lancet-89-of-new-uk-covid-cases-among-fully-vaxxed/ . Accessed
12/12/2023
