Submission to the COVID-19 Response Inquiry
To the members of the panel,
I do not say Independent Panel, because the Panel is, clearly, not independent. The
Covid-19 response in Australia was a mindless disaster. Politicians, public servants,
the medical profession and the media fell competed to parrot the latest and most
medically and socially dangerous policies from a selected range of overseas
jurisdictions, excepting those few, like Sweden, that took an a approach of
humanity and sanity.
The independence required of such an inquiry as this is independence from the
groupthink and mutual backslapping and support that created this disaster in the
first place.
Yet the panel Chair, Ms Robyn Kruk AO, is a woman who "brings a wealth of
relevant senior executive experience in the health and social care sectors and whole
of government policy and operational areas including emergency management to
the Inquiry. [She] has led state and Australian Government agencies, including as
the Secretary of New South Wales Health, Secretary of Department of Premier and
Cabinet, Secretary of the Commonwealth Department of the Environment, Water,
Heritage and the Arts, and was the inaugural CEO of the National Mental Health
Commission."
Even imputing the best of motives to Ms Kruk, this appointment is of a Public
Service insider's insider, and it alone has sent the unambiguous message that the
COVID-19 boat will not be rocked, quite apart from the risible Terms of Reference.
This for the simple reason that anyone so deeply connected with Public Service
networks has no incentive and a strong disincentive to issue the kind of severe
criticisms that the terrible events and policies of the COVID years demand.
Yet the placing of Ms Kruk's reliable administrative hand on the tiller is as nothing
compared to the dropping of Professor Catherine Bennett into the boat.
"Professor Catherine Bennett's infectious disease epidemiology career cuts across
health, university and government sectors, including outbreak preparedness and
response with NSW Health and the Australian Government...
"Catherine has been a prominent public analyst during the COVID-19 response,
keynote speaker, and advisor to industry, governments, and institutions globally."
Surely a Professor of such standing would have castigated the draconian measures
that destroyed Australia's international reputation as a country that treasured
freedom and democracy, whose people had been prepared to die to defend that
reputation and reality. The holder of a Chair in Epidemiology might have been
expected to stand with more famous epidemiologists like Professor John loannidis,
possibly the best-known epidemiologist in the world, or Professors Jay
Bhattacharya, Sunetra Gupta and Martin Kulldorff, primary signatories of the Great
Barrington Declaration, Which eventually accrued over 930,000 signatures. It is
summarised as:
As infectious disease epidemiologists and public health scientists we have grave concerns
about the damaging physical and mental health impacts of the prevailing CO VID-19
policies, and recommend an approach we call Focused Protection.
The "prevailing COVID-19 policies" were precisely those which were put into effect
in Australia, and most egregiously in the State of Victoria, in which Professor
Bennett resides, works, and was a "prominent public analyst during the CO VID-19
response." Scenes from Victoria's black-shirt tyranny horrified audiences around
the world.
Did Professor Bennett draw the attention of the public to the Great Barrington
Declaration, if even to explain why ti should be ignored? Did she bring it to the
attention of the "industry, governments, and institutions" to which she was an
adviser? If so, no hint of it has surfaced in public.
For a flavour of Professor Bennett's speaking truth to power, see this article from
3rd of July, 2021, featuring a lead item and photograph of Professor Bennett.
'Prof Catherine Bennett recalls being in a supermarket the first time she was
recognised. "A woman called out acknowledging she'd seen me on TV. She
screamed out, T love you!"' ... Bennett.. .is one of a number of Australian experts
who have been thrust into the spotlight by the Covid-19 pandemic.'
Dan Andrews maintained broad public support by adjusting his policies, as we
now know, not to any scientific advice, but to the results of constant polling. This is
called "following the Science." Many people in Victoria were, in effect, calling out
"I love you" to Dan Andrews, as he trashed Victoria. Professor Bennett basked in
the sleazy ambience of Dan Andrews black-shirt government.
Her appointment is an utter disgrace, and if she wishes to recover any shred of
professional integrity from the pit of the COVID years, she should resign from the
Panel.
My comments bout the inappropriateness of Ms Kruk's appointment apply also to
Dr Angel Jackson, Lead Economist at Impact Economics and Policy. She started
"her career as an economist at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet,
Angela has worked across tax, fiscal and social policy. As the Deputy Chief of Staff
to the Australian Finance Minister, Angela provided policy advice across fiscal
policy and all areas of social policy, including National Health Reform." Enough
said. Another truly independent voice on the Independent Panel.
I note that the Human Rights Commissioner has been critical of the scope of thsi
Inquiry.
I support the position put by the Citizen Go submission, and I have signed that
organisation's submission.


Peter West
