I am a disabled writer and advocate who continues to take precautions during the
ongoing pandemic. I am passionate about access and inclusion, particularly the use
of plain language and Easy Read to deliver information in a way that is clear and
easy to understand for the widest possible audience.
The concerns I wish to raise in this submission mostly relate to the reduction and
ultimate removal of mandatory isolation periods, as well as public health messaging
around the use of masks and the risks of single and repeated COVID infections.
The removal of mandatory isolation for those who test positive for COVID-19 on
October 14 2022 was terrifying and dangerous for myself and many others. We are
essentially housebound as this is the only way to keep ourselves safe. Removing
mandatory isolation meant that people could - can - spread a virus whose long term
impacts we are only just beginning to understand.
Wearing a mask - specifically an N95 mask - is one of the precautions I take
whenever I leave my house or have visitors. However, due to a failure of public
health messaging, most people no longer wear masks. Those who do often wear
surgical masks which - though better than nothing - are not as effective. I am
disappointed that the Department of Health website says nothing about the
effectiveness of different types of masks. Masks are also not affordable for many
people, particularly as the cost of living increases. While I am deeply grateful that
some NDIS participants can claim the cost of masks and other PRE, the cost of
masks are likely to be a deterrent for those who would otherwise wear one and
prioritise their safety and that of others.
I would like to get my next COVID vaccine, but when I contacted several of the
vaccine providers listed on the Australian Department of Health website, I was told
they did not administer COVID vaccinations.
As a disabled person well aware of the risks of a single COVID infection (let alone
repeated infections) much of the world has become unsafe and inaccessible for me. I
hope that my submission and the broader results of this inquiry demonstrate that we
can and should do more to educate people about and protect them from the ongoing
COVID pandemic. Please feel free to contact me for further information.
