Submission on the need for a Royal Commission on the Government's and States' responses to the
Covid-19 pandemic

I am                                        years old.

I strongly support the instigation of a Royal Commission into the Federal and States Governments'
responses to the Corona Virus pandemic.

There seems to have been inadequate responses that led to lockdowns and loss of economic
activity.

It seems the pandemic did not meet the definition original requiring a large number of deaths and
widespread transmission.

There appears to be large collusion between pharmaceutical companies, governments, health
officials with the sole purpose of profiting from injections and other medications.

Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) were not followed in the production of vaccines.

Mandates and emergency declarations were misused.

PCR tests were used instead of proper diagnostic tests, resulting in too many false positives.

Quarantine was applied to healthy individuals, instead to only the sick.

Censorship was widespread.

Doctors were threatened with dismissal if not following the official line.

Police brutality was widespread against peaceful demonstrators, rubber bullets used.

The experimental injection was not adequately tested, was not safe and was ineffective.

The experimental injection was in fact a genetic therapy, not a traditional vaccine. It has the
potential to affect DNA permanently. Long term effects are unknown.

The WHO International Health Regulations and proposed Treaty are about to be approved without
consultation or participation by the Australian people, resulting in loss of our national sovereignty
and loss of human rights to own health treatment choices. Unelected WHO officials will dictate our
future response to their decisions. This must not be allowed to happen.

These and many other issues prompt me to request a Royal Commission be Instigated to investigate
thoroughly and recommend prosecutions for those in Governments responsible for deaths and
destruction in Australians' health.
