Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Inclusive Health Communication in Disability Accommodation (Anderson et al.)



Inclusive Health Communication in Disability Accommodation
The following submission presents the outcomes of research into the way information about COVID-
19 and other infectious disease is communicated in disability group homes.

This research was led by                                                               from 2021-2023. The
research team includedB



                                 ■This work was conducted in partnership with Able Australia,
Northcott, Inclusion Melbourne, Agosci Inc., and independent consultants from across Australia.

This work was funded with by the MRFF Coronavirus Research Response Communication Strategies
& Approaches During Outbreaks Grant Opportunity, and supplemented by the Institute for Health
Transformation at Deakin University.

This submission is relevant to the following Terms of Reference for this Inquiry:

1.   Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations. In this
     case, the population is people with intellectual disability or complex communication needs,
     living in disability group home accommodation.
2.   Key health response measures - in this case, public health messaging.
3.   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, state and territory
     governments and other government agencies, is also addressed.

Context

When COVID-19 was first detected in Australia, disability group homes worked hard to protect their
residents and staff from infection. Having access to health information is an important part of
staying safe. We knew that some people living and working in group homes were having difficulty
accessing accurate and relevant information, making decisions about their own health, and
expressing their concerns. This was especially true for people with complex communication needs,
including residents with severe or profound intellectual disability, people who were deafblind, and
people who used alternative or augmentative communication modes other than speech. Our
research aimed to: 1) evaluate how well current COVID-19 communication was working for these
populations; 2) identify what information was important for them to understand and express; 3)
learn about any communication supports or strategies that were working well; and 4) create some
guidelines that could inform policies or resources for future outbreaks.

Our research project involved several small studies including: a systematic literature review;
interviews with group home residents (6), support workers (10) and group home managers (2),
guided tours of two group homes, and a Delphi study with experienced group home staff. Each stage
of our research was guided by advisory partners in industry and advocacy.




'-Deakin University School of Health and Social Development, Burwood, VIC, Australia; 2Deakin University Institute for
Health Transformation, Burwood, VIC, Australia; 3Able Australia, Surrey Hills, VIC, Australia; 4Western Sydney University
School of Nursing, Penrith, NSW, Australia; 5School of Education, University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand; 6 Intensive
Care Unit, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Metro South Health, Brisbane, Q.LD, Australia; 7School of Nursing and Midwifery,
Griffith University, Brisbane, QLD, Australia; 8Deakin University School of Nursing, Burwood, VIC, Australia; 9School of
Computing Technologies, RMIT University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia; Sydney School of Public Health, 10University of
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
                                     RMIT Classification: Trusted

Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Inclusive Health Communication in Disability Accommodation (Anderson et al.)


Findings and Recommendations
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on the wellbeing of people living in disability
group homes due to restricted access to work, leisure, family, friends, and communication supports.
Residents and staff have navigated complex tensions between personal autonomy, collective
responsibility, and duty of care regarding infection control. Our research showed that group home
residents have been living in an "information soup" of COVID-19 policy and procedure documents,
informal discussion with friends, family and staff, and exposure to news media. This information has
not always been accessible or consistent.



     We got most information through the news and we basically heard it from the media. - Resident

   We put the poster inside the house everywhere. How to wash your hands properly, how to keep the
   social distancing ... how to correctly wear masks. This all the information from the organisation. -
                                             Support Worker


Here are four important recommendations for inclusive health communication approaches resulting
from this project:

Autonomy in information access: In line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disability, group home residents should have autonomy in how they access, display,
and act on health information relating to infectious disease. Supported decision-making techniques
can enable autonomy in health discussions and decisions: for more information see My Rights:
Supported Decision Making.

Accessible and individualised information supports: Accessible health information formats
should be available to group home residents with intellectual disability, including simple and familiar
language, videos (which include sign language or key word sign), picture-supported text, repetition,
and practical demonstrations of health protection measures. Individualised supports are valuable,
but they are not always feasible under current group home conditions. Inclusive communication
requires time, expertise, staff commitment, tailored information resources and interpersonal
rapport.


  One of the clients, she's an artist, so she'll say, 'COVID bad.' That sort of thing. And she'll on occasion,
   she'll paint images of staff wearing masks, that's her way of expressing herself. - Support Worker


During the COVID-19 pandemic, staff absence and visitor restrictions reduced access to familiar
communication partners for people living in group homes. Proactive strategies such as personal
communication dictionaries can be useful in helping new or casual support workers to communicate
with residents who have complex communication needs about a range of topics, including health.

Attention to informal knowledge sharing: In addition to official information from the organisation
or the Government, informal information about COVID-19 was also shared in group homes. Informal
ways of sharing health information included: a) staff sharing personal opinions with residents and
colleagues, and b) residents sharing their personal opinions with staff, other residents, family, and
broader community members. Sometimes, this information and advice was different to official
Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
Inclusive Health Communication in Disability Accommodation (Anderson et al.)

health information from the Government. Hearing different information about COVID was confusing
for some staff and residents, because they did not know which information to trust.



  One of the clients doesn't - he doesn't want to have injection. Instead of actually asking us [for
  information], he is actually telling us why we shouldn't have it - Support Worker


Further research is required to understand the drivers of this information sharing, and how informal
communication might be leveraged to enhance health literacy in the future.

Comprehensive and collaborative change management

Improved health communication during future outbreaks is likely to require increased resourcing,
targeted professional development, mandatory policies and protocols, and the recruitment or
assignment of skilled staff. Co-designing solutions in a way that represents all affected residents and
staff will be essential.


   People are just given rules, without being included in making those rules - Manager



To be effective, change management around health communication in group homes must account
for the intersectional impacts of stigma, cultural diversity, gatekeeping, risk perception and
compliance pressures. Each disability group home is unique, so policies and protocols must be
tailored to the needs of each house and its residents. Managers and leaders in the sector told us that
initial policies for COVID-19 management had been a poor fit for the group home context: protocols
for nursing homes and hospitals were too clinical and strict, while recommendations for domestic
settings did not account for increased medical vulnerability, duty of care, or tensions between
collective and individual rights of residents in the home.

Suggestions for future pandemics
Disability group homes offer potential as important hubs for broader community health promotion.
Some residents we spoke to were keen to play an active role in public health, such as helping their
housemates, staff, family, friends, community members, or other people with disability to
understand or cope with a disease outbreak. Peer-to-peer models of health education have been
shown to be effective for people with intellectual and developmental disability; applications of this
approach in group home communities during infection outbreaks warrants further support.

Some group home staff and residents told us they felt unheard by decision-makers. Some residents
wanted an easier way to tell the Government what needed to change. For guidance on future
consultation with people who have intellectual disability, we recommend this resource from
Inclusion Australia: A-Guide-to-Planning-lnclusive-Consultations.pdf (inclusionaustralia.org.au). Be
aware that it can be difficult to directly access group home staff and residents during an outbreak.
Partnering with trusted staff members within disability organisations helped immensely.

For further information about this project please contact project lead Dr Kate Anderson
                            I A complete report has been submitted as supporting evidence, along
with a handout on best practice recommendations for communicating about infectious disease in
group homes. A plain language video can also be viewed on our project website: ic       saltf
Communication for SPA - Inclusive Health Research (deakin.edu.au).
