The purpose of this inquiry is to learn and thus improve Australia’s preparedness for future pandemics

Why did Australia’s response completely ignore it’s own recently published Australian Health Management Plan for
Pandemic Influenza? It should be noted that this plan did not advocate ‘lockdowns’, the closure of schools, the
mandating of ‘vaccines’ or the wearing of face masks.

If Australia had followed it’s own published advice and or done nothing at all, the number of deaths, destroyed lives
and businesses, and runined economy would not have occurred.


Term of reference: Key health response measures (COVID-19 vaccinations and public health messaging).

The Federal Government coerced the entire population to inject them with MRNA ‘vaccines’ while falsely claiming
they weren’t compulsory. The Federal Government encouraged the states and corporations to mandate it as a condi­
tion of employment, and refused to pass legislation to prevent vaccine discrimination.
The Federal and State Govememts were both in breach of the Nuremburg Code and politicians and public servents
deserve to be prosecuted.
None of the emergency use ‘vaccines’ have been proven to be safe and all have since been proven to be completely
ineffective at preventing death or transmission of covid-19. The Govememt was informed of these facts before the
roll out but has completely ignored all evidence.

The Federal and State Governments coerced the entire population to wear face masks to inhibit the spread of covid-
19. Against all evidence including in it’s own Management Plan that face masks are ineffective at preventing the
trasmission of airborne diseases such as flu or covid-19. There are now numerous studies showing that forcing
people to wear face masks in fact causes more illness. Perhaps this was the intention in the first place?

The rule of 6 feet between people or the standing on particular spots on the floor of businesses originated from a US
school girl’s high school project and is complete nonsense. Virus particles are not limited by arbitrary distances and
such ridiculous requirements resulted in many businesses being unable to trade.

It is now known by referring to published all cause deaths that there was no pandemic in 2020. Indeed there were
more deaths in 2019 than in all of 2020. All cause deaths only increased after the roll out of the coerced MRNA jabs
leading one to state there never was a pandemic and what we lived through from 2020 to the end of 2022 was noth­
ing more than a Government led psychological operation. All the Government needs to do in the highly
unlikely event of an actual pandemic such as the Spanish Flu is to follow it’s own published plan or even better, do
nothing at all and stay out of people’s lives. It absolutely should not do what it did between 2020 and 2022 because
the people are unlikely to be so easy to fool.
