Call for submissions and evidence to the COVID-19 Response
Inquiry
To whom it may concern,

My concern throughout the COVID Response was governance. While I understand that the
Australian Government was dealing with something that was largely unknown, the
measures that were taken were excessive and harmful on the health and trust of the
Australian people. The Governance of the Medical Profession by APRA severely
compromised the patient -doctor relationship. A Doctor was bound by APRA to promote
the vaccine even when they knew their patient was vulnerable to heart conditions and
therefore at risk when taking the vaccine. The Medical profession faced the threat of
deregistration if they gave any advice other than take the vaccine. This is a direct
contradiction to the first rule of being a doctor 'firstly do no harm' to your patient yet they
were forced into an impossible situation of promoting something that may cause harm or be
de-registered.

The governance for promoting the vaccine was blatantly deceptive. We were told that the
vaccine was safe and effective when the pharmaceutical industry really had no idea whether
the vaccine met either of these promises. It takes 5 years to give a conclusion that a vaccine
is safe and effective yet we were told after 5 months of trials to take a untried and untested
vaccine with full confidence. What made things worse was that anyone who questioned this
deceptive promotion of the vaccine and refused to take it was put out of their jobs by the
vaccine mandates placed on a large number of industries. The media was then used to
apply social pressure to take the vaccine when by using your common sense it was unwise.

There are many other areas that I could comment on like the use of excessive force by the
Police, the social effects of lockdowns, current excess death rates, but governance is the
number one thing that needs to be addressed in this inquiry. I am in contact with a large
number of people each week because of my profession. The most prominent effect I have
seen through the Governments poor governance is a deep suspicion about the Governments,
Medical Profession and Media’s intentions. If there is not a proper treatment of this inquiry
you will further promote this suspicion. This inquiry cannot just be about finding a few
positive things we have learnt. To regain the trust of the Australian people this inquiry needs
to hold our leaders to account for the deliberate abuse of power and an investigation into the
benefits that came to our Government, Medical Profession and Media in supporting the
narrative of the Pharmaceutical deception of safe and effective.

I thank you for the time you have given in reading this submission. I am encouraged and
have full confidence that you will act in a way that restores the Australian people’s trust in
their Government.

Yours Sincerely,

Neil Scott
