In the earliest days of the pandemic, the Federal, State and Local Governments could be
forgiven for almost anything, HOWEVER as these responses do in many instances still
endure, despite having been discredited, leaves ordinary Australians to deduce that we are not
being governed well or wisely.

This enquiry, with a ridiculously short lead time, and curious timing (right on Christmas) also
leads one to speculate that it is not likely to address the concerns of almost all ordinary
Australians.

Clearly politicians, bureaucrats and even so called medical experts are never likely to admit
any fault or accept responsibility for the incoherence of the response measures as measured in
the eyes of the Australian public.                                                            f
What is ultimately required, for full transparency and insights for future such emergencies, is
a full Royal Commission... however clearly this is unlikely be allowed. Therefore, we the!
people, will ultimately need to resort to class actions and a full judicial enquiry with jail terms
and other financial penalties for those that have blocked a Royal Commission.

To the facts:

a. No mandates at any time, were based on best practice, or what was widely accepted
measures, practised and tested before this.
b. All mandates destroyed community spirit and pitted Australian against Australian. This
will be the greatest cost to us.
c. The Federal Government acted un-constitutionally and never had the right to:
    i. Dissolve parliament and appoint a National Cabinet, with the Prime Minister having
multiple portfolios.
    ii. Indemnify drug companies for any product ever, BUT especially if they withhold all
data and trial results from being released to all people that will take the drug.
    iii. Close state borders. We are, since federation, one nation, and state governments acted
unconstitutionally by excluding Australians from unfettered access.
    iv. Allow the states, employers, and others to mandate vaccines, without full disclosure,
and confidential patient doctor information with individual permission by that individuals
doctors.
   v. Never should people have to disclose their vaccination or any other status in any place.
That is private.

d. Masks were mandated and they have never been seen as a barrier to viruses such as Covid.
e. Other treatments that have been effective in India and Switzerland, had efficacy markedly
higher than the path chosen by Australia.
f. The cost of the Vaccines have never been disclosed in entirety and Australians are entitled to
know this.

   The profits of the drug companies is an indication of the scale of this scam.
g. What happened to isolate those at risk and get on with life and business. To shut down the
entire economy, and borrow heavily to fund the stay at home mandates will punish
generations to come. The best analysis by Professor GIGI FOSTER Is that it cost Australia
$63 for every dollar spent. That is criminal in itself.
h. NO PERSON should now, still be stood down from work, and should be reimbursed, NOT
FROM TAXPAYERS FUNDS, in any way for personal health choices, especially considering:

i. Covid has a survivability of over 99% and many of the deaths in the earliest days of this
pandemic were caused by treatments that now are considered deadly ie Remdesivir.
ii . The vaccine did not reduce transmission nor does it reduce the impact of an infection... and
every Australian has now had Covid and therefore has natural immunity

I.   The all cause death statistics since the roll out of the vaccine is between 10 and 20 percent
     above the average... AND FOR THE SENATE TO VOTE AGAINST AN ENQUIRY
     INTO THIS IS ABSOLUTELY CRIMINAL.

In conclusion then, The Federal Government, state governments, big business employers and
medical bodies were clearly involved in this scam and all key players, if not willing to
contribute to a Royal Commission for the nation to learn from and never repeat the mistakes,
then they are likely guilty of crimes against humanity, and must ultimately be bought to
justice.
