Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry terms of reference Submission




    •   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
        and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet, the
        National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal
        Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

There was a lack of coordinated effort across the state and territory governments with covid and the
measures to manage the population through the period all being different. This was confusing as it
gave the impression that the government had no real plan as each state or territory devised
different measures, all for the treatment of the same pathogen. No reasons were provided for the
different measures put in place in the different regions, and the response was clumsy. For example,
WA having a hard border lock while the rest of Australia had measures that were less draconian.
That border closures were implemented is not justifiable, especially when NRL teams were
permitted to continue with their competition across state lines, albeit that the competition took
place in Queensland. If NRL teams were permitted to cross borders, why were fellow residents
unable to cross borders to see dying loved ones, as reported in ledia?




    •   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments,
        key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public
        health messaging).

The zilificati n and banning of treatments for covid 19 is a measure that needs to be included in the
terms of reference. These include thorough investigations of iv(    ectin and hydroxychloroquine as
an early treatment protocol. Both of these drugs were effective in early treatment of covid 19, yet
doctors in Australia were unable to prescribe them for off-label use, a practise that doctors often
make use of when they know that certain drugs can help with alternate conditions to what is
included in the drug information. The banning of these drugs also indicates the overreach of
bureaucratic entities and the lack of confidence they displayed in doctors and their knowledge to
practice effective medicine.

The ethics of mandating an experimental drug for a novel virus needs to be investigated. Little to no
evidence was available for the adverse reactions, or long-term side effects of the covid 19 injections,
and it would be unfair to claim that any person who received these injections had informed consent.
Data from vigiaccess.org that I retrieved on 18 November 2021 stated there were 2,528,564 records
of adverse drug reactions. (That figure is currently at 5,260,861, dated 15 December 2023). Yet when
I consulted with my doctor about the injection, she did not disclose any of the information that I
came across on this site.

That my doctor did not, or could not, disclose the adverse reactions of the injection leads to another
aspect that need to be included in the terms of reference - the overreach of bureaucratic structures,
such as APRAH. APRAH issued a position statement on 9 March 2021, essentially stating that the
expression of any anti-vaccination sentiment by medical practitioners could lead to prosecution by
APRAH. Medical practitioners were effectively gagged from disclosing all effects of the injection, if
they had such information, thus limiting the capacity to provide informed consent for those who
were injected.
The terms of reference are narrow and do not address the wide-ranging impact of the measures
taken by the Commonwealth Government in response to covid 19. Human rights abuses and medical
segregation that came into effect because of the vaccine passport system and vaccine mandates is
an aspect that should receive attention, and the impact of these on employment and mental
wellbeing. The far-reaching impact of the measures on schooling and the quality of education, as
well as the mental wellbeing of students through the measures that were implemented (albeit that
these differed between states and territories and were not federal actions) needs to be addressed.

Thank you for your consideration of my submission.
