I would like to submit a response requesting a proper Royal Commission and investigation into the
COVID response taken by this country, the processes taken by the government in the procurement of
the vaccines, the approval process by the TGA for granting emergency use authorisation of the
vaccines when other safer and effective options were available, ineffective use of mask mandates,
lockdowns, vaccine mandates, censoring of people who didn't support the governments narrative,
misinformation by the government and media outlets, vaccine adverse event reporting, and the
discrimination of those that are unvaccinated.


The vaccine mandates that were put in place created undue stress for many people including myself
and my family. The mandates caused me to no longer be welcome at my place of work for 17 years
creating financial hardship.

I held a permanent full time position in which I was able to utilise my clinical skills to assist the good
of the public. My role had a dual clinical/management caseload. Despite, offering to work from home
in a part time capacity to ensure the clinicians remaining at the hospital maximised their clinical skills
and availability, this was denied so as not to 'set a precedent' despite being desperate for clinical
staff (staff shortages prior to COVID).

I suffered financial loss, loss of job security and loss of a job role I enjoyed. I lost the 'perks' of staying
loyal to an employee all loyalty disregarded for hearsay and drama, without due thought to the
needs and actual risk vrs dramatized risk.

I heard many times after I left that^^^^^^^^^^l'needs me' to be at work due to my clinical
skills. However, those decisions made by the Government denied myself and others, the ability to be
at work and created the health crisis.

There was and continues to be no true recognition of alternative options to the vaccine, no
recognition that those options were and continue to be more successful. No recognition that those
options also happen to be cheaper as well as cost effective despite these being effectively used in
other countries.

There continues to be misinformation about the decision making that occurred during the pandemic;
creating fear rather than knowledge for informed decision making. This fear drove people to
discriminate against others and deny human rights.

Threatening health staff as to the communication they were allowed to share questions the validity
of that research and information in itself. This is of disservice to the public.

Science, which is what we were trained in, lost its validity when no one is allowed to question the
data and question the findings. How are we meant to find alternatives if we do not follow the actual
evidence.

I expect the full truth to come out - that the vaccines are ineffective and other solutions do exist. I
expect acknowledgement of the hardship created by the Government and the poor decisions they
made. I expect there to NEVER be another situation like this where the people are disadvantaged by
the poor decisions, considering all individuals as the same with a one size fits all approach. I am
disgusted by this situation and the poor management which continued to support something so
ineffective despite clear findings that it was not working and financially disadvantaged the country by
the pursuit of this mantra.
