14th December, 2023 - Submission to the COVID 19 Response Inquiry

Firstly, I want to report my outrage that the scope of this Inquiry excludes the Actions of State and
Territory Governments, as well as the International programs/activities assisting foreign countries.
Myself and many other were affected in a major way by issues outside the scope of this inquiry.
What a wasted opportunity to gather all appropriate information with one inquiry. This is wasteful of
taxpayer funds. https://em.citizengo.org/OTA3LU9EWSOwNTEAAAGQBEhFKtYo-
zCz7NxuAtvn2od4y2phmnk6xsulSJdJEmOSIuQctSfSXRKvEFqqueYYtbpTyWw=

With respect to Governance roles and responsibilities, please note my disgust with the TGA and
ATAGI during the COVID response. Transparency was missing during this time and the ability of these
organisations to insert themselves into the doctor/patient relationship was abhorrent. I understand
that government takes decisions based on what is best for the community as a whole, but each
individual still has the right to make informed decisions on their own health. Doctor's advice to
patients on safety of medical protocols should never be overruled. My trust in medicine as a practice
has been ruined.

I routinely used the DAEN from the TGA website to investigate the vaccines for myself and family. As
such I did note a stagnation of deaths noted from the C0VID19 vaccines some time in early 2022.
The deaths still have not gone up. I suspect manipulation of data. I also observed that the DAEN
changed how that database could be accessed and the ability to easily check if a patient with certain
health responses had died was removed. I remember my horror when searching the database as
research and finding the ages of deaths when the vaccines were brought in for children. One death
was for a child who had received the wrong vaccine. Children, with such a low risk from Covid,
should never have been vaccinated. In Australia at the time, I was extremely concerned about the
low amount of training those giving the vaccines received. There are medical procedures which can
be taught to minimise the likelihood of injecting the vaccine into a blood vessel rather than into
muscle as it should be. Unsafe procedure.

I object to the Australian government signing deals with pharmaceutical companies which are not
open to scrutiny. I object to taxpayer funds being handed over on such a massive scale to
organisations when the product is still in experimental phase. I strongly object to the mass
communication that the vaccines were "Safe and Effective" when, for example, trials of safety and
efficacy on pregnant women weren't even conducted by^^^H I object to the disregard of the
current death data which shows of the order of a 17% increase in all cause mortality over 2019
levels. I question why an Australian vaccine for COVID19 was held up from TGA approval when it had
been used in Iran for 20 million doses with no reported pericarditis, no myocarditis?

I personally was exposed to massive coercion to take an experimental COVID19 vaccine within the
workplace. I spent a huge amount of time outside of work, researching rules and loopholes to see
how I could possibly keep my employment. I had legal people from my Senator's staff looking into
ways I could remain at work. I joined a vaccine trial, which I believed to be safer, in order to avoid
the mRNA vaccines and AstroZeneca. I believe I was the only person at my workplace who didn't
take a vaccine. I believe I was bullied in the workplace because of my stance and because I did not
have to wear a mask as I had a mask exemption. I was forced to wear a face shield. The
effectiveness of masks and faceshields has not been proven to reduce the spread of disease within
community settings. Also anyone involved with confined space entries can tell you the detriment of
a low oxygen environment on human health, the inside of a mask on the human face is a low oxygen
environment. My employment at this workplace subsequently became untenable and I resigned at
the end of 2022. I still have not returned to the income level I had enjoyed prior to this time.

I am also a carer for             a I so not vaccinated.               prior to COVID required 6
operations per year to prevent a decline in health. Because of the lockdowns, he received only 3
operations. He was given medication, but regardless became very ill and was in a large amount of
pain. Higher levels of S8 pain medication were allowed for him. This is hardly a solution.
was very fortunate not to become addicted to these.

^^^^^^|also required massive surgery mid 2022. At the time, I was extremely concerned about
my ability to enter the hospital as a support person due to the rules. I happened to try to visit a
friend in hospital and was declined entry due to my vaccination status by security. I explained the
situation withto them and found that I could fill out a form which would be valid for 3
days to allow me entry.              was in hospital for one day less than a calendar month. What a
ridiculous imposition upon a family already experiencing high levels of stress. Too many stupid rules.

I could barely believe the financial supports for individuals during COVID. Whilst the income was
welcome to our household, Centrelink directed                         who hadn't been able to work due to
illness since mid 2017, to apply for Newstart, which was approved. This is ridiculous. I don't receive
Carer Payment due to the assets test, and I would normally not receive Newstart for the same
reason. Both of us received Newstart. Other measures should be in place as support for those
unable to work due to illness or injury and their carers, with asset tests removed.

Similarly, the financial supports to business were a disaster waiting to happen. I'm sure many
businesses took advantage and helped themselves to taxpayer funds fraudulently. Government
waiving Media License fees to the tune of $80 million smacks of a bribe.

I object to the taxpayer funds spent on ineffective quarantine facilities. I'm sure many of these were
mismanaged and the system rorted by companies for funds. Also a waste were the purpose built
detention centres which were extremely expensive and hardly used. Now as there is a cost of living
crisis and many previous taxpayers don't have a roof over their heads, where are the solutions?
Can't detention accommodation be used?

I object to use of PRE (masks) in the community, appropriate in operating theatre, not outdoors.

I object to the lockdowns and closing of state borders. I was unable to complete a long planned visit
to family early in 2020. I still have a credit owed me by an airline for the travel more than three years
later. COVID19 exposed how poor the protections are for travellers from those who would rip them
off. Personally, I was refunded accommodation and ferry expenses, it was the airlines and insurance
organisations who were difficult to deal with and held onto my money. Families and businesses
missed out on so much from the loss of face to face communication. I can't believe that people were
prevented from attending weddings and funerals. I was prevented from attending
birthday and I was to take his grandchild with me. Such events are what life is all about and my
whole family's life is the poorer for us missing this get together.

The implementation of curfews was a ridiculous attempt to control society. It was an invasion of all
Australians' human rights. Covid was an excuse for many incursions into many of our human rights.
I believe that any Australian who lives internationally who wants to come home should be able to at
any time. Locking Australian's out of their country was just wrong.

Whilst on border closures, which I object to, I heard of a pregnant woman in NSW who was denied
care from a Queensland Hospital due to border closures, forced to travel to a NSW hospital with
adverse health effects, https://7news.com.au/lifestyle/health-wellbeing/nsw-woman-denied-
queensland-border-exemption-for-emergencv-case-loses-unborn-twin-c-1272490 This should not
happen in our country.

I'm not happy with what happened in our schools during the COVID period. My own offspring now
have anxiety issues, I'm sure this is widespread. The fearmongering which went on by the Australian
mainstream media during Covid was reprehensible. Government organisations were complicit in
this. The wearing of masks severely impacted the education of our young. Learning at home
severely limited their education also. I witnessed my own child who had decided to knuckle down
and try hard for Year    | throw hands to the air in frustration and decide what's the point trying when
first term 2020 assessments were just not used at all. The stupid rules meant that I was unable to
attend the start of the ^^^^^^formal of one of my children, after B ears of school! I did not
get to have a dance with my young person to celebrate such a lengthy achievement.

I strongly object to the continued advertising to encourage people to keep up with their boosters. I
have been subjected to this through being a Carer and through^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^B These to
my private phone number and email address. It is an invasion of my privacy that this can occur. It is
wrong that the taxpayer funds pay for television advertisements in light of the current death data.

I also want to raise attention to the lies regarding the origin of COVID19. A current US inquiry has
found that officials were bribed by the CIA to change their findings regarding the likelihood of the
origin being a Wuhan laboratory.

I want to raise the issue of the PCR testing being used on a national scale not fit for such a purpose.
The cycles were run massively above the normal levels that the test was intended to be run at.

I object to the classifying of PCR +ve people as U701 such that if that person died, the diagnosis
would be that the person died OF Covid rather than WITH Covid, so we had the situation where a
person who died in a car crash was classified as having died of COVID. This just exacerbated the
fearmongering by pushing up the numbers of deaths from Covid.

I object to the short length of time and difficulty of submissions to this enquiry. I should be spending
time with my family. I should be putting the tree up for Christmas instead of writing a submission.

I want this inquiry to consider the massive overreach of Government into the personal lives of
Australians. Privacy was just swept aside. Human rights were swept aside. The mental health of
Australians has really suffered from the rules and regulations laid down upon our society. It should
not have been able to happen in this country.

It is my hope that because of this inquiry it can never happen again.

Thank you for taking my views into consideration.
