1. Introduce yourself, and explain a little about why your voice is important

Hi am a 36-year-old male who is the fatherJ
                                                                              child is ineligible for a
vaccination and is therefore at high risk of both the acute phase and long-term impacts of COVID-19.
Presently my wife^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ooks after our child, whilst I work full time. My partner
and I can mask and are also vaccinated (recent XBB vaccine) to reduce our risk from both the acute
phase and long-term impacts of the virus. If our child was to contract COVID-19, it is almost certain
that both my wife and I would also contract the virus. This exposes our entire family to a high risk of
serious health impacts. If my child is disabled from Long Covid (LC), my wife would have to remain
his carer and would not be able to return to the workforce^
HH^H'       my w'fe has                                                                  I would have
to drop out of the workforce (l^| earn in the second-highest income bracket) to look after both
her and our child. Presently our child cannot get vaccinated (he could if we lived in USA |
          | why not here?) and he is also too young to wear a mask. The simple act of accessing
healthcare at the moment risks exposing him to catching COVID-19, as no healthcare setting in
Australia currently requires persons to wear a mask, and if they ask people to wear one not
everyone wears one or does so properly.

In summary, the pandemic has not gone away. The current wave (Dec 2023) is indicative of that.
Millions of Australians are presently being infected by a biological safety level 3 airborne pathogen,
yet all levels of government are doing close to nothing about it - it is rarely even being talked about
in the media and data (thanks to governments stripping back testing and reporting) is largely at
guesswork levels. To continue doing nothing, as is the present norm, COVID-19 is not going away. A
recent Canadian government statistics report outlines how around 14% of people who catch COVID-
19 are left with LC. The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare state that the LC rate is around
5%-10%. The below graph plots both 5% and 14% LC rates, showing how as a person is infected
multiple times, their risk of having LC increases. Australians are most likely at around 1-3 infections
at present and are catching COVID-19 at least once per year. Thus, by the time we have all had 4-5
infections, 20% to 50% of the Australian population could have LC.

       100%



       90%



       80%




  <D
  W
       60%


  c
  o
       50%
  J2                                                                            -■-5%
   □
                                                                                -•-14%
       40%

  c
  a>
  u
       30%



       20%



       10%



        0%


                                Number of infections per person
The economic impacts of 20%-50% of the population being impacted by Long Covid would far
outweigh any economical impact of the previous lockdowns, or mask mandates, or purchasing
vaccines or providing adequate public health messaging, or for even doing SOMETHING to end this
pandemic. The German government recently (Dec 2023) stated this exact message. The Australian
Government should take head.



2. What are your suggestions and feedback about the role of the Federal Government, National
Cabinet, the Australian Health Protection Principal Committee (AHPPC) and/or other advisory bodies?

As I understand, the Therapeutic Goods Associate (TGA) is the federal government regulatory body
that has approved the COVID-19 vaccines for the Australian Public. It then appears that the
Australian Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (ATAGI) advises the federal government and
makes a recommendation as to when the vaccines can be made available to different groups within
the Australian Public. Throughout the course of the pandemic, it has appeared that the TGA has
promptly reviewed new vaccines and approved them, whilst ATAGI has delayed providing their
recommendations to the government of the day, and thus the government has then delayed
providing access to the latest vaccines for those who need it. The federal government has used
ATAGI as a scapegoat to blame them for delaying access to vaccines, when the TGA has already
approved the vaccine. Why does the government need to wait on approval from an advisory panel,
when the regulatory body has already given their approval? I believe that ATAGI is redundant in this
respect when related to pandemic response.

Throughout the pandemic the response from the federal and state governments, including national
cabinet and various bodies related to health have failed to provide a unified approach to managing
the COVID pandemic. The various levels of politics, be it Liberal or Labor, state or federal, have each
played off/blamed each other at various times. This haphazard approach has led to at times an
ineffective approach - one such example being the Ruby Princess where the state health
department blamed the federal border force department. Incorrect public health messages have
also been stated, such as: COVID is not airborne, children are not impacted by COVID, and the
pandemic is over. These messages are inherently dangerous to eliminating COVID and should be
retracted and corrected. I do note that the World Health Organisation now notes that COVID is
airborne, but has not come out and stated that they got it wrong at the start.

For future pandemics, there needs to be one single pandemic response body that advises the federal
and state governments and their health departments, border security etc. This single national
response body should be made up of experts from various industries such as health, police,
epidemiology, biosecurity, vaccinology, actuaries, doctors, nurses and representatives of business
and government.



3. What are your suggestions and feedback about key health response measures, e.g. COVID-19
vaccinations and treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective eguipment,
guarantine facilities, and public health messaging?

It appeared at the beginning of the pandemic that the Australian government did not have sufficient
emergency supplies stored, such as PRE and of pertinence to an airborne pathogen such as COVID-
19, N95/P2 masks. This was not OK.
The various Australian state governments set up temporary quarantine facilities in the early stages
of the pandemic, usually inside commercial hotels in major cities. These hotels were not suited to an
airborne pathogen as airborne covid particles were able to be spread from room to room and into
hallways through inappropriate air conditioning systems. This was not OK.

As stated earlier, a single national pandemic response body would be able to provide consistent,
clear and decisive public health messaging to the Australian public. As we did not have this, the
public health messaging through out the pandemic has been all over the shop. What one state chief
health officer said was juxtaposed by another. Incorrect facts were stated as discussed earlier. What
one doctor would say on a TV interview would be at odds with what the science and health
department was saying at the time. This was not OK.

And finally, regarding vaccines. Firstly the federal government appeared to be late negotiating deals
with Pfizer and Moderna, instead putting all their eggs into the Astra Zeneca basket. The AZ vaccine
then proved to have a rather high percentage of severe side effects. And now in recent months, the
federal government, as 'advised' by ATAGI, has only just released access to the new XBB monovalent
vaccines (in December) when these vaccines have been available in other countries (such as USA)
since September. There was no reason for such a delay as the Australian TGA approved these
vaccines at the start of October. This is not OK.

Furthermore, in the USA access to Paxlovid is far more readily available than in Australia. This also
needs to change. This is not OK



9. What are your suggestions and feedback for "improving Australia's preparedness for (current and)
future pandemics"?

A collection of Australian experts have created OzSAGE and are also involved in the international
John Snow Project. A wealth of well-researched and robustly debated independent expert advice is
available from both of these organisations and the Australian Government should take notice. As
suggested earlier, experts from these two organisations should be invited to the one national
pandemic response advisory agency.

One particular example                   is the Head of the Biosecurity Program at The Kirby
Institute UNSW and researched emerging infections, pandemics, vaccinology, bioterrorism, and
public health security. She has presented to agencies in the USA regarding pandemic response to
both natural and man-made pathogens. Why did the Australian Government not rely upon advice
from such an expert?

Denying listening to these experts will be at the detriment of Australia for the remainder of this
current and future pandemics.

It is also clear that future pandemics will most likely enter the human body either by the air (such as
covid) or droplets/blood. Therefore, the government should at all times maintain an sufficient and
appropriate stockpile of personal protective equipment (PPE) in preparedness for a pandemic. Such
PPE should include N95/P2 masks, gloves, sanitisers, gowns etc.
