To: The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel

Date: 15th December 2023

      Regarding the Ethics Conduct of the Australian Federal, State and Territory
                                    governments
My submission is simple.

The Nuremberg Code of ethics is straightforward. It says that a person accepting an
experimental treatment must do so voluntarily. Voluntarily consent is explained as follows:

          The voluntary consent of the human subject is absolutely essential. This means that
          the person involved should have legal capacity to give consent; should be situated
          as to be able to exercise free power of choice, without the intervention of any element
          of force, fraud, deceit, duress, over-reaching, or other ulterior form of constraint or
          coercion, ...

None of this was follo wed by our respecti ve go vernments. E veryone in the go vernment knows
it. People were threatened with punishment of all sorts if they refuse to comply with the CO VID
19 vaccine mandates. In my case, I was threatened to lose the job to which I committed all my
life. I studied and worked hard for my work to benefit Australia intellectually and financially.
None of that was important to Australia. The country and my state / territory was ready to sack
me if I did not comply with its coercive demands.

Australia has broken its own and international law, something that no researcher or business is
allowed to do. We go through strict ethics processes to ensure subjects’ safety. I am disgusted
and expect the worst is yet to come. I have no illusion that this submission will have any impact
on anything. But it leaves record so maybe one day it will be of value to someone.



Moreover, Pfeizer’s representative in the European Union Parliament admitted they had no
data regarding safety and transmission of their COVID 19 vaccine. So, Australia had no data
to back up its coercive politics. Nonetheless, even if Australia did have that data, applying
coercion is criminal.



Regards
