SK Khoo, Steffi




15th December 2023

The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
Parliament House
Canberra ACT
2600 Australia


Subject: Submissions and Evidence to the Covid 19 Response Inquiry



Dear Cabinet Members,

I am writing to submit my experiences and concerns for the handling of the Covid 19 Response
during the recent pandemic. My submission pertains to my personal experience with receiving
the Covid-19 vaccine under what I believe to be coercion to maintain my employment, which
resulted in an unlawful termination of my job and thus affecting my well-being. I hope that my
experience can contribute to the inquiry's focus on the government's response to the pandemic
and vaccination policies.

I am an Australian permanent resident having lived in Western Australia for the last 20 years. I
had prior 14 years of experience working in the pharmaceutical and medical industry, namelyH
                                                                    before settling down as a
frontline customer consultant in                             a company that required its
employees to be vaccinated against Covid-19 as a condition of employment. I rejected the
Covid-19 vaccine mandate and was unlawfully terminated on 16th May 2022 despite nearly 9
years of clean employment records. I refused to be subjected to coercion as I am aware of my
right to bodily autonomy and without an informed consent. Incidentally, when has any
corporate company plays "doctor"? My GP was not able to even provide the risk and benefit
analysis as it was an untested drug.

I am aware that medical professionals were threatened by AHPRA with loss of license should
they question the Government's Covid Vaccine narrative of "safe and effective."

My^^^^^lwas luckier than me as his company was hesitant to impose anything against
human rights and only subjected him to mandatory masking and PCR testing twice weekly,
which he had to do against his will to maintain the livelihood of the family as I am now
unemployed.

This has also resulted in significant financial burdens especially loss of income due to inability
to work. Now, my family is dependent on a single income earner and forces lifestyle changes.

The reasons to Non Masking could be found in this link from an industrial hygienist
recommendations to the CDC in USA.

                                            Page 1                Covidl9 Response Inq_151223
https://standupmichigan.corn/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/CDC-Response-Letter-February-
22-2022.pdf

Concerns and Recommendations:

Vaccine Mandates and Individual Rights:

 From my perspective, the compulsion to receive the Covid-19 vaccine under the threat of job
loss raises fundamental questions about the boundaries of individual rights. I firmly believe
that no person should be forced to take a medication or vaccine to retain their employment,
especially when proper testing and long-term studies are not unequivocally established. Each
person's unique biochemistry underscores the need for choice in the face of potential risks
associated with vaccination mandates. My call for the panel of the Covid 19 Response Inquiry
team to closely examine the legal and ethical dimensions of these mandates stems from a
broader concern for individual autonomy amid public health directives.

Evidences:
      • Vaccine S The Commonwealth Constitution s.51(xxiiiA) which prohibits civil

          conscription into medical and dental services.

      •          The Biosecurity Act 2015 (Cth) s.95 prohibits the use of force for vaccination.

      •   The Biosecurity Act 2015 (Cth) s.92 prohibits vaccination or treatment without an

          individual Biosecurity Control Order with stringent requirements.

      •   Article 6 of the UNESCO statement on Bioethics and Human Rights, Section 1, states
          "Any preventative diagnostic and therapeutic medical intervention is only to be
          carried out with the prior free and informed consent of the person concerned, based

          on adequate information. The consent should, where appropriate, be express and
          may be withdrawn by the person concerned at any time and for any reason, without
          disadvantage and without prejudice".

      •   Nuremberg Code, Article 1, states "The voluntary consent of the human subject is

          absolutely essential".

      •   The Siracusa Principles, adopted by the UN Economic and Social Council in 1984
          provide authoritative guidance on government responses that restrict human rights

          for reasons of public health or national emergency.        These Principles state that

          measures taken to protect the population that limit people's rights and freedoms

          must be lawful, necessary, and proportionate.

      •   Section 83.4 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth), which relates to interfering with

          political liberty states "Any person who, by violence or by threats or intimidation of



                                           Page 2               Covidl9 Response Inq_151223
            any kind, hinders or interferes with the free exercise or performance, by any other

            person of any political right or duty shall be guilty of an offence".



Protection of Employee Rights:

My concern about the impact of vaccine mandates on individual rights extends to
the workplace. The panel for the Covid 19 response Inquiry, in my view, should thoroughly
investigate the balance between public health measures, specifically vaccine mandates, and
the protection of employee rights. The potential coercion or disadvantage individuals may
face in the workplace due to vaccination requirements deserves careful examination. This
underscores the broader societal concerns about the consequences of vaccine mandates on
employment relationships and individual liberties, predominantly mental health and
depression.

Human Rights Commission reluctance to get involved and hand over the concerns to the Fair
Work Commission who put the onus of coercion to the Ministry of Health is very challenging
to the public like myself. Email correspondences with not much of assistance is a stressor for
myself. (Email evidence available upon request)

Safety and Monitoring:

 My experience prompts me to emphasize the vital importance of a robust system
for monitoring adverse reactions to Covid-19 vaccines. In suggesting the inclusion of an
investigation into vaccine safety measures in the Terms of Reference, I highlight the need for a
thorough review of the reporting and compensation system for individuals who, like myself, if
under duress could experience adverse reactions. While acknowledging that not everyone
faces such reactions, the potential risks underscore the necessity of a vigilant and
transparent monitoring system. The Covid 19 response team should delve into the
mechanisms in place for tracking vaccine safety, ensuring public confidence in the vaccination
process, with transparency and accountability.

Evidence:

The fact that TGA Australian DAEN (Database of Adverse Events Notifications), reported 496
events up to 11/4/2022 (at the point before my dismissal)is a health concern. This has not
undertaken the possibility of underreporting factor of approximately lOx.

In conclusion, the government is doing enormous damage to science and scientists by
allowing politics to dictate public health policy rather than actual science and censoring open
debates. Increasingly, and for good reason as we have illustrated, the public does not trust
the government and its science; this must change. Likewise, my experience with Covid-19
vaccination under coercion and the subsequent community division has been profoundly
challenging. I believe that my experience and those of others are just a few that must be
taken into account when shaping the Terms of Reference for the Covid-19 Response Inquiry.

I appreciate your consideration of my submission and hope that it contributes to a more
thorough and impartial inquiry into the government's response to the pandemic.

Yours sincerely, Khoo

                                              Page 3               Covidl9 Response Inq_151223
Page 4   Covidl9 Response Inq_151223
