RE: COVID-19 RESPONSE ENQUIRY




Dear Chair

Thank you for the opportunity to make a submission to the COVID-19 RESPONSE ENQUIRY

in Australia.



I am a Professor in the School of Population and Global Health at the University of Western
Australia. I write this submission as an individual academic. I respond to the following topics.



• Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and treatments, key
medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine facilities, and public health
messaging)

Decisions and associated evidence (not just "expert" opinion) around availability of vaccines and
anti-viral treatments (and similar decisions) needs to be very clear or else confusion feeds into
misinformation. For example, why did Australia focus on only one vaccine initially while other
countries had a choice? Why are other countries vaccinating from six month of age and Australia
isn't? Why are other countries encouraging broader use of ne monovalent vaccines and Australia
isn't? There have been mistakes made and these are not unexpected but very few have been
properly acknowledged.

The lack of focus on the evidence (from early stages) that SARS-CoV2 is airborne with a focus on
wiping surfaces and hand sanitising rather than ensuring clean air by having activities outdoors,
opening windows and HERA filters has been a significant problem.

Public health messaging has been a serious problem. Politicians (federal, state, local) have often
damaged public health messaging with conflicting and confusing information. An independent
rigorous CDC needs to be a high priority and it needs to provide leadership in critiquing the evidence.
We need to invest in public health training at all levels and ensuring broader understanding of public
health and current best evidence to those who need to make relevant decisions.



• Mechanisms to better target future responses to the needs of particular populations (including
across genders, age groups, socio-economic status, geographic location, people with disability, First
Nations peoples and communities and people from culturally and linguistically diverse
communities).

Critical reflection on the current pandemic and appropriate accountability are essential in preparing
for future pandemics. There is a need to plan in advance of the next pandemic - for example we
could: 1. continue to improve air quality in schools, settings where people are vulnerable (aged care,
medical settings) and improve green approaches to improving air quality (design, appropriate
sources of energy); 2. address misinformation much more strongly through an appropriate
multifaceted approach; and 3. ensure a focus on critical evaluation of evidence in advance of future
pandemics and have processes to evaluate evidence quickly when another pandemic does arise. A
lot of damage has been done - for example with poor and conflicting messaging, a lack of clear focus
on evidence and prevention which have undermined public health. There needs to be accountability
for those providing opinion and making decisions.

I hope this enquiry is deep enough and thorough enough to make a difference.




Professor Linda Slack-Smith

School of Population and Global Health

The University of Western Australia
