I am opposed to the removal of our freedoms by governments in the form of mask mandates,
vaccine mandates, lockdowns, and curfews, and that we deserve a real COVID inquiry that will look
into all aspects of how the 'pandemic' was handled.



       1.   Masks mandates did NOTHING to stop the spread of covid but caused psychological harm
            and educational impedance to children.

https://youtu.be/J3dnkbKoj4A?si=JUBhsjPNw5M-q2Vc



      2.    Vaccine mandates did NOTHING to stop the spread of covid but caused sickness, death,
            infertility, psychological harm and loss of livelihoods.

https://twitter.com/DrAseem Mal hotra/status/165C031510328692737?t=pZCxZviUv0oep
-SsUQ.eeZA&s=19


3.

10 myths told by Covid experts — now debunked

In the past few weeks, reports published by highly respected researchers have exposed a
truth about public health officials during Covid.




5 min read

February 28, 2 23 - 7:38PM

33 comments

     1:54

Lab leak likely origin of COVID-19

The Wall Street Journal reports that the US Department of Energy believes the virus
likely spread via a mishap at a Chinese laboratory.

View more related videos

In the past few weeks, a series of analyses published by highly respected researchers
have exposed a truth about public health officials during Covid:
Much of the time, they were wrong — the New York Postreports.

To be clear, public health officials were not wrong for making recommendations based
on what was known at the time. That's understandable. You go with the data you have.

No, they were wrong because they refused to change their directives in the face of new
evidence. When a study did not support their policies, they dismissed them and
censored opposing opinions.

At the same time, the Centre for Disease Control weaponised research itself but putting
out their own flawed studies in their own non-peer reviewed medical journal, MMWR.

In the final analysis, public health officials actively propagated misinformation that
ruined lives and forever damaged public trust in the medical profession. Here are 10
ways they misled us:
People wearing face masks in Queen Street Mall, Brisbane this month. Picture:



Misinformation #1: Natural immunity offers little protection compared to vaccinated
immunity
A Lancet study looked at 65 major studies in 19 countries on natural immunity. The
researchers concluded that natural immunity was at least as effective as the primary
Covid vaccine series.
In fact, the scientific data was there all along — from 160 studies, despite the findings of
these studies violating Facebook's "misinformation" policy.

Since the Athenian plague of 430 B.C., it has been observed that those who recovered
after infection were protected against severe disease if reinfected. That was also the
observation of nearly every practising physician during the first 18 months of the Covid
pandemic.

Most Americans were fired for not having the Covid vaccine already had antibodies that
effectively neutralised the virus, but they were antibodies that the government did not
recognise.

Misinformation #2: Masks prevent Covid transmission

Cochran Reviews are considered the most authoritative and independent assessment of
evidence in medicine. And one published last month by a highly-respected Oxford
research team found that masks had no significant impact on Covid transmission.

When asked about this definitive review, CDC Director Dr
downplayed it, arguing that it was flawed because it focused on randomised controlled
studies.
But that was the greatest strength of the review! Randomised studies are considered the
gold standard of medical evidence. If all the energy used by public health officials to
mask toddlers could have channelled to reduce child obesity by encouraging outdoor
activities, we would be better off.

01:01

Pink: My son's experience of Covid was 'very scary'

Pop star Pink has opened up about her son's experience of COVID-19, admitting it was
"very scary".

View more related videos
Misinformation #3: School closures reduce Covid transmission
The CDC ignored the European experience of keeping schools open, most without mask
mandates. Transmission rates were no different, evidenced by studies conducted Spain
and Sweden.

Misinformation #4: Myocarditis from the vaccine is less common than from the
infection

Public health officials downplayed concerns about vaccine-induced myocarditis — or
inflammation of the heart muscle. They cited poorly designed studies that under­
captured complication rates. A flurry of well-designed studies said the opposite. We now
know that myocarditis is six to 28-times more common after the Covid vaccine than after
the infection among 16- to 24-year-old males. Tens of thousands of children likely got
myocarditis, mostly subclinical, from a Covid vaccine they did not need because they
were entirely healthy or because they already had Covid.
A 15-year-old receives a first dose of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine at a mobile vaccination
clinic at the Weingart East Los Angeles YMCA in 2021. Picture: AFP

Misinformation #5: Young people benefit from a vaccine booster
Boosters reduced hospitalisation in older, high-risk Americans. But the evidence was
never there that they lower Covid mortality in young healthy people. That's probably
why the CDC chose not to publish their data on hospitalisation rates among boosted
Americans under 50, when they published the same rates for those over 50.

Ultimately, White House pressure to recommend boosters for all was so intense, that the
FDA's two top vaccine experts left the agency in protest, writing scathing articles on how
the data did not support boosters for young people.

Misinformation #6: Vaccine mandates increased vaccination rates

President Biden and other officials demanded unvaccinated workers, regardless of their
risk or natural immunity, be fired. They demanded that soldiers be dishonourably
discharged and nurses be laid off in the middle of a staffing crisis. The mandate was
based on the theory that vaccination reduced transmission rates — a notion later proven
to be false. But after the broad recognition that vaccination does not reduce
transmission, the mandates persisted, and still do to this day. A recent study from
George Mason University details how vaccine mandates in nine major U.S. cities had no
impact on vaccination rates. They also had no impact on Covid transmission rates.
A recent study from George Mason University details how vaccine mandates in nine
major US cities had no impact on vaccination rates. Picture: NCA NewsWire / Naomi
Jellicoe

Misinformation #7: Covid originating from the Wuhan Lab is a conspiracy theory
Google admitted to suppressing searches of "lab leak" during the pandemic. Dr^^^H
        head of the NIH, claimed (and still does) he didn't believe the virus came from a
lab. Ultimately, overwhelming circumstantial evidence points to a lab leak origin — the
same origin suggested to                       two very prominent virologists in a
January 2020 meeting he assembled at the beginning of the pandemic. According to
documents obtained by           of Fox News, they told Drs^^^and^^^^hat the
virus may have been manipulated and originated in the lab, but then suddenly changed
their tune in public comments days after meeting with the NIH officials. The virologists
were later awarded nearly $9 million frorr^^^J agency.
Misinformation #8: It was important to get the 2nd vaccine dose 3 or 4 weeks after the
1st dose

Data was clear in the Spring of 2021, just months after the vaccine rollout, that spacing
the vaccine out by three months reduces complications rates and increase immunity.
Spacing out vaccines would have also saved more lives when Americans were rationing a
limited vaccine supply at the height of the epidemic.

03:11

Covid vaccine associated with fewer heart attacks, strokes, and cardiovascular...

New research shows the COVID-19 vaccination is associated with fewer heart attacks,
strokes, and cardiovascular issues among people who... more

View more related videos

Misinformation #9: Data on the bivalent vaccine is "crystal clear"

Dr.^^^^^^famously said this, despite the bivalent vaccine being approved using data
from eight mice. To date, there has never been a randomised controlled trial of the
bivalent vaccine. In my opinion, the data are crystal clear that young people should not
get the bivalent vaccine. It would have also spared many children myocarditis

Misinformation #10: One in five people get long Covid

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention claims that 20% of Covid infections can
result in long Covid. But a U.K. study found that only 3% of Covid patients had residual
symptoms lasting 12 weeks. What explains the disparity?
It's often normal to experience mild fatigue or weakness for weeks after being sick and
inactive and not eating well. Calling these cases long Covid is the medicalisation of
ordinary life.

What's most amazing about all the misinformation conveyed by CDC and public health
officials, is that there has been no apologies for holding on to their recommendations for
so long after the data became apparent that they were dead wrong. Public health
officials said "you must" when the correct answer should have been "we're not sure."

Early on, in the absence of good data, public health officials chose a path of stern
paternalism. Today, they are in denial of a mountain of strong studies showing that they
were wrong.
At minimum, CDC should come clean and the FDA should add a warning label to Covid
vaccines, clearly stating what is now known. A mea culpa by those who led us astray
would be a first step to rebuilding trust.


More Coverage




                 Two dead in horror collision


 ■



                      ://w ww.news.com.au/

• Sign Up

• Log In

• Home

• Sign Upshow more

• About usshow more

• Help & Supportshow more
• Our News Networkshow more

• Our Partnersshow more

Our Apps

A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content
(including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content
more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy
and your choices, including how to opt-out.Sometimes our articles will try to help you
find the right product at the right price. We may receive payment from third parties for
publishing this content or when you make a purchase through the links on our sites.

• Privacy policy

• Relevant ads opt-out

• Cookie policy

• Terms of use

Nationwide News Pty Ltd © 2023. All times AEDT (GMT +11). Powered
by WordPress.com VIP
