                                                                                 15 December 2023




i am presenting my submission as an individual Australian citizen that was living in ■
during the time of the pandemic response. I was, and remain, employed full time and was able
to continue to work from home without interruption. However, the egregious and far-reaching
impacts of the response have had far reaching impacts on my family, friends and me. I
therefore want to contribute to improving future responses by addressing two specific points in
the terms of reference for the inquiry.

•   Key health response measures (for example across COVID-19 vaccinations and
    treatments, key medical supplies such as personal protective equipment, quarantine
    facilities, and public health messaging).
•   Governance including the role of the Commonwealth Government, responsibilities of state
    and territory governments, national governance mechanisms (such as National Cabinet,
    the National Coordination Mechanism and the Australian Health Protection Principal
    Committee) and advisory bodies supporting responses to COVID-19.

In my opinion, the response was obsessively reliant on a novel and untested medical
intervention, namely the COVID-19 vaccination. As master’s degree qualified expert in safety
and risk management, responding to an emergency must not neglect a thoughtful approach
and hastily implementing a novel and uncertain risk treatment, especially when the potential
risks may outweigh the benefits. In other words, a precautionary approach is essential,
necessitating a thorough and wholistic evaluation of the risks and benefits associated with any
decision, particularly where it is effectively mandated on the public. The assertion that
individuals were being given a "choice" between undergoing a novel and uncertain medical
treatment and employment suggests mandatory action or at the very least coercion. This
contravenes both the guidelines outlined in the Australian Immunisation Handbook and the
principles of the Nuremberg Code, representing a contemptuous abuse of human rights.

The Governments neglected to consider established conventional treatments that had proven
effective indications in other countries with higher exposure to the virus. Furthermore, the
response failed to take into account individual needs and outcomes, including the potential for
vaccine exemptions based on reasonable medical advice discussed between the medical
professional and the patient.

In my experience, the impacts have been not solely from the pandemic itself but were largely
influenced by the government's response to it. Job loss, discrimination, adverse reactions,
vaccine injuries, separation from loved ones, disruption to children’s development and
education and ongoing delays or denials of treatment were among the repercussions. Of
particular concern was the suppression of any health professional who dared to question the
government's public health response - a stance I believe was neither reasonable, evidence­
based, nor in line with the precautionary principle, as discussed in the article "The
Precautionary Principle and Medical Decision Making" published in the Journal of Medicine and
Philosophy
(https://www.researchgate.net/publication/51365486 The Precautionary Principle and Medi
cal Decision Making: June, 2004).
                                                                             15 December 2023




Two years on we are enduring the collateral economic, personal and social damage from policy
which appears to have delayed and exacerbated the health crisis. The mandating of
unjustifiable policy decisions undermined patient’s care using evidence based best practice,
and to first do no harm. Take for example two pandemic preparedness documents. The
Australian the Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza 2019 (the AHMPPI)
and the WHO Non-pharmaceutical public health measures for mitigating the risk and impact of
epidemic and pandemic influenza 2019. The AHMPPI outlined health care stakeholders have a
responsibility to provide input into decision making for and to communicate pandemic
information and key messages to the public such as myself and the quarantine and isolation
only of sick individuals for the purpose of isolation and treatment.

Thankyou for your consideration of this submission.
