January 10, 2024
Key stakeholders were largely ignored by government during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Please find 2 communications which were directed to decision makers during early 2021 (early
roll out) and in 2022 to provide evidence. None of this was written in hindsight. Decisions makers
continually reminded us that decisions were made with the best evidence at the time. I question
this.
Yours sincerely
Dr Bob Kass MBBS MRCP MScMCH DCH FAFPHM
Public Health Physician




March 2021

I am a public health physician who has worked at community level for over 30 years.

The current strategy behind the IB vaccine roll out undermines the delivery of primary care services
in Australia.

There is much to be proud of in Australia’s response to the COVID 19 pandemic. The opposite has
to be said for the start of the vaccine roll out. Surely a rethink is necessary! Australia has had a
publicly funded influenza program for more than 20 years. It has performed very well over many
years. Much of the IB target population would be accounted for within the annual flu program so
why has the Commonwealth Department of Health departed from this long-trusted model of the
past. This needs to be explained to the public.

The target group for influenza is also the “at risk” group for serious complications of COVID-19. It
would have made sense for general practice to lead the IB response entirely using the existing
State vaccine distribution outlets. General practitioners know their vulnerable people, particularly
those who are elderly or with major pre-existing medical issues. They see these people on a regular
basis, they hold their records, and they can prioritise their own individual roll out. They would have
a good understanding of their community, their degree of compliance, the level of IT literacy and
whether there are pockets of vaccine hesitant individuals within their area. This is good primary care
and what we should expect in Australia.

I believe this is what we have seen with the COVID-19 pandemic response in NSW - the gold
standard community public health response. Public health in NSW is very much decentralized with
public health units across the state. These public health units know their communities. We observed
this with the Northern Beaches outbreak where 180,000 people were severely affected rather than
8.5 million people. This is targeted public health and should also apply to the vaccine roll-out with
General Practice taking the lead role.

I have had discussions with a number of medical practices who elected not to participate in the
original “Expression of Interest” in January. Many of these practices would be seen as “traditional
general practice”. Highly respected, always fully booked, know their community. So why did they not
put up their hands in the first place and why are they now locked out of playing a role when the
goal posts have been moved so dramatically! I believe attempts to belatedly join have been met
with complete rejection by the Adelaide PHN who have sited Commonwealth DOH instructions.

These are intriguing questions which need to be addressed by both the State and Commonwealth
Health Departments. I believe the strategy must be revisited as soon as possible. I would strongly
recommend we move to the model used for our annual influenza program. The “laggards are
setting the pace” is also relevant here in Australia.

Dr Bob Kass
MBBS MRCP MSc MCH DCH FAFPHM
Public Health Physician
2022


Dear Minister,
There is currently a good deal of discussion over Australia’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic,
particularly the vaccine rollout.
In March 2021 I communicated with the Commonwealth Chief Medical Officer, Paul Kelly and also
with South Australia’s Chief Medical Officer on the design of the vaccine roll out (letter provided).
It was very evident by as early as mid to late 2020 older people were more likely to die from COVID-
19. (Figure 1).
 I was very concerned that the proposed structure did not cater for the most vulnerable members
of the community. We already had a well-tested program for the delivery of annual influenza vaccine
and I was arguing that this model should be adopted for COVID-19.
Unfortunately, this was not the case and it appeared both the Commonwealth and State
Governments had very different agendas.       There was an undersupply of vaccines to general
practice by the Commonwealth and a focus by the State Government on vaccine hubs. Older
Australians (those most vulnerable) did not identify with the hubs, preferring to use their general
practices which were starved of vaccines. Nursing staff was also hard to recruit with the State
Government paying higher hourly rates.
From April 2021 I had the privilege of working with a southern suburbs general practice to deliver
COVID vaccines to their clientele. The practice did not take up the first Expression of Interest (EOI)
as they rightly believed they would be given very little vaccine. They did, however, take up the
second offer in late May.
The timing of the influenza program starting in March 2021 gave us an opportunity to compare
uptake rates for both influenza and COVID over the same period. We monitored the Australian
Immunisation Record at the same time. We followed over 800 people over 80 years. It was very
evident that the coverage for COVID-19 dramatically improved once the general practice
commenced their vaccine program. We were also pleased to note a more than 90% coverage for
influenza for both males and females in just over 2 months. (Figure 2). It took quite a lot longer to
achieve the same with COVID program, but it was still achieved within 4 months.
I believe the rollout was driven more by politics than good public health policy. This was very
frustrating from the perspective of a public health physician NOT employed within the public health
system.
If we had been able to provide the ASTRAZENECA vaccine to those most vulnerable (>65 years) we
would have circumvented the social media scare campaign in the middle of the year. We would
have been able to achieve high rates of coverage within a 2-3 month period in an age group which
was very unlikely to have a problem. Unfortunately, there was a great deal of hesitancy as a result
of the delay, and I would have counselled a few hundred people. I can only remember 1 person
who preferred to wait for the Pfizer and much of the practice’s success was due to the individual’s
trust in the practice.
In 2022 we sampled 1 in 6 females and 1 in 3 males from our original cohort to determine uptakes
for Dose 3 and 4. At no stage did we refer to dose 3 as a booster, preferring to use the phrase “3
dose course”. I feel this helped a great deal in us achieving an uptake of over 85%. The dose 4
uptake is also encouraging at over 70%.
I believe primary care, including pharmacy remains the key to any successful pandemic response
in the future. Hopefully we may see a more common-sense approach in the future. Primary care
medicine is struggling, and we need the Commonwealth and States to fully investigate the funding
issues currently. A properly funded primary care system may also help with issues of ambulance
ramping.


Dr Bob Kass
MBBS MRCP MSc MCH DCH FAFPHM
Public Health Physician

Figure 1
THE AFFECT OF AGE ON MORTALITY WITH COVID-19
A META ANALYSIS WITH 611,583
Clara Bonanad et al
JAMDA 21 (2020) 915-1918

                                                                                                 29,6




                                                                                                141745




      100000



                                      84476                        85358            85113




               46598




               <29          30-39     40-49         50-59          60-69            70-79        >80

                                      Number of subjects      Mortality (%)




Figure 2
COVID AND INFLUENZA VACCINATIONS
MARCH TO OCTOBER 2021 (MALES AND FEMALES AGED 80 +)


 q
.n
 cu
 i°o


 o
sP
O'
 cu
 CD 80
 CU
 c
 o (fi
     ■O
    66
 E £
 E
"O
 cu40
 CD
 C
 o
 Q
 CU
 >20
 o
 CD
CU
CC
         0
         Jan/21          Feb/21      Apr/21          Jun/21                Jul/21           Sep/21       Oct/21    Dec/21
                                                            Month, 2021
                       % of females COVID vx               % female FLU vx                   % of males COVID vx


COVID DOSE 3

                             31 March 2022
                                 DOSE 3                            SAMPLE                        PERCENTAGE
 FEMALE                            59                                69                             85.5
 MALE                              64                                71                              90.1
