                    Submission to the < OV II>-19 Response Inquiry
                         To the Members of the Inilepenilent Panel,

lam writing this submission to voice concerns over certain aspects ofAustralia’s response to
the ('OVID-19 pandemic. While I recognise the importance of the Inquiry’s goal to improve
      pandemic preparedness, there are critical areas that require thorough scrutiny.


                        Concerns Over S/xcific Pandentic Measures
   Mask and Vaccine Mandates: The implementation of mask and vaccine mandates had
   significant impacts on individual freedoms and social dynamics. These measures, often
       invasive, warrant a detailed review to assess their necessity, effectiveness, and
                                       proportionality.
 Lockdowns and Curfews: The economic, social, and psychological impacts of lockdowns
and curfews have been profound. An evaluation of these measures is essential to understand,
  their long-term effects on Australian society and whether they were the most appropriate
                                           response.
 Communication Strategies: It is quite clear that there was an unwarranted use offear in
 public health messaging. It's important to analyse whether such communication strategies
  were effective or whether they contributed to unnecessary panic and distress among the
                                            public.
                 Concerns Over the Cirntposition and Scope of the Incimry
   Panel Composition: The appointment ofInquiry panel members who have previously
expressed supportfor certain pandemic measures raises questions about the objectivity and
 impartiality of the Inquiry. Panel members who have expressed support for such measures
                                  should recuse themselves.
   Exclusion of Unilateral State and Territory Government Decisions: One off the most
 significant omissions in the Inquiry’s scope is the exclusion of actions taken unilaterally by
 state and territory governments. These decisions, including state-imposed, lockdowns and
 border controls, were pivotal to the nation's pandemic response and should be included in
                                          the Inquiry.
                           The. Need for a Cffm.prehe.nsive lleview

   While the Terms off Reference for the Inquiry are extensive, it is crucial that the above­
  mentioned areas are not overlooked. A truly comprehensive review should encompass all
 aspects of the government's response, including those currently outside the Inquiry's scope.


                                          Conclusion
This submission represents a collective call for a more inclusive and thorough investigation
into Australia's COVID-19 response. It also urges for freedom and liberty to not ever be cast
aside with fearmongering as it was by A ustralian go vernmen ts during the pandemic. We urge
     the Inquiry to consider these points to ensure transparency, accountability, and the
                      safeguarding ofAustralian values and liberties.
