To whom it may concern:

My name is Janet. I trained and qualified as a registered nurse in the UK in 1980 to 1983.

I immigrated to Australia in 1984 and have since become an Australian citizen.

I have worked in Australia as a registered nurse since 1985 in various major hospitals and in community health
around Australia and so I have had at least 36 years of a broad range experience working as a registered nurse.

My last job as a registered nurse was working as a community registered nurse for Silverchain/RDNS (Royal District
Nursing Service) in South Australia, and I worked for this company from 2013 to 2021.

I was terminated from this establishment in May 2022 as declined an experimental injection in order to keep my job.

Everything I had been taught up until this point in nursing in regards to medicine was about 'Evidence based
medicine/ medicine that had been tested thoroughly before it was released on the market. But suddenly we were
being told to take these experimental vaccines or lose our job. We had no idea of the short or long term effects. Also
at this time despite the hype and fear messages on main stream media, research was saying that 99.9% of healthy
people recover well after covid.

The covid 19 vaccines are only provisionally approved in Australia by the TGA. The approval process can take
between 5 to 10 years. So we still do not have long term data to make an informed and enlightened decision

After thorough research I listened to my own common sense, bodily autonomy and intuition and made the decision
to not receive this experiment.

I was aware that losing my job would affect me financially but I had full conviction that I was doing the right thing,
and still do.

I was terminated from my job at aged 60 and at least due to my age I was able to access all my superannuation to
help me with my mortgage payments. Unfortunately this means I will have no superannuation to rely on in
retirement and I have used a substantial amount of my superannuation to survive.

 I have however, been one of the lucky ones in this situation that has effected many others in a terrible way such as
losing their businesses, homes, marriages and even their life.

It has been unlawful to force someone to have an experimental medication in order to keep their career/job,
especially when there is no informed consent. The Nuremberg code outlaws forced medical procedures which
include mandatory vaccinations.

Australia is a signatory to the International covenant on civil and political rights which states that no one shall be
subjected without his free consent to medical or scientific experimentation.

The Australian Immunization Handbook states "Valid consent must be obtained from patients prior to any
vaccination"

Alex Antic senator of South Australia has quoted "for consent to be legally valid vaccines must be given voluntarily in
the absence of undue pressure, coercion or manipulation."

So now I am writing to you, The Australian human Rights commission, under basic human rights what can I do to
seek remedy or recourse from this situation?

Kind regards

Janet Wilson RN
