Dear Sir/ Madam

REQUEST FOR A ROYAL COMMISSION INTO THE HANDLING OF THE RESPONSE OF COVID 19.

Please accept this letter as a request for a Royal Commission to be held into the running of the response
to Covid 19 over the past few years.

The acting governments over the course of the last few years have responded in a way that is both illegal
and inhumane to every Australian. I sincerely request that the handling of the pandemic be investigated.

Firstly,   I for one would like the response to Covid investigated as to how a government body was able to
uphold lockdowns and forced vaccination to keep peoples jobs or to attend restaurants or movies etc
even after an enquiry many years ago in the Nuremberg trials, where it was found this totalitarian
response was both illegal and inhumane.

The Royal Commission needs to look at corrupt vaccine procurement, secret contracts that were
purposely kept for the people of Australia (even after freedom of information requests were sent), mask
mandates (with no scientific proof that they stopped transmission, however there was lots of
information backed by science that showed how dangerous they were after having them on for only a
couple of minutes), lock downs (including family members not being able to see each other and say final
farewells), vaccine mandates (for work, travel and seeing and spending time with loved ones), official
misinformation (there was so many blocks of the actual truth of the dangers of the covid 19 vaccines put
in place, many people had the Covid-19 vaccine under mis representation via doctors, media and
government, lies in the media regarding the ability of vaccines to block transmission, vaccine injuries
(the actual number of people suffering from injured directly linked to these vaccines - rates of cancers,
heart decline, miscarriages, pregnancy number decline, neurological health problems have all
dramatically increased but this is not talked about and purposely been hidden and mislead by media
censorship, silencing of doctors and the fact that AHPRA and ATAGI have silenced and threatened their
members with doing their job properly (Doctors having to follow the narrative rather than accessing
their patients and treating accordingly with what they have been trained to and people who have
suffered from a reaction from a Covid-19 vacinne and the poor treatment and the feeling of being
isolated due to lack of help and transparency for compensation for doing what was asked of them in the
first place.




My husband and I both were stood down from our jobs due to us not taking the experimental Covid-19
vaccination. I lost 6 months of pay until i was allowed back to work and my husband (our main income
provider for our family) lost his job completely. We have children and to keep our home have had to start
from scratch and start a business overnight (so to speak) with little planning and alot of worry). We are
still struggling financially to keep our home and pay bills and buy food due to the never ending price
hikes and the fact that we have had to start from scratch due to having no savings left as we needed to
use everything we had to get through the last 2 years.

The people of Australia have suffered greatly under the last government's and current government. We
need to have a Royal Commission into the handling of the pandemic due to the above mentioned
reasons.
