To The COVID-19 Response Inquiry Panel,

Firstly, thank you for conducting such an important inquiry into what was the greatest global event
of a lifetime. May I strongly state that the given time for public consultation is significantly lacking
and to have the deadline before the busy Christmas time is at best inconvenient but at worst,
feels like a sabotaged effort to lower feedback received. I would therefore ask that you permit a
window of time in early 2024 for submissions and encourage the Australian people to provide
their feedback. After all, there was no issue communicating the need to be vaccinated throughout
the pandemic, so it shouldn’t be too hard to comunicate and promote evaluation, in the name of
science.

I am an Australian citizen, originally a registered nurse from the Uk, and now a tax-paying
permanently employed citizen of this great country. I am well educated and have been highly
trained in emergency nursing care, with a passion for research.

Due to the poor timing of the inquiry deadline I am unable to fully divulge the acquired evidence
that I believe useful for its purpose, nevertheless, I’ll provide a brief overview of the issues that
range from troubling to criminal. Please contact me for further information if required.

The Australian pandemic respinse was based on a poorly classified and researched model,
inadequate and highly inaccurate tests, and advice from no elected NGO’s rather than the
scientists, epidemiologists, immunologists, virologists, hospital physicians and on the ground
highly trained health professionals that are IN our country.

Many of the professionals worldwide that voiced differing opinions to the adopted WHO ‘advice’
were silenced, ridiculed and cast aside rather than invited to the table to scientifically debate the
proper course of action for each country, including our own beloved Australia.

Legally, lines were crossed by government, mainly State governments and law enforcement in the
name of protection of people. There were clear breaches of human rights during the peak of the
pandemic where people’s lives were crushed - hardly protective. This is an ongoing issue that will
continue to inform us all and I pray that this inquiry takes heed of the laws broken and the
damage done to our country.

Lastly, there is a mountain of evidence worldwide that shows how certain medications have been
beneficial for Covid, how masks harmed more than they did good, how lockdowns made us suffer
in school, work, mental health, financial with flow on to the economy, and how the vaccinations
were not the beneficial treatment or preventative that was hoped for. To me, it is blindingly
obvious that the Australian response to the Covid 19 pandemic was a disaster, and I am sorry to
say it. Where was the public health encouraging healthy food, fresh vegetables, sunshine (vitamin
D), low stress, exercise? Where was the financial subsidy for everyone to access fresh food? Or to
farmers to produce more?

For the love of this country, or whatever god you pray to, please never lock us down, never
mandate vaccinations or forcibly exclude citizens from society for making an individual health
choice, never override our human rights, never again ignore your own people. Instead, use this
great nation to come together to make a strong informed decision on how we should traverse
difficult situations or future pandemics,like other sovereign nations managed in the world.

Don’t be led, instead lead.

Thank you for your time.
