                 14 December 2023

Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID enquiry

I wish to address a number of the terms of reference:

    1.        Governance etc.
         If the states were part of the national cabinet which seemed to act with a lot of cohesion and
         agreement, then there probably weren't many unilateral decisions taken by the states.
         Hence their actions and decisions could well be withing the scope of this enquiry.

         AHPRA was active in pursuing doctors who spoke contrary to the common narrative. I think
         that was an overreach. Doctors should be able to diagnose and treat according to their
         ability without being restricted by a directive.

   2.         Key Health Response Measures
         Will there be a revelation of the details of the contracts for supply of vaccines that the
         government entered into. These were large contracts for drugs that had not been tested for
         some basic functionality (pregnant women, prevention of transmission) yet were presented
         as the sole valid clinical response to the virus. We need openness, not protection by
         "commercial in confidence" clauses. The enquiry could seek to compare what is known
         about vaccine injuries now in comparison to what was told to the government's purchasing
         departments initially.

         There was a quick jump to lockdowns as a response. There were alternatives. The enquiry
         could examine what impacts early treatments at home (e.g. Vitamin D, Vitamin C), medical
         intervention with Ivermectin and rest might have had.

   3.         International Policies
         The enquiry should consider whether Australia's ability to respond to future pandemics will
         be limited by the about-to-be revised WHO International Health Regulations. There is no
         need for an enquiry when much of our response in future might be dictated by WHO.

   4.        Support for Businesses
         There were conscious decisions made about what businesses to support, through the
         "essential services" exemptions. There needs to be openness here too. The enquiry should
         examine why brothels could trade but churches were restricted severely.
