My story - My name is Fiona and I am                         I attended        of University and then
worked                                     I worked hard and I did well in my career. For the last V
      I was employed in a specialised/niche role and was totally dedicated                   I worked
with and the service we were providing. When the covid 19 vaccines were made mandatory my
research showed that it may be harmful for me given my own medical history. I did not have the
covid 19 vaccine and I lost my career. I had taken a stand for my own health but also to stand up for
public health in what was a clear breach of human rights and medical ethics. The mandates were
not justified by the science because they did not stop a person getting covid or transmitting covid
and they were definitely not risk free.

Evidence for all of the above is available on request.

The damage to me is obviously financial but it has also devastating to lose the career I loved. To
have been treated the way that I was treated by my employer and my government was terrible. And
it was never justified by the science. I am still suffering and do not know what the future holds. I
had just finished building my house before I lost my job. To make some money I have
        and                                                               I cannot return to my job in
       ^■as they have given it to someone eta

There are so many stories like mine. People who's lives have been severely affected by government
policies. We need a royal commission, a thorough investigation into these unjustified policies so
that it can never happen again.

But even more serious than livelihoods lost is the lives that have been ruined by vaccine injury.
These products were mandated on the population with the threat on their livelihood. Many people
were aware that these products were not fully safety tested. They knew they themselves were not
at high risk from covid and they knew the vaccines did not stop transmission. At the time of the
mandates the vaccines were still in a trial phase. Yet our government made the population choose
between their livelihood and their future health. Many were coerced into it or risk being unable to
provide shelter and food for their children. Our government policies did this. Many are now injured
and some have died.

Lockdowns - The science around lockdowns demonstrates that they cause more harm than good.
Economic and psychological harms is evident and ongoing in Australia today.

Mask mandates - The science clearly shows that masks do not prevent transmission. The science has
been published including a Cochrane review. It is not a difficult concept to grasp. The virus is
airborne. You breath air in and out through your mask. The virus being 10000 times smaller than a
strand of hair. Masks don't stop someone getting a virus. In healthcare we call the masks 'splash
masks' they stop blood droplets, sneeze droplets etc, not an airborne virus. But there are harms
that come from wearing a mask. It does allow the growth of bacteria and fungus when the mask
gets moist that then can be breathed into a persons lungs causing illness. Masks also interfere with
gas exchange ie oxygen in/carbon dioxide out. Healthy people should never wear masks. Children
have had speech development delays when masks were introduced because they cannot see a
mouth move to then mimic the action to learn to speak. Children also learn social interaction by
seeing a persons facial expressions. Children have been harmed by mask mandates.

We have seen a suppression of freedom of speech via the government and a biased media. Many of
the mistakes made by the government during the covid pandemic could have been avoided if they
had listened to a wide range of opinions by experts. Instead any opposing view to government
policies was censored and vilified and labelled as 'misinformation' even if it was based on the
highest level of science, voiced by a highly respected scientist and sometimes even if it was using the
governments own data.

We have had medical professions prevented from voicing any opposition to harmful government
policies. This via AHPRA informing medical staff by letter that they could be investigated if they
voiced opinion contrary to government guidelines. I have met doctors who were too afraid to report
injuries they were sure were related to the covid 19 vaccines because they may themselves then be
investigated and lose their livelihoods.

The Australian government did have a pandemic management plan that seemed based on good
science. It was the 2019 Australian Health Management Plan for Pandemic Influenza. Why, during
the Covid 19 pandemic did the Australian government make policies that went against the advice in
this plan?

What we have witnessed in Australia in the past 3.5 years is a failure of government. We needed
policies that would have protected the vulnerable (eg the elderly) while allowing the rest of the
Australian community who were not at risk form covid 19 to continue with their lives, livelihoods
and education. We needed a response that respected human rights and was consistent with
medical ethics. We needed conversations and debate amongst independent experts who could then
advise government on pandemic policy. Instead we had overreach of government who were
following poor quality and biased science. We had censorship of opposing views and we had
government leaders name calling and vilifying respectable experts who spoke up for public health
and human rights with the backing of solid science. We have had government policies that have
caused incredible harm to the Australian people.

It has also harmed the trust that the Australian people have in government and the medical
community.

We need a full, thorough and completely independent inquiry. One that is able to take learnings
from the enormous errors made. We need a Royal Commission.
