My name is Elizabeth Watson, and I am 64 and a care

When the Covid
Regional Library
NSW.

                         staff enforced all the ever-changing rules instigated by the
Government: distancing, mask wearing, hand sanitizing, sanitizing computer
stations and desks used by the public, quarantining returned items, and eventually,
mandatory vaccination.

As an employee of the library I enforced and followed the rules, but because of my
Anaphylaxis, I had concerns about getting the vaccination and decided against it.
Other members of staff that I worked with considered me to be a threat to their
health because of my refusal to be vaccinated, and were happy to express their
opinion of my personal decision to me.

When lockdowns were instigated, I was then locked out of the library, businesses,
and shops, and could only go to the local supermarket for whatever basic food items
that I could buy - as long as I wore a mask. I was discriminated against because
vaccinated people could freely go into any shop or store they chose to unmasked.
Vaccinated people were also allowed to travel freely to wherever they wanted to go,
and were able to visit vaccinated relatives and friends. I was not allowed to leave my
own home, and could go no further than the end of my street, and I could not see
any friends or relatives. Basically, I was put in jail by my own Government.

I made an appointment to see my local doctor to discuss my health concerns, and
was told that he would not oive me an exemotion to the vaccination. He asked about




The Government began their misinformation campaign by telling us that the Covid
vaccine would immunise us against the virus. Then their story changed to telling us
that the vaccine would help us to fight the virus. Then that narrative changed as well
to telling us that as long as we kept getting vaccinated we’d stand a better chance of
surviving the virus. Now Pfizer and other vaccine companies are admitting that the
vaccines were never going to stop the virus, but rather it is here to stay. There was
no actual evidence that mandatory vaccination, nor mandatory mask wearing, nor
lockdowns did anything at all to stop the spread of the virus. It certainly helped the
spread of mental illness, discrimination, loss of compassion for fellow human beings,
and paranoia.

After still being in lockdown for months, while vaccinated employees returned to
work, I was finally told by            City Council, (who are the oversight council for the
library), that I           my job if I refused to vaccinate. So after almost 13 years
with the library,          City Council fired me, effectively taking away my life and
ending my friendships with the people I worked with.
Medical practitioners not being paid off by the WHO and the pharmaceutical
companies tried to let everyone know that they were being lied to, but they were
brutally suppressed and discredited in order to allow the Government to enforce their
propaganda and scare mongering campaign through the media’s dissemination of
their lies.

Unbelievably the Government are still promulgating that lie, and are still being
supported by the media, pharmaceutical companies, and medical practitioners who
are refusing to admit the actual statistics and repercussions of the vaccine, while
holding out their hands for their next gratuity from the WHO and their
                               The scare mongering is a constant background to our
daily lives, with headlines berating us about the next pandemic, a worse Covid,
deadly measles, mosquitoes, microbes, encephalitis, and how will we cope without
the W H O to lead us into slavery.

Do we need a Royal Commission into the inhuman, illegal, discriminatory lies that
Federal and State Governments forced on us? Yes we do.

Do we want the Federal and State Governments to stop lying to us about the real
statistics of Covid 19 and the damage done to thousands of peoples lives through
forced mandatory vaccinations, and the fact that none of the measures forced upon
the people of Australia were necessary? Yes we do.

Do we want the W H O to be responsible for taking our personal health decisions
away from us entirely and locking us into quarantine^^^^^^^Jcamps where we
have no rights over whether we live or die, or what experimentation is carried out on
us - all with the backing of our own Government? No we do not. Who would.

I no longer have a job, and my life is now being a carer^^^^^^Hand looking after
our house. My former workmates are now no more than acquaintances who I rarely
see and no longer talk to. I feel                           still in a kind of ‘soft’ lockdown,
as                 doesn’t like to leave the house, and I find myself reluctant to do so as
well. The impact of the Covid 19 pandemic with its physical, mental, and emotional
fallout is still, to an extent, traumatising us all today. It has destroyed our trust in the
medical profession, the media, and in the governing politicians who have proven that
they are not here to help the people of Australia, but to help themselves gain a place
at the graft and corruption trough through any means they can devise.

A Royal Commission into the complete mismanagement of the pandemic should
have already been undertaken.
