Covid-19 Response Enquiry

Submission by Michael and^^J Schultz - sent 15 December 2023

Governance

  1. All governments in Australia were guilty of violating the Nuremburg Code which
     forbids mandated medical treatment, (see file Para 1 of the Nuremburg Code
     states the voluntary consent of the human subject is essential).
  2. State Governments under each of their respective Constitutions brought
     communication chaos to the country. Victoria particularly led a brutal onslaught
     on civilians who chose to not be vaccinated by the mRNA vaccine. Such
     brutality was copied by other states and territories e.g. ACT Police used LRAD
     and Vic Police used rubber bullets).

Key Health Responses

  3. TGA only gave provisional approval to use mRNA vaccines (see file
     Vaccinated v Unvaccinated incl^^^^^^^Covax and file Australian
     Government of health data file).
  4. Alternative treatment of covid was not accepted by TGA (see file Vaccinated v
     Unvaccinated incl             Covax and file Department of Health Vic.).
  5. State Health Departments did not bring unified regulations bringing death,
     illness, and confusion to residents (citizens and visitors) in Australia.

Broader health supports for people

   5. Mandated vaccinations to comply were imposed and/or coerced on employers
      and organisations with penalties of non-compliance (see file Australian
      Government of health data).

   6. Compulsory wearing of Masks proved ineffectual, (see file Australian
      Government of health data).

Support for industry and businesses

   7. Small Business suffered financially, and owners suffered mentally, and are still
      suffering from the governments (state and federal) coerced mandated vaccine
      regulations and wearing of masks.

Future Responses

      1.          Do not use police to impose health laws.
      2. Never again bring Australia into global shame by violating the Nuremburg
           Code and/or finding bureaucratic ways of getting around it.
      3. Do not allow despots such as the then Premier of Victoria, and then other
           state premiers, to legislate and then embrace power to the detriment of
           citizens of Australia.

Page 1 of 2
Summary

      Covid proved through state regulations that we are not one Australia. The
      well-known argument put up by citizens and rejected by politicians and
      bureaucrats, is to remove State Governments to ensure country wide
      regulations and protocols.

  Michael and^^^Schultz




Page 2 of 2
