Submission to the Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

By: COVID Statistics and Information WA


Preamble

We are a community of COVID-cautious health consumers and service providers with a wealth of
experience navigating the COVID pandemic in Western Australia. We believe that the management
of the pandemic after the first shock of the 2020/2021 waves fell well below public health standards
which otherwise apply to many a viral epidemic or intervention, and certainly should apply to one as
significant as the COVID pandemic.

Since 2021, our group in WA has compiled statistical data on local COVID trends, using
government reports, and circulated emergent scientific research on all aspects of COVID. Our
group includes over 1,200 individuals who live in WA. Many of us have lived experience of severe
infections, Long COVID, and general post-infection complications. Some of us care for people with
disability or work in the health sector and with vulnerable people. But we all speak with knowledge
and informed authority on these matters.

The SARS-CoV-2019 virus arrived in 2020 to find Australia grossly unprepared for a major
pandemic, despite many years of warnings at the global and national levels. The vast majority of the
community approved of most measures introduced by governments in the first year of the
pandemic, as we accepted that public health measures were needed to limit the transmission of the
virus, save many lives, and prevent long-term structural damage to the health system. While there
were errors of judgement and deficits in competence, such as in delaying the lockdowns and border
closures, vaccination delays, and the lack of an adequate national PRE stockpile, for example, most
of the community agreed with the response of the National Cabinet to support workers, income
support recipients, and otherwise vulnerable groups, to limit people movement, and institute
emergency periods at jurisdictional level.

In late 2021 (early 2022 in WA) we witnessed the overeager promotion of ‘living with COVID’ and
ill-considered (and somewhat contradictory) pronouncements that the COVID pandemic was ‘over’.
While Western Australia had one of the highest vaccination rates in the world, we also know that -
as is clear from scientific research into the transmission of the virus, its never-ending mutations and
the emergence of ever more immune-evasive variants - this resulted in untold damage and death in
this state. Increasingly, scientific researchers became concerned about the effect of unimpeded
transmission on the rate of evolution of COVID, lack of measures to clean air in public spaces and
wearing of appropriate respirators, and long-term health impacts manifesting, for example, in rising
numbers of people with Long COVID.

Since early 2022, governments have abandoned all protections - not just for vulnerable groups but
indeed everyone including the elderly in aged care and the ill in hospitals. We have seen our loved
ones die and fall gravely ill. Many of us have been forced into involuntary lockdown as we are
clinically too vulnerable to risk ‘living with COVID’ when we know it may mean ‘death from COVID’
or ‘living with Long COVID’. Despite increasing media coverage of all the significant consequences
of ‘living with COVID’, we have been disappointed by an indifferent, if not outright hostile response
to our concerns from a government administration that had been promising a different path only 18
months earlier in the federal state election.


Rationale for this submission

Scientific evidence is reaching a consensus on a range of issues that should have been met with a
very different response from public health and political leaders. At the moment, we know, for
example:
    • That COVID is mainly airborne and transmission prevention requires protective measures
        such as: clean air, wearing of adequate respirators such as N95 or above, and mandatory
        testing and isolation of cases (with relevant supports provided for the workforce) and
        education facilities.
    • That these protections work well to prevent transmission and should be mandated in health,
        clinical, disability, education and aged care settings.
    • That children are just as vulnerable to COVID as adults and that there is no scientific
        rationale not to vaccinate them as much as adults, as is the case in the US for instance.
    • That at least a third of the Australian adult population has a ‘vulnerability’ such as a chronic
        illness that makes this group more at risk of further complications and Long COVID.
    • That COVID, far from being just a respiratory illness, potentially may impact on every single
        organ in the body, including heart, brain, liver, kidneys, and lungs due to causing vasculitis,
        which can result in serious consequences and make people more prone to strokes, heart
        disease, and a range of autoimmune disorders. The virus kills T cells which are the mainstay
        block of immune resistance to viral and bacterial infections, including COVID itself.
    • That prevalence of reinfection by ever increasing numbers of new strains means ‘hybrid
        immunity’ is a scientific myth.
    • That COVID infections can have disastrous impacts on people with disability or clinical
        vulnerability: this is a diverse group with different needs which has so far been severely
        sidelined in public discourse around COVID. See for example, the position statement by
        People with Disability Australia.
    • That health systems are struggling to meet the demand for health services and this is likely
        to worsen in view of health effects of potentially unlimited infection cycles with no
        protections.
    • That prevalence of Long Covid may be higher than estimated: a recent WA Department of
        Health study, which is awaiting peer-review and publication, identified prevalence of Long
        COVID in highly vaccinated albeit indiscriminately Omicron-infected WA population at
        18.2%.
Recommendations

   1. That the Federal Government adopts a guiding principle recognising airborne nature
      of COVID-19, as confirmed by the World Health Organisation.
   2. That the National Cabinet develop a national plan for clean air, applicable across all
      jurisdictions. This plan should contain evidence-based policies and strategies to limit
      COVID transmission, fund research into treatments and further preventive measures,
      and provide guidance for structural change equal to that of anti-smoking campaigns.
   3. That the Department of Health and Aged Care develop a national health promotion
      strategy, in collaboration with academic researchers, consumer groups, business
      groups, unions, and other relevant stakeholders. This strategy should provide
      evidence-based information and education on prevention of COVID transmission,
      potential treatments, and updates on future research.
   4. That the federal and state governments, where applicable, mandate basic protections
      for workers and residents in childcare, education, health, clinical, disability and aged
      care settings and fund appropriate air quality control and PRE distributed by
      employers.
   5. That the National Cabinet immediately implements a strategy for more timely access
      to updated vaccines for all age groups.
   6. That the Federal Government fund distribution of adequate protection equipment to
      people who are on income support, seniors etc distributed through the community
      service sector.
   7. That the National Cabinet re-instates access to accurate PCR testing and reporting,
      and reintroduces isolation requirements.
   8. That the National Cabinet commit to data and information transparency, to enable
      individuals and organisations to better evaluate and respond to COVID-related risks.
   9. That the federal and jurisdictional governments adopt a consistent and pro-active
      approach to the pandemic, and use evidence and predictive modelling to manage risk
      and COVID ‘waves’ before case numbers accelerate uncontrollably.


Prepared by: COVID Statistics and Information WA group
