Submission for Covid 19 inquiry 2023.

My name is

ln^^^^^2022 I had my third Pfizer vaccination. Within 4-5 minutes I began to get a
"buzz" feeling on the left side of my face and became weak on my left side. I went back into
the doctor's surgery and they monitored me for 30 minutes. The buzz became stronger to
cover the left side of my head. I continued to have weakness down the left arm and then
down the left leg. The Doctors surgery rang and ambulance and sent me
hospital for a suspected stroke.

I waited in emergency for 5 hours and eventually was seen by a doctor who ruled out a
stroke and said this is a common vaccination reaction and should go away in a few weeks.
Go home.

The weakness on my left side stayed for a few weeks. I would dribble out of the corner of my
mouth due to facial weakness. Headaches on the left side of my head and fuzzy thinking
were common. I went back to my doctor and asked for a referral to a neurologist and they
recommended an MRI.

The MRI come back and it took four months to get an appointment with the neurologist.
He said there were no signs of a stroke and it must be anxiety as there are no such reactions
to vaccination. Go home and rest.

I reported it to the government. They recommended seeking compensation but it was
classified as an anxiety response so no compensation was available.

I went to acupuncture which did relieve the symptoms for a short time. It seemed to settle
the nerve buzz down but it would always come back.

I went to a different doctor for a second opinion from a different neurologist. The nerve
feeling on the side of my face and dribble from my weakened facial muscles continued.
Intermittent headaches and weakness on the left side continued.

In ^^^^M2022 I saw my second neurologist who on visually looking at me said "I can see
it in your face. The left side is drooped. There is no faking that." He sees it all the time and
has nicknamed it Pfizer face. Sadly there is nothing he can do as there are no tests or
explanations as to why it happens.




The headaches have now intensified and they last longer. Up to 6 weeks. My face has
become distorted on the left side. As a lot of my job is^^^^^^^^Hand in public I feel
very self-conscious. I will attach a photo of my face looking very different on the left to the
right.
My local member wrote a letter to the government for me. They responded by saying it was
a Pfizer issue. Pfizer replied with - there is no such reaction from our trials so it must be my
own underlying problems that caused it.

Now - over 18. Months later I still get severe headaches and dribble. The nerve "buzz" on
the left side of my face is annoying and constant. There is no help out there to research or
help relieve this neuralgia. It is just in the too hard basket for everyone. I would have
thought I would be turned into a guinea pig and researched like crazy to try to figure it out
but it is the opposite. Go home is the best response I get.

I would really love to investigate the relationship of the vaccine
             I think it would be extremely beneficial to the^^^^fcommunity. But
sadly most doctors and specialists see the word Vaccine and run for the hills. The
main advice given is go home, it will go away. Well it is almost two years and it has
not gone away.

I am not anti-vaxer - it was my third vaccine. I had done everything I could to assist
the government in their goals for containing covid. The lack of support is very
disappointing and frustrating.

Now it is an inquiry that will take years to investigate - while I continue for years with
this debilitating condition. Still without any help or research into my situation.

I hope while you guys are pontificating about the responses that some ACTIONS will
begin.

Thanks
