                                                                                   15th December 2023
                                                                                        David Lawson




COVID-19Inquiry@pmc.gov.au


Dear Sir/Madam,

Re: Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry

I make this submission in my capacity as a concerned citizen of Australi a. In the last 23 years I
have worked as a counsellor and life coach for large NGOs and since 2012 in my own private
practice.

This submission is allowed to be put in the public domain.

My client base ranges from women fleeing domestic violence, employees being bullied by their
manager and/or employer, managers defending themselves from false allegations, individuals
losing their jobs from Covid Mandates or from Covid-19 vaccine injuries.

I wish to address the inconsistencies in Health Directives issued by the Queensland Government in
relation to my business and profession.

For personal health reasons (including having had several adverse reactions to common prescribed
drugs) I chose not to be vaccinated with the COVID 19 vaccine.

In December 2021 the Queensland Government issued a Health Directive that said from 15th
December 2021 I was no longer able to see clients in person unless I was vaccinated. I was not
allowed to talk to my clients by phone or zoom from my office (it was considered under the Directive
to be a health facility) but was able to talk to them from my home.

To not comply was a fine of $13750 and/or 6 months jail under criminal law.

In March 2022 the Directive was modified and I was able to talk to my clients by phone or zoom
from my office as long as there was no one else in the building. At that time, I was the only person
working in my building and I faced jail time if my wife came to see me while I was talking to a client
by phone or zoom.

In September 2022 I was allowed to start seeing people in person again.

However, as part of the Directive issued in December 2021,1 was not allowed at all to talk to clients
funded by the NDIS - in person by phone or by zoom.
The point I am making is not that I was not allowed to talk to people in person, but the implications
that:

    1. Talking to clients from my office by phone or zoom was illegal, but to do so from home was
       okay.

   2.      Someone funded by the NDIS could catch COVID from me via a phone or zoom call.

It is disappointing that the Queensland Government made decisions regarding their health directives
on what could only be called a whim, not on solid scientific evidence.

As a result of my experiences during this period, I urge the inquiry that any future nation-wide
responses be based on solid scientific evidence and those making those decisions very clearly show
the evidence that supports the decision/s being made and that those decisions also are reviewed
regularly to ensure they are based on sound scientific evidence.

In short, no-where have I found any evidence that says Covid 19 can be transmitted by phone or by
zoom - BUT the Queensland Government had a health directive in place that suggested otherwise!

Yours Sincerely,




David Lawson Concerned
Citizen
