Australian Government.                                             Dec 13, 2023
Department of Prime Minister and Cabernet
Submissions and evidence to the Covid-19 Response Inquiry


I have been an Endorsed Enrolled nurse since 2007 and previously to that I worked as a healthcare worker in aged care.
I was dismissed from the public residential aged care facility where I was employed on 22/2/2022, for failing to receive Covid 19 vaccinations and therefore
" failing to meet the requirements of the public health orders"
Many people are unaware that in Victoria where I reside, the mandates for those working in healthcare still continue to this day. I am unable to return to nursing
unless I have 3 Covid-19 vaccinations. I have been forced into early retirement and living off my superannuation.
Eight staff members were dismissed from the small aged care facility where I was employed. Four of these were Registered Nurses, one with 40 years
experience.The care at the facility has been severely compromised with the dismissal of so many staff members and some unqualified staff employed to replace
them.
It is difficult even now, to believe that I have lost my nursing career that I trained so long and hard for. The psychological damage will be with me and many
others for our lifetime.
Given that the healthcare industry is so short staffed (in crisis actually) why can't unvaccinated staff return to their former employment?
Natural immunity or prior SARS Covid 2 infection were not considered.
I have never even caught the covid 19 virus that I'm aware of.
It has now been proved that the Covid -19 vaccinations
-Don't stop transmission, infection, hospitalisation or death against covid-19.
It was a vaccine failure. MRNA technology that was rushed out without any long term data or risk analysis provided. Perhaps this is why Pfizer didn't want their
documents and data released for over 75 years.
Our former Premier Daniel Andrew's, once stated at a press conference that this was the " Pandemic of the Unvaccinated " This type of rhetoric has caused
discriminations, prejudice and the division between family and friends to those who chose to be unvaccinated. We were labelled " anti vaxxers " by the media.
For the record, I have had vaccines all my life. Just not MRNA vaccines.
Neither the mainstream media or our government to this day, report on vaccine injuries or deaths or where victims can get help. This has lead to under reporting.
Compensation is very difficult to access. Doctors have been "gagged" and are afraid to tell patients that they are possibly vaccine injured for fear of
repercussions/ suspension from AHPRA. Other doctors were suspended from practicing because they gave vaccine exemptions to their patients or prescribed
ivermectin to treat the virus. Why did the TGA ban doctors from prescribing Ivermectin? A drug which won the 2015 Nobel prize and is known to be safe and
effective , but labelled by media as a "horse dewormer" Hydroxychloroquine was another drug banned but known to treat the virus effectively. There has and
continues to be extraordinary excess deaths (ABS) in Australia since these vaccinations were introduced. Let's look into this!
Having worked in healthcare for many years, we were alway understanding of those who had the right to refuse medical treatment. This is also in our Federal
Constitution, The Australian Immunisation handbook and the Nuremberg Code. That valid legal consent must be given voluntary in the absence of undue
pressure, coercion or manipulation. We should all have the right and freedom to choose our own medical interventions without fear and discrimination.
The mandates have been a violation of human rights.
The mainstream media have a lot to answer for. And our governments censorship . Instilling fear into the population to pressure people to get the covid vaccines.
Overstating the efficacy of the vaccines. (Get the jab to keep grandma safe) Daily press conferences by our premiers .leaders, so called health experts to tell of
increasing covid numbers and deaths. Brainwashing.
I know many had to submit to having the covid 19 vaccines without wanting to, simply to keep their employment. To keep food on the table and to enjoy some of
the social freedoms denied to the unvaccinated. I found it even difficult to access health care myself. Unvaccinated were segregated and excluded from all
aspects of society. The only place I could go was to the supermarket.
Victoria had the longest lockdown during the pandemic in the western world.
We saw our citizens under curfew, being fired upon with rubber bullets, projectile weapons and tear gas by riot police. This was atrocious, a complete overreach
of power under the guise of emergency pandemic orders.
The former federal Liberal government pledged 2 billion dollars to build a Moderna factory in Victoria. Yet we have a world renowned, expert vaccine developer
here in Australia. I'm referring to Professor Nikolai Petrovsky and his company Vaxine Pty Ltd, who over the last 20 years have developed many vaccines and
immunotherapies, including a covid 19 PROTEIN based vaccine called Covax-19. Why wasn't this vaccine available here in Australia?
In conclusion, I believe that if the past and present governments have nothing to hide, then why doesn't a Royal Commission-into the pandemic response be
held? Open disclosure from witnesses without fear of retribution.
There should be no further future lockdowns, mandates of masks or vaccinations,no border closures of any kind, no curfews, no travel limits, no QR codes or
contact tracing of any sort.
Don't make employers be responsible for having to collect their employees personal and private medical information . ( vaccination status)
The contracts between the big pharmaceutical companies and our government should be available for public scrutiny.
There should have beeen more focus on early treatment protocols, (especially for those at high risk) prevention strategies and healthy lifestyle.
STOP immediately recommending that our children be given MRNA vaccines.
They are the future of this country. No one knows the long term effects of this " world wide trial" of these vaccines.
Support Australian Professor Petrovsky's company Vaxine instead of overseas big pharmaceutical companies.
Make appropriate compensation readily available to those victims of adverse effects and death from covid 19 vaccines. They have been left with little or no
support from healthcare officials and our governments.
We need open and honest transparency from our government.
Not to be governed by a WHO pandemic treaty or any alliance with WEF.
Thank you for taking the time to read my submission
