I am Dr Philip Bradfield STOWELL MB BS (London) FACNEM.

My address is




Email

Phone

I have been a General Medical Practitioner since 1978, firstly in the UK, where I trained and qualified
at St Thomas' Hospital Medical School, London University in 1977.

I emigrated to Australia in^^B worked as a locum for 3 yrs or so and then, having earned a
Fellowship of the Australian (later Australasian) College of Nutrition and Environmental Medicine in
1990, set up my own General Practice with a special interest

SUBMISSION

From the immediate outset in Dec 2019/Jan 2020 I have been appalled and ashamed by the national
(and international), institutional, social, bureaucratic and professional responses to the so called
Covid 19 Pandemic. They have all been short sighted, unscientific, ineffective, thoughtless, lacking
any common sense, clinically dangerous, morally derelict and in my opinion, with nefarious covert
underlying intent.

NO PANDEMIC. DEFINITION CHANGES TO SUIT

If you look at the real-world death data in any country worldwide there has actually been no
pandemic in terms that have been understood for decades until 2019. At around that time the WHO
changed the definition of a pandemic and that of a 'vaccine' to suit their new ideas of control of
global health and the development of mRNA product that is, by all accounts and definitions, truly a



In their daily updates the spokespeople reported daily case numbers as though they were relevant to
anything. Case numbers simply reflected positive PCR tests not true infections. The PCR test is
specifically not recommended as a means of diagnosis.

The PCR tests were also conducted in such a way that the results grossly exaggerated the real spread
of any infection. The advice with PCR testing is not to go beyond 25 cycles (although some even say
20 cycles); however, the Australian labs conducted the test over 40 cycles and this all but guarantees
a POSITIVE but CLINICALLY IRRELEVANT result.

The recording of Covid case numbers was misrepresenting the health of patients; at that time anyone
presenting to hospitals was PCR tested even for example if they were attending for a broken leg.
Clearly in such a patient a PCR positive test result is irrelevant to the reason for presentation, yet it is
recorded and reported as though it was relevant to the population morbidity.

DODGEY SECRET DEALS

The government has spent billions of the tax-payers money for a new product that is now clearly
proving itself to be both ineffective and dangerous. The contracts signed on our behalf are secret and
provide absolute medicolegal immunity for the manufacturers. Pfizer also wanted to hide all its
research data from the public for 75 years, happily prevented by the courts in the USA. This is
opaque behaviour and it seeks to circumvent accountability and avoids any transparency

One question - WHY?

INEFFECTIVE NEW UNTESTED AND DANGEROUS GENE THERAPY - INACCURATELY CALLED A VACCINE
AND CONTAMIINATED

The mRNA product which should most accurately be described as "a modified RNA gene therapy"
because a uridine molecule in the RNA has been intentionally replaced by a pseudo-uridine which
significantly alters its action and survivability in the body compared to mRNA. It is quite incorrect to
refer to it as a vaccine in the historical understanding of the word, and it is now known to be

unable to prevent transmission,

unable to prevent infection, and is

associated with an astonishing rate of side effects and sequelae including but not limited to

        depression of the immune system,

        menstrual disorders

        erectile dysfunction

        the acceleration or re-awakening of previously quiescent cancers,

        auto-immune disease,

        myocarditis,

        neurotoxic syndromes and

        death, https://kirschsubstack.eom/p/bhakdiburkhardt-pathology-results

        This is a telling and terrifying report and is worth reading completely




Some estimates have calculated that possibly up to 1:1000 injections are closely associated with
death, https://kirschsubstack.eom/p/vaers-data-is-crystal-clear-the-covid

Recently the quality and purity of these products has been brought into focus.

There is unexplained variability in the contents of different batches and very worryingly and in
particular there has been widespread evidence of DNA contamination of most of the batches at
levels up to 500 % of the allowable limits. This threatens the integrity of the individual make up of
the DNA in each person's body and theoretically amounts to genetic engineering, again without
informed consent.

EXCESS DEATHS SINCE "VACCINE" ROLLOUT

Around the world, since the roll out of the illegally enforced vaccination program there has been an
excess death rate of between 12 and 25%. For some reasons that have not been explained these
deaths are not being investigated. All that we hear is "It cannot be the 'vaccine'" although no
explanation beyond that is forthcoming. This is illogical and unforgivable. The researchers appear
stymied by these deaths but the cause seems absolutely clear to those of us not coopted by the
narrative and who refuse to be silenced by the cancel culture that allows no scientific discussion; and
who can see elephants in the room - it's clearly due to the effects of the incompletely tested
'vaccinations'. [The data that^^^^presented from its clinical trials of this product that does not
relate to the product that they actually put into production.]

Shamefully, the Australian Government is particularly uncurious about this hugely significant number
of unusual deaths, but they are not alone, the same "I see no ships" attitude is found in the UK and
the USA and many parts of Europe. This again speaks to a global masterplan rather than simply a
local response. The same things are happening in other western democracies. The orchestrated lack
of curiosity and human care and concern is shocking to many of us.

MSM CONTROLLED AND WEAPONISED

There is a blatant and widespread 'system' of lying/misinformation by the Main Stream Media
(MSM) to maintain the official Covid narrative. This editorial control is well known but it has
obviously been strengthened of late. It was embarrassingly obvious when watching, listening to or
reading the MSM news around the world when all the presenters read from exactly the same script.

This awkward and embarrassing giveaway chorus was also observed in many politicians'
pronouncements; from the initial "we have this narrow window of opportunity..." and the sickening
"build back better" .... to the totally untrue "follow the science" or indeed "I am the science" .... and
the absurd and so frequently wrong "trust the government" and finally Jacinta Ardern's execrable
"we are the only reliable source of accurate news", or words to that effect.

Interestingly these pronouncements all came from 'graduates' of the Young Leaders political school
of the WEE run                    the author of THE GREAT RESET. This book lays out exactly what is
happening and why. It describes the whole agenda of the UN, and WEE in their grab for power and
influence globally in their Agenda 21 and 30 plans.

This Covid crisis was also practiced in advance when Johns Hopkins and the Gates Foundation staged
a high-level pandemic simulation exercise in October 2019. Event 201 posited a pandemic caused
by of all things, a Corona virus and then the assembled parties set about co-advising each other
about how best to manage it and 'control' the population through control of the media. In its blurb
Johns Hopkins stated

"15 global business, government, and public health leaders were players in the simulation exercise
that highlighted unresolved real-world policy and economic issues that could be solved with sufficient
political will, financial investment, and attention now and in the future."

DERELICTION OF DUTY

There has been a gross dereliction of duty from all levels of our society,

    a)       the Parliament, both government and
    b)   the opposition, who failed to have any sort of parliamentary discussion, and who meekly or
         enthuisiastically allowed the government to bring in any and every policies it wanted to.
    c)   the TGA - who didn't even assess the appallingly inadequate and misleading information
         submitted by the drug companies - they just accepted what the USA did, and by their own
         admission didn't read or critique the research data
    d)   the MSM, who used to act as a 4th Estate and served to keep public checks on the activity of
         government and alphabet agencies, are now simply prerecorded mouthpieces for "The
         Official Narrative". True investigative journalism has been almost completely suppressed
    e)   the doctors, most of whom, took the morally dubious but safe route of surrendering their
         professional principles to do what the government in its medical wisdom told them to do,
         have also surrendered their moral integrity, professional wisdom, knowledge and experience
         to AHPRA's campaign of fear and intimidation, "If you speak up, question or provide
         exemptions you will be disciplined". Their compliance was understandable for the very
         economic survival of their families, such was the threat to comply

HOWEVER, this action by AHPRA is rather at odds with their mission.

AHPRA is set up to protect the public from the 'excesses' of the medical industry; what they have
actually done is to pick on, suspend and or discipline the very doctors who were actually using their
brains, their training and knowledge of the body, to caution their patients, to wait and see how the
gene therapy vaccine actually works in practice before agreeing to have an injection. This is and was
normal professional caution invoking The Precautionary Principle that is now so annoying for those
who want a fast track a therapy to product release and profit.

AHPRA should have been cautioning the doctors who betrayed their professional responsibilities by
actually giving out these ineffective and dangerous shots. These are the people, if any who should
have been contacted and cautioned.

I say this because any doctors or nurses must have obtained INFORMED CONSENT before giving any
medication and as we still don't fully know the extent of the damage caused by having one or more
of these injections, we still cannot be sure of informed consent; not least because we now know that
the data                 in and submitted from their trials did not relate to the actual product
delivered.

GENE THERAPY SEQUELAE

The injections have been followed by the highest number of reports of harm and of death of any
vaccine in the history of medicine. Indeed, the numbers of side effects and harm reported of this one
product exceed all the reports of harm and death from all vaccines in history. In and of itself this
should have triggered an immediate recall and an immediate cessation of the 'vaccine program'.

In the past and indeed even recently with regard to one canine veterinary product, just 1 death was
enough to withdraw a new product from the market or even further development.

Expert doctors around the world have been calling repeatedly for these gene treatments to be
withdrawn, but there has been a coincident and huge increase in the numbers of bureaucrats,
politicians and doctors who have all become DISHONOURABLY and PROFESSIONALLY DEAF.

FACTS

Test kits for Covidl9 were available for purchase in 2018 - make of that what you will.

The scientific community has tried to patent the Corona virus and in so doing has broken the laws
concerning genetic experimentation and bioweapons.

The true infection fatality rate (IFR) for Covid is no worse than the flu in most age groups.

The young have NO vulnerability to COVID. It is really only affects old with multiple health problems.

The injections are NOW PROVEN USELESS for what they were intended to do i.e. to prevent spread,
prevent infection, reduce hospitalisations or improve immunity etc.
We now know that mask wearing actually increases the risk of Covid by about 40% .

Lockdowns were the most iniquitous example of intrusion into personal freedoms and of
government over reach. They have had very serious psychological, social and educational sequelae
on our most precious members of society, our children, the worlds future. The extent of this damage
is almost impossible to estimate.

Social distancing of 2 m was simply an idea someone grabbed from the 'blue'.

The government spent 15 BILLION DOLLARS (AUD $ 15,000,000,000.00) on these 'vaccines' and etc.
That is over AUD $530 for each taxpayer.

The government purchased over 250,000,000 doses, enough for each of us to have 10 shots!!! So
much for trust in an effective 'vaccine' Approximately 50% of these have had to be discarded. That in
itself amounts to throwing 7.5 billion dollars directly at the pharmaceutical industry.

For those injured by the 'vaccine' there is supposed to be an easy access compensation scheme,
but it is not working; the criteria for payout all but deny such injuries exist and that the process
involved in the application is onerous and unnecessarily complex. It is particularly hard to achieve
just compensation for injuries when all the agencies involved refuse to assess the data and simply
close their eyes to the numerous reports and actual evidence, while at the same time parroting the
"Its safe and effective" mantra which is completely untrue.

Evidence of harm from rRNA products: - 80 screens worth of research papers

https://community.covidvaccineinjuries.com/compilation-peer-reviewed-medical-papers-of-covid-
vaccine-injuries/




The questions that are important for the enquiry to consider, investigate and provide advice about
are

      1)   When have you ever heard of all western governments talking with a single voice and using
           the same script. What are the conclusions to be drawn from this fact, does it suggest an
           overarching and previously planned script? Why did the opposition not expose this?


      2)   Why did the government IMMEDIATELY swallow the obvious pathetically overdramatic hype
           of the media from China showing people collapsing in the street. Why did they then
           steadfastly set about spreading fear to the population as a whole, rather than investigating
           the events in a measured and openly scientific way; something that continues to this day.


      3)   Why did the government abandon all previous well established known-to-be-effective
           plans for handling pandemics, which were sensible and not triggers for economic collapse,
           the erosion of the middle class, the threats to personal freedoms of speech, assembly and
           travel that are all core to our previously thriving democracy. Their response to Covid has
           caused all the above and more without any benefit to our health.


      4)   Why did the government spread and encourage the widespread constant daily re-iteration of
           the MSM messages of fear and alarm associated with lies about masks, social distancing and
           lockdowns and their effects on the risks of Covid.
         Normal governments seek to calm and reassure people at times of crisis.


    5)   Why was there a concerted policy that consisted of the intrusive and dangerous suppression
         of all normal health advice to the extent that two of the most effective medications for
         treating people with Covid, were summarily banned and 'slagged off'                 *
         Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine are two of the safest and cheapest drugs in
         pharmaceutical history, and they are both hugely and cheaply effective as treatments.


    6)   Even the advice to take extra Vitamin D was derided as ineffective, irrelevant and possibly
         dangerous. This is disgraceful restriction of human knowledge, ingenuity and resource, AND
         IT IS PLAIN WRONG.


    7)   Why was/is there any need to suppress all intelligent discussion about the so-called
         pandemic? Why do questions become so taboo, why, given this virus is described as NOVEL,
         is the government the only source of accurate information? How could it possibly be? It's an
         impossibility and the very attempt stinks of tyrannical control. Logic dictates we ask what are
         they trying to hide, and to what end?


    8)   During these times we doctors have also been repeatedly told what we can and cannot say!
         I have lived my whole life in a western liberal democracy where there is and always has been
         free speech. Excuse me for asking                                                       Such
         restrictions are the critical hints and clues to a creeping totalitarian tyranny that is becoming
         more and more obvious by the day. Please note that many of AHPRAs statements are
         deceptively bland and duplicitous. Doctors are very frightened by AHPRA and its power and
         recent arrogantly intrusive behaviour.


    9)   Whatever happened to bodily autonomy? When did the government get the authority to
         decide what medical treatments each of us has to undergo?



I believe that, in our response to the "pandemic", we as a country and as individual states have
disgraced ourselves; the economy and social structures, local and national, have all been damaged.
The economy has been forcibly changed in ways that make it difficult to recover, all by attempting to
adhere to some sort of agreed script prepared in advance, that in no way serves the average
Australian.

Soley and severally, our agencies and institutions have abandoned any pretense at integrity,
democratic principles of debate and freedom, and still seek to portray themselves to us as highly
informed, and as our saviours, while blatantly excluding a growing database of evidence that
contradicts everything they said in public and did behind closed doors.

*1 posed the question in para 5 above, why was there a policy to denigrate Ivermectin and
Hydroxychloroquine? The answer Is simple and at the same time disgraceful and it reflects on the
Authorities moral deceit through inaccurate manipulation of, and lying about the data



         IF THESE DRUGS HAD NOT BEEN BANNED THEN THE GENE THERAPY ('vaccines') COULD NOT
         LEGALLY HAVE BEEN GRANTED AN EMERGENCY USE AUTHORISATION (EUA).
         EUAs CAN ONLY BE ISSUED IF THERE IS NO OTHER EXISTING EFFECTIVE THERAPY AVAILABLE.
        Making Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine unavailable and by telling Drs they are suddenly
        and summarily NOT ALLOWED TO PRESCRIBE THEM FOR SUSPECTED COVID, meant that the
        conditions of no alternative effective treatment existed III Therefore . . .
        I)    The EUAs could be issued and the gene therapy released onto an unsuspecting and then
              incorrectly informed public. I wonder if in retrospect, lying about the existence of
              effective therapies and then banning them could be seen as a fraud or deception, if that
              is so then perhaps the EUAs themselves become illegal.
        II)   Many hundreds or thousands or people were immediately deprived of rapidly effective
              treatment which would have kept them alive and out of hospital. This would have
              avoided the patients' exposure to inappropriate ventilation, remdesivir, the highly
              ineffective 'antiviral' that costs thousands of dollars, or the respiratory depressive effects
              of Midazolam that was prescribed so readily in Nursing Homes.
        Ill) despite having received many letters from highly qualified experts advocating nutritional
              support for the immune system - such as Vitamins C D and Zinc - the government and
              health advisors around Australia have consistently and completely ignored the
              information, and have refused to pass on this health and life-saving advice



ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES

IF WE HAD DONE ABSOLUTELY NOTHING AT ALL AS A COUNTRY = No masks, No social distancing,
No lockdowns and No restrictions to gatherings or travel and particularly No injections; had we
allowed doctors to behave normally and prescribe freely and provide safe advice to protect the
vulnerable, the frail elderly, that our people would barely have noticed any difference from a
normally severe flu season.

For evidence of this look first at the experience of the AMISH. A religious community who live simply,
eat well work hard and don't vaccinate. Covid barely touched their community. They had no
particular problems at all and very few excess deaths.

Then look at the excess death rates in countries with low 'vaccination' rates, particularly those in
Africa. The countries with low vaccination rates have low excess deaths and far fewer adverse events
in general.

As a consequence of embracing the 'vaccine solution' to the hugely exaggerated risk of Covid so
completely and shortsightedly, our agencies, professionals, politicians and bureaucrats have all
abandoned common sense and have consequently and totally unnecessarily damaged the social,
financial, political, spiritual and economic health of all Australians very severely.




LASTLY - This enquiry is clearly not designed to achieve a comprehensive oversight of the last 4 yrs.
Its terms of reference are far too narrow to get an accurate picture of what has been foisted upon us
all. You simply cannot ignore the global picture, nor the different approaches adopted in each of our
states and territories. To do so is more of the same cherry-picking censorship that I have alluded to
throughout this submission and will ultimately backfire...

All the changes in our world that have eventuated so far have been pushed by the globalists, the
UN, the Gates Foundations and the WEF among others. They have been foretold since the 1970s,
and are described in detail in many documents not least of which is^^^^^^^A/EF book "The Great
Reset". These plans are now coming to fruition and a full and free Royal Commission is therefore
urgently needed to look at all the relevant events and responses of the last 3-4 (or should it be 50)
years for the sake of the ordinary Australian.




SUMMARY

The Australian response to Covid SARSCovl9 has been destructive in almost every sense.

The people's faith in our institutions, from the Government and Opposition, the TGA, AHPRA has
been deeply eroded

by the repeated lies told by their talking heads and spokespersons,

by their attempts to control every aspect of discourse in the MSM,

by their dereliction of their real duties to fully and independently assess and safeguard the health
and well-being of the nation,

by their targeting, denigration and unjust disciplining of Dr's and Nurse's for what used to be
normal professional behaviour of anyone wanting to discuss any aspect of the scenario over the last
3-4 yrs, by their blatant and outright actions specifically infringing their basic democratic freedoms of
choice, speech, assembly and travel

by the unscientific insistence - verging on compulsion, because TRUE INFORMED CONSENT was and
is not achievable - that in order to do work, or travel interstate, see relatives, even keep their jobs
everyone must have had an experimental new pharmaceutical product with no proper safety data
to support its use, that could only be released onto the market because the agencies lied about the
existence of effective alternative treatments.

by ignoring and steadfastly failing to investigate the ever-increasing evidence that these products are
of poor quality and are significantly contaminated.

Then when things start going wrong and when sensible people would stop, sit back and gather data
and then discuss the problem fully, they double down on their untenable position, ignoring the
widespread suffering, disease and deaths that are all around us and unexplained.

The whole response in retrospect feels a bit like a local dramatic society performance of a play whose
text and meaning they don't fully understand but has been forced upon them where the actors have
not quite learned their lines but the performance must go on regardless. The writers and directors of
this performance are nowhere to be seen but their influence is everywhere, and the damage to the
theatre company is of absolutely no concern to them.

We need unrestricted openness, honesty, transparency and a dogged curiosity to properly assess the
events, consequences and mistakes of the last 4 yrs. Accountability and responsibility for the damage
inflicted on Australia cannot be avoided by resignation. The full weight of the law is going to needed
to ensure that none of this can happen again.

NUREMBERG

It was thought that Nuremberg 1 had achieved clarity on the rules surrounding any use of
experimental treatments without informed consent. But now we find that governments and other
bodies are riding roughshod over the Nuremberg determinations by simply ignoring them.
I shall consider very carefully whether I will or will not be complying with any government directives
about my health in the future, until and unless all infringements on our god given rights and liberties
(of choice speech movement, travel and assembly) are removed and until the tyrannical restrictions
on doctors' clinical freedom and discussion are permanently removed, and that every possible legal
instrument is in place to prevent any of these examples of government and bureaucratic overreach
ever happening again.

In support of this submission may I refer you to the work of the following independent and highly
experienced researchers who have enormous expertise at the coalface of clinical medicine, in clinical
research and product development, or data analysis. They cannot be silenced by the cancel culture
or invocation of the 'official narrative'. They also speak with obvious truth as they are all open to
discussion; something the government is quite unwilling to do.

Australian Medical Network - formerly Covid Medical Network - Australian Health Professionals
with integrity.

                       - Cardiologist who has a regular Covid etc relevant podcast

                  https://podcasts.apple.com/au/podcast/the-mccullough-report/idl562849542 -

                  President of the Frontline COVID-19 Critical Care Alliance (FLCCC)- Emergency
Physician

Dr                   - ex Pfizer executive

Dr                - - researcher and lawyer

                  His most concise and comprehensive video presentation about Covid as a whole is
                  on https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mfLycFHBsro
                  and his contribution starts at 1 m in30

             - data analysis, entrepreneur and founder of the Vaccine Safety Research Foundation



Dr                  - retired pharmacist

https://totalitvofevidence.com/dr-

                  Most recently he published his list of governmental failures that I entirely agree with
OR SOMETHING ELSE




15.12.2023
