After reviewing the often-censored information, I realised that I was not at risk of severe outcomes
from COVID and decided against the COVID jab. Due to the vaccine mandate, I was not able to
attend some places, especially my workplace. I decided to live off my savings while waiting for the
truth to prevail. I had COVID and was well-prepared with vitamins etc. - it wasn't worse than the
cold/flu. I do not believe I had any recurrence of COVID ever since. I have heard so many young
healthy people suddenly suffering serious health issues like myocarditis after taking the COVID jab. I
do not regret my decision.

The scope of this inquiry excludes actions taken unilaterally by state and territory governments.
However, most of the government handling of COVID was abdicated to state governments,
therefore this inquiry is unable to address the important issues. Nevertheless, the federal
government should have taken more leadership over the COVID response. The federal government
response to COVID was unprincipled and massively failed to minimise the damage to public health
and the national economy. The government COVID messaging encouraged mass panic and was
essentially vaccine propaganda.
Why wasn't natural immunity encouraged for young healthy people who are not at risk? Natural
immunity was not even acknowledged. Why didn't the government advocate for basic healthy
lifestyle habits like healthy eating, vitamins, exercise etc.?
Why weren't safe, effective, cheap, readily available generic drugs like Ivermectin permitted for
treating COVID?
Why did the TGA approve "vaccines" that did not go through the standard rigorous trials? The TGA
surely knew that these experimental "vaccines" would be mandated for many people. Why wasn't
there informed consent regarding the experimental COVID jabs?
Why did the federal government risk so much taxpayer money on these experimental jabs that
turned out to be neither effective nor safe?
How could the federal government allow basic human rights like bodily autonomy and freedom of
movement to be violated on such a large scale?
COVID isn't really new. Back in the early 2000s, was there not a threat of SARS? Didn't Tony Abbott
develop a plan to manage such a situation?
