Dr Karina Powers Occupational and Environmental Physician MBBS MPH PG rad Dip Occ
Hlth & Sfty FAFOEM (RACP) (qualified experienced specialist consultant medical physician
expert in safety and health of workforce and worksites)

1. Critical delay in advice from Commonwealth or State Health regarding home
quarantine. The delay was such that school principals were themselves assessing the
evident risk and outlining parameters for the impending return of their students for the
start of the school year 2020, advice that in retrospect was largely appropriate. The risk
of asymptomatic airborne transmission was evident in early data out of China and also
accessible on WHO site in January 2020 at the time (footnote to WHO table published
mentioned asymptomatic 2 year old child with bilateral pneumonia on scan) and from
previous SARS knowledge. Our Commonwealth health department did not act in an
adequate precautionary timely way for community needs. The delay in appropriate advice
resulted in changing and confusing instructions for Australian students and their
guardians. The late acknowledgement of airborne transmission caused unnecessary
stress and wasted professional time wrangling over multiple versions of health guidelines
of various types across the community, not only for education but for other industry and
health silos.

***For our health departments to act in a more timely and effective way for these
catastrophic risk events, broad diverse gender and ethnic group representation to
advise Commonwealth and State is imperative. ***

2. No timely practical logistics support to accompany Commonwealth Health advice. In a
28 January 2020 email from RACP, I received from the Chief Medical Officer of Australia
dated 26 January 2019, asking for assistance to identify new cases of novel Corona virus
infection, there were four confirmed cases in Australia. The letter stated "25% of cases
have severe disease... it is not known how infective people are before symptoms
develop..."
Doctors who are not working in hospitals had no way of reliably accessing respirators as
they were sold out. The relatively late limited supply of inferior masks to GPs (for many
they were not respirators such as needed for superior protection for pandemic airborne
viral disease protection or bioterrorism viral attack), did not include out of hospital
doctors such as specialists in private practice. These specialist doctors provide a
significant amount of medical care to the community and whose loss from the workforce
due to pandemic disease would have had catastrophic impact on the community.

***Out of hospital doctors who are not GPs are an important subgroup providing
medical care for which logistics of support in pandemics MUST be planned and provided
for by government***
3. ***l recommend that the current inquiry panel co-opts advice from qualified medical
doctors and virologists for review of the submissions*** as I note that the current panel
members are not qualified in medicine nor are they virologists and important learnings
may well be lost or underappreciated.
