Commonwealth Government COVID-19 Response Inquiry
The Covid era from March 2020 to present has stomped all over individual rights and
freedoms that I thought as a free democratic country were inalienable. I was shocked to see
just how far governments could go and did go in taking away individual rights and freedoms,
banning medications, and forcing people to take vaccines against their wishes.

The Federal governments inaction over lockdowns and boarder closures have caused
irreversible damage and death. The mental health and psychological harm of these
inhumane interventions is ongoing. Boarder closures caused irreversible and unnecessary
harm. A baby died in August 2020 due to a boarder closure between Queensland and New
South Wales. Currently Australia is seeing skyrocketing mental health issues, increase in
substance abuse, and an increase in school refusal, all linking back to the response to covid-
19. The fact the Federal government sat back and did nothing to prevent this should be a
topic of the inquiry. As should the amount of harm these inhumane interventions caused.

The forming of the National Cabinet was a cause of serious concern. The secrecy of the
national cabinet undermines public trust and accountability of the government. To this day
the minutes of these meetings have not been released, a cause of serious concern that
should be investigated.

The Federal government by its silence supported the vaccine mandates implemented by the
states. These vaccine mandates violate human rights and the Nuremburg code. The fact that
the Federal government did nothing while state governments violated people's bodily
autonomy is horrifying. The fact that these vaccines were rushed onto the market with poor
safety studies and no investigation into the impact of its gene therapy component makes it
even worse. As far as I am aware the amount of harm caused by these vaccines is still
unknown and has not been investigated. How states were able to mandate a vaccine that's
risk was unknown and didn't even stop transmission should also be investigated.

The banning of effective treatments such as ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine still
astounds me, and I hope there is a thorough investigation into why such safe and effective
treatments were banned and ridiculed. Also for inquiry is the silencing of debate of doctors
and qualified professionals. Why was there only one narrative that all doctors had to stand
by?

The main question of the inquiry should be, was the repones to the Covid-19 pandemic
justified. Did the interventions cause less harm or more harm than the virus? What was the
overall psychological, social, and financial harm of these interventions.

I hope this inquiry is robust and thorough in their investigation, I hope there are a lot of
lessons learned in what did and did not work well for the people of Australia. It is my hope
that if there is another pandemic there would be much more debate and risk assessment
done before any interventions were forced onto the citizens of Australia.

Thank you
